My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, is in relation to the conference planned for May this year to discuss the Australian Assistance Plan. Who is to attend this conference? Is it to be confined to members of regional councils for social development and officers of the department concerned and of local government? What consideration has been given to making it possible for members of Parliament to attend this conference and improve their understanding of how this program is functioning and how it might be improved? 

 - Mr President, I am honoured to be able to congratulate you on your election to the highest office in this Parliament. I feel privileged to serve under your guidance, and I would like to thank you for your personal help during my first weeks in this chamber. I also would like to congratulate  Senator Drake-Brockman  on his election as the  Chairman  of Committees. I believe that I am the last of the newly elected senators to make a maiden speech, and I have a more difficult task as I am following a series of excellent speeches given by the newly elected senators. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate them on the contributions they have made to this chamber. There are moments in a person's life which are never forgotten, moments which remain in one's memory for ever and which are usually those when one feels most humble and at the same time proud. Such a moment for me was my election and admittance to this chamber which, according to the  Clerk  of the Senate,  Mr Odgers,  is one of the most powerful upper Houses in the world. That was the proudest moment in my life, and I am convinced that it was at the same time a proud moment for every newcomer to this country. It was also a moment of recognition of the fact that Australia is a country of a fair go, a fair go for everyone, regardless of his origin, a country which millions of migrants like myself have adopted as their home and as the home of their children and their children's children. 
My first recollection of Australia goes back to my school days. A professor of geography who insisted that we learn the official name of each country we were studying told us that Australia's proper name was the Commonwealth of Australia. The whole class- all of us, who had never heard an English word before, and particularly something like Commonwealthlaughed. Those close to the professor were showered by his pronunciation of th something which I am still not able to pronounce properly and most probably never will. The Commonwealth of Australia became my choice and my adopted homeland. We all know that the word Commonwealth' describes an idea which embodies a whole philosophy- wellbeing for everyone, regardless of origin or class. According to Hobbes'  Leviathan  a Commonwealth arises as a result of a group of equal and free individuals abdicating some of their rights, powers and freedoms in favour of a single body, in return for certain safeguards which singly they could not provide for themselves. As an example, collective defence of property is better than individual defence. 
In the context of the Australian Commonwealth, the parallel occurred when the individual States abdicated certain of their rights and transferred them to a single separate body, namely the Federal government. In all such contracts the interests of all parties, both the weakest and the strongest, should be protected. The creation of the Senate, a House where the States are represented equally, helps to ensure this. Further, that a State is small in population does not mean that its contribution to the wealth and growth of the country is less. As senators, our job is to ensure that the interests of the States are both promoted and protected in the processes of government in this Federal sphere. One of the fundamental determinants of the prosperity of all States is the Federal Government's management of Australian resources. In the development of any country, resource endowment is of critical importance, and one of a country's primary resources is its population. This factor constitutes a variable in all growth equations and considerations. To determine an appropriate rate of population growth, let alone some ideal absolute, is a problem most developed and developing nations face, and Australia is no exception. 
Zero population growth is a trendy name and a trendy concept. I believe that Australia is approaching the critical point of zero population growth. There are many countries in the world which are envious of our success, but is it a success? Post-war growth in Australia has been declining. Our annual population growth rate since 1945 has fallen from 3 per cent to as low as 1.35 per cent in 1973. Without immigration, that low figure would have been reached a lot sooner. The factors which promote population growth fall into 2 categories. Firstly, there are what I shall term natural factors, the birth and death rates. Australia's infant mortality rate is amongst the lowest in the world. Further, life expectancy is very high. However, those factors are offset by the birth rate, which has been declining steadily since the post-war baby boom. That trend is not exclusive to Australia but is characteristic of most of the developed world. In 1971 the birth rate was 21.6 per 1000 of population, the highest since 1963. But the rate in 1972 showed a marked decline and in 1973 was down to 18.81 per 1000, the lowest rate for over 30 years. What I believe should worry all of us is that there is a likelihood of a further decline in the ensuing years. Not only will that be of social import but also its effect on the potential labour force and thus on economic growth considerations must give rise to a lot of concern. One example of the severe economic consequences will be the imbalance of the age structure within the work force. 
The second factor relating to population growth is immigration. The significance of that factor is easily seen and has been noted already. From 1788 until 1973 the population of Australia grew from some 300 000 to 13.1 million. About 35 per cent of that growth was from immigration and 65 per cent from natural increase. Directly and indirectly, immigration has been responsible for about 59 per cent of this nation's growth since 1947. It is interesting to note that the National Population Inquiry, which was commissioned by the previous LiberalCountry Party Government and conducted under the leadership of Professor Borrie, acknowledged in its report the positive nature of the contribution of immigration to Australia's economic growth. After considering the costs and benefits of immigration, the committee's final assessment was that the past benefits of immigration far outweighed the costs, especially in view of the role of immigration as a supplement to the Australian work force. The committee therefore concluded that Australia should continue its active immigration policy. 
That recommendation from the Borrie committee can be further substantiated when other benefits of immigration are considered. Migrants have brought with them many skills which constituteand I emphasise this point- a costless benefit to the Australian economy. The following figures illustrate that point: As at the 1971 census, 27 per cent of the labour force- 39 per cent of employees in the manufacturing industry, 34 per cent of architects, engineers and surveyors, 40 per cent of physics scientists, 29 per cent of doctors and dentists, and 3 1 per cent of draftsmen and technicians- were born overseas. The contribution to Australia is thus evident. Against this must be acknowledged the burden the immigration program has placed on Australia's resources. To achieve a balance we must estimate whether Australia can assimilate a further program of immigration in a social and economic context. 
The Borrie report stated that a new flow of 100 000 migrants probably would be manageable in terms of both environment and resources. But the actual figure for immigration probably will be closer to 50 000. Therefore, Australia's projected population in the year 2000 should be in the order of 17.5 million, based on both immigration and natural trends. This figure, calculated by the Borrie Committee, is in rather significant contrast to a figure of 22 million previously calculated. Borrie 's analysis thus has enormous significance because most current public and private enterprise planning is based on expectations of fertility and immigration much higher than Borrie 's. It is felt that the trends Borrie uses are not trends at all, but temporary fluctuations from a norm previously established in the 1960s. The population projections are thus considerably higher. A cursory glance at the statistics, however, seems to support Borrie 's argument that indeed we must accept a population total which probably will be some 4.5 million less than previous forecasts. 
At this stage various questions spring to mind. They fall into 2 categories. Firstly, what should be the future of expenditure and plans formulated within the framework of the previous forecasts; for example, for education, growth centres and so on? Will that expenditure be justified? Secondly, will the 1 7.5 million constitute the ideal population base for Australia in terms of resource utilisation, exploitation and the environment. If it is not appropriate, then action will have to be taken to correct this discrepancy. It will involve consideration of immigration, decentralisation and environmental policies. Long term planning will be necessary, however. If, for example, the population figure required for an effective work force is dependent on supplementation from immigration, then a plan to provide for the assessed desirable level of immigration should be formulated well in advance. 
However, before proceeding with this, I should Uke to expand on the implications of expenditure plans which were formulated using the previous forecasts. The main immediate concern in this dimension is the issue of growth centres and decentralisation policies in general. If the Borrie projections are correct, then all areas in Australia can expect lower growth rates than previously anticipated. However, the greatest relief will be experienced in the major cities, since they have absorbed more than their share of natural increase and most of the post-war immigrants. To achieve the growth centre targets -estimated populations of 300 000 for AlburyWodonga and 300 000 for BathurstOrangewould mean even greater cut-backs in the growth of Melbourne and Sydney, since the 2 largest capital cities were expected to supply most of the migrants required. However, expenditure proceeded on the basis that the figures are not correct and that the previous estimates were the correct base. Land buying, infrastructure growth and educational provisions proceeded on this basis. Review, therefore, obviously is required to rationalise this expenditure in the light of the Borrie report. Such an argument has validity. Properly planned growth centres well away from the capital cities may indeed be a viable means of providing for some of this growth. But the question is: Do the people wish to move to these new areas? This cannot be wholly supported by the statistics available. Internal migration figures do not support this assertion. Between 1954 and 1961 the population of rural areas increased by less than 3 per cent and only 17.8 per cent of Australia's population was living in rural areas. This was the lowest in Australia's history. The population of the metropolitan areas grew by 21.1 per cent between 1954 and 1 96 1. The growth centre controversy should be resolved. Official opinion, as expressed by the State and Federal governments, appears to endorse the continuance of the program at a more sensible level, particularly as regards expenditure. 
The second consideration involves a discussion of the ideal population figure for Australiaideal both in relation to resource utilisation and economic growth and in terms of the environment. What may be even more important is the quality of life. The Borrie report offers no suggestion on this matter. It only goes as far as suggesting that the figure of 17.5m should pose no problem as to economic capacity or environmental deterioration. It does not discuss the most appropriate population for Australia now or for the year 2000. The concept of an ideal population must be seen, I feel, in the framework of population distribution and concentration ratios- rural to urban populations. It is popularly asserted that urbanisation is subject to the principle of diminishing returns, and the ratio of rural to urban population in Australia is within this specification. The trend clearly is for cities to grow at a faster rate than their rural counterparts. 
However, one must cope with the fact that there is a movement from the country to the city or from smaller to larger country towns. This movement of people, who seek education and a higher standard of living, is taking place within the context of the declining position and potential of small country towns. The latter have little to offer, let alone to attract large numbers of people. A recent article in  Horizons  states: 
Future growth will depend on artificial stimulation or a discoveryofanaturalresource.Onlystimulationcangive realhope. 
If we could discover a viable means of stimulating these towns, many problems would be solved, including that of growth centres. To justify a policy of decentralisation on a basis of a deterioration of quality of life is difficult in the light of the rural to urban drift that has occurred in Australia. This lack of propensity for living in the country- reflected both in the lack of immigration of people to country areas and, moreover, in their movement to the cityperhaps reflects an ignorance of the fact that the country life is better or that the city is that bad. Perhaps a population used to living in the city is indeed urbanised and accepts the quality of life prevailing as the norm, and believes that migration to cleaner air, less noise, yet maybe fewer employment opportunities and less of the city life and activity may constitute a decline in the quality of life of those people. 
This appears to raise 2 points. Firstly, we should recreate the advantages of a city in these areas. Those advantages include cultural and economic opportunities. Secondly, we should educate people on the existence and benefits of such a move. Both seem good ideas. However, we must be careful not to recreate the disadvantages of a large city in these areas. This would be self-defeating and unjust to the previous residents of these chosen areas. 
Yet the overall trend to urbanisation, one which is caused by the historic concentration of technology and educational facilities in the major cities, is primarily responsible. The following figures prove the trend of movement from the rural areas to urban areas. In 192 1, 68 per cent of the population of New South Wales lived in the urban areas while in 1971 88 per cent of the population of New South Wales lived in urban areas. My own State of New South Wales is exemplary of all these problems and dilemmas. The trend of its population growth and the pattern of distribution of the latter indicate this fact. New South Wales is highly, and increasingly so, an urbanised State. Further, these areas constitute all the characteristics of urban sprawl. Integral to the whole decentralised program, a growth centre policy was instituted to relieve and to reverse this trend. 
I come now to the Liberal philosophy which stated that each individual has his or her free choice of what to do and where to live. That leads to the question: What should be the nature of our society? What kind of a society do we really wish to live in? Those allied to a Liberal philosophy feel that the most desirable society is one in which people's individuality is protected and promoted, where the wishes of the majority are expressed by the Government which thus serves the people. This philosophy involves a commitment to a situation of equal opportunity, a state where all individuals are free to choose, free to learn and, moreover, free to succeed. Welfare and educational policies for example are surely directed towards this end.  Mr President,  equality is not equal to happiness; such a platitudeneglects the happiness to be discovered in the pursuit of the individual, his talents and his ambitions. 
The Liberal philosophy can be applied to any problem. That already discussed- the question of population and quality of life- is just one area. The expression 'quality of life' can mean very different things to different people. Is the quality of life that quiet, serene life in a small country town or, perhaps, in a lovely homestead in the countryside? Or does quality of life mean a 2-car home with a swimming pool and evenings spent watching television, or perhaps in a club? Or does quality of life mean opera, theatre, concerts, art galleries and reading books? Each individual has his or her own set of priorities- environmental, social and so on- which must be weighed up. The role of the Government in this sense is to provide opportunities and education in respect of the existence of these facilities. 
It is important, therefore, that each individual, having a particular vision of what are his or her needs and priorities in life, can help to decide the nature of the alternative available. The latter amounts to the foundation of a certain type of society, our kind of society, not a kind of society where a small elite- an all-knowing and allpowerful elite- will tell us what is best for us.  Mr President,  you cannot fit people to a system; rather the system should fit the people. As  His Excellency  noted in his Speech: 
The Government is not concerned with power for itself. It is the servant of the Australian people. Its purpose is to work with people to create an Australian democracy, which will be an example to the world of what a free people can achieve. 

 Mr President, I commend the motion to the Senate. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact, as reported in the daily Press, that Telecom Australia is to abolish the 15c lodgment fee on phonograms and printergrams? Will Telecom Australia, by doing so, be providing a better service to users and at the same time be reducing its operating costs? Will this also save money for those Australians who use the services of the Commission? 
In directing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, I refer to various announcements relating to the cost and method of despatching telegrams. Firstly, what is the nature of the announced alterations? Secondly, why were these steps taken? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that Sydney afternoon newspapers carry a story stating that Premiers will be told at the forthcoming Premiers Conference that they can introduce their own income tax this year but will not receive any benefits until 1 July 1977? Is this double taxation a significant departure from the original scheme insofar as the 5 per cent ceiling would be removed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. It follows the question asked by  Senator Mulvihill  and concerns also the devastation which has occurred to the Friuli region of northern Italy and to the areas of Slovenia, which is my birthplace, as a result of the recent disastrous earthquake. In addition to generous financial assistance already promised to the Friuli region by the Commonwealth Government, what other help has been offered to victims of the earthquake in both countries? In particular, what arrangements are in hand or in prospect to make it possible for the victims of the disaster to come to Australia, as I was able to do 25 years ago, to make here a new and secure life? 
When listening to speakers on the other side I noted one thing which I have found continually since I joined this chamber, namely, that we constantly hear phrases like social conscience, quality of life and equal apportunity. It seems to me that members on the other side of the House reckon that they have a monopoly on social conscience and that they have a monopoly to establish quality of life. I feel that they are constantly talking about conscience as they have a guilty conscience. They have a guilty conscience because they did not do anything during their 3 years of office for those most in need. 
Socialists all over the world talk about a conscience and how aware they are of the social needs of people underprivileged in every aspect. The fact is that all their talking is nothing but a facade; it is nothing but a Potemkin village. They are trying to tell the people that there is something behind the Potemkin village, but when the people come to that Potemkin village they find nothing behind it. I am proud that I chose Australia as my new home. The Australian people have shown that they have seen through the facade of socialist jargon and socialist theatre. They showed on 13 December clearly what they think about the so-called quality of life under socialism. 
Let us look a bit afar and at the quality of life in socialist countries. Who has ever seen anyone happy in the Soviet Union? Who wants that kind of quality of life? Has any honourable senator ever been to Sweden and seen the quality of life there? Sweden has one of the highest suicide rates in the world. 
-It is a fact which the honourable senator can read in any book on Sweden today. Have honourable senators seen the quality of life in Yugoslavia? Why is it necessary for a socialist regime that practices equal opportunity to allow 600 000 to 700 000 of its men in their best ages to go to work for the capitalist exploiters? Why do these men not stay in a socialist paradise? Why do they go to western Europe to be exploited by the capitalist exploiters? There are no answers to that. These are the facts. Honourable senators opposite talk about equality of opportunity. They talk about migrants being industrial fodder. Who prevents migrants from becoming skilled tradesmen? Who else but the trade unions, the great so called protectors of the migrants? Some of them, I must admit, are very favourably inclined to migrants, but many of them hinder any migrant who has no qualifications. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I ask  Senator O'Byrne  and  Senator McAuliffe,  who are interjecting, to allow the  speaker  to proceed. 
-The point is that they do not allow migrants with skills brought from their old countries to exercise their trades and they make them industrial fodder. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I will name honourable senators if they do not keep silent. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Order! I have been asked a question.  Senator O'Byrne  did interject. I was trying to catch the word. Now that  Senator Young  has mentioned it my mind is clear that the word was fascist. I ask  Senator O  'Byrne to withdraw it. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Wood)-  Order! I have had an explanation from  Senator O'Byrne.  It is quite clear in my mind that the way in which the expression was used indicated that  Senator Lajovic  was a fascist. I ask  Senator O'Byrne  to withdraw the remark. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I am saying that he did. 
The  ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! I am giving my interpretation. As far as I am concerned, the way in which it was said clearly indicated that it was meant to refer to  Senator Lajovic. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Will you clearly deny that you intended it to refer to  Senator Lajovic? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTUnder those circumstances the request is withdrawn. 
The Government's initiative last Thursday is proof that a non-socialist government cares for people in need while the socialists only talk about it. Socialists all over the world are the same. Australian socialists are no exception. They preach an ideology which has no substance. The people realise that when the socialists get into power. The picture of that beautiful paradise about which they preach is soon shown to be not so nice. 
The increased family allowances announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and their effect on underprivileged families, I feel, are one of the most important steps that this Government or any government has taken. It will have a great effect on migrant families. The Henderson report showed clearly that migrants are one of the underprivileged classes in Australia. It is a fact that one in 4 children born in Australia after the war has at least one parent who was born overseas. If 800 000 children will benefit by the increased family allowances, that means that 200 000 children of migrants will be among them. No government has done that before. Therefore I congratulate the Fraser Government on this step. 
There is another subject about which I would like to talk, and that is the function and role of ethnic radio. Some people call it a foreign language broadcast. A very talkative journalist said in the newspapers today that we are talking in tongues. A big argument is developing about the pro and contra of ethnic radio as such. This journalist said that it is a big political blockbuster because there is a real danger of division in the Australian community. If there is division in the Australian community, it was brought about artificially by the previous Government. We did not have any divisions of class or race until the advent of the great leader who wanted to save Australia and to make Australia another socialist state. This is the field of the socialists. They want to divide everyone, to make divisions in the society. That is their objective. Ethnic radio, foreign language broadcast, or whatever it is called, is here to stay. I am sure of one thing: It will be better, and it will serve the initial purpose of setting up such stations. Many stations are broadcasting in a foreign language. 
-I believe so. An ethnic radio station performs 2 functions. The first is for migrants in general. The second, I feel, is for native Australians. I would like to speak about each function individually. The first function is for migrants. I feel that the role of ethnic radio would be directed mainly to new arrivals from overseas. They should be told in their own language about the Australian way of life, about the services which the Commonwealth Government provides and about the numerous facilities which are provided by local, State and Federal governments. I feel that the second major function of ethnic radio would be in the learning of the English language. I must criticise very strongly the Australian Broadcasting Commission which has over the last 25 years broadcast an English lesson at a quarter past six in the morning. I would like to know who has ever learnt a foreign language at a quarter past six in the morning. I feel that a certain percentage of the time allocated in ethnic radio to each ethnic community, especially for those who have arrived in Australia recently, should be devoted to the teaching of English by their country men who speak their own language. It is absolutely useless for somebody to tell a non English-speaking migrant what is a glass of water or a glass of wine. The migrant does not understand what the person is talking about. 
The third objective of ethnic radio should be to maintain the link with the Old Country. I know that there are certain gentlemen who say that there should not be any link with the Old Country. However, I would like to see such gentlemen go overseas and not know one word of the language in the country to which they went. How long would they be able to enjoy themselves, not hearing one word of English? That is the third objective which ethnic radio should encompass. Another aspect should be directed to long-established migrants in this country. Again, in this direction the link with the Old Country should be emphasised. Everyone likes to listen to the music from the Old Country, irrespective of from where they come. I am sure that at least one honourable senator opposite would like to listen to the Scottish pipes. I am sure that somebody else would like to listen to a song sung in his native tongue. Migrants like to listen to the traditions and cultures of their former countries. It must be an objective of ethnic radio to enlighten migrants about the facilities which I have mentioned previously. 
I would like to make this point: It is important that ethnic radio continues because nobody can understand the loneliness of women who are unable to speak English, who are at home all day and who crave for the broadcast in their own language. Another suggestion that I hope will be taken up is that each hour broadcast in a foreign language would include a segment broadcast in the English language. That would fill 2 purposes: First, it would enable the young generation of Australians born of migrant parents who do not speak their own language to learn something about their old countries. It would also give an opportunity to the Australians in general to find out the traditions, customs, music and literature from the other countries which today are not well known. It would help anyone who travels to the Continent to be able to understand the countries to which they travel. It would make those people interested enough to listen more tolerant of new Australians. I am sure that there will be much criticism of ethnic radio. People will say that we should learn English and speak only English. But when you travel to a foreign country, you want to hear news from your old country. I know that when I travelled overseas I was aghast to find out that nobody ever mentioned Australia in the newspapers of France, Germany or Italy. I imagine that the same thing is happening to so many new arrivals in Australia. They do not receive any news from their old countries. 
In conclusion, I would like to say this: I hope that we will have first-class ethnic radio broadcasts. But I hope also that there will be no politics in it, whether they be Australian politics or politics from the old countries. It is very easy to bring up old quarrels and feuds by quoting from the wrong history book or by playing the wrong musical item. I hope that the new ethnic radio which will be formulated in the near future will take care of all those problems. It is important that we do not make for more animosity among different ethnic groups in this country. It is important that we forget our old animosities because we are in Australia. I am sure that with the Fraser Government we will be able to build a country full of freedom which will give expression to the wishes of every Australian. 
-Has the Minister for Social Security noticed an article in a Sydney newspaper alleging that social service benefits were not paid to the family of  Mr Frank  Mialo of Minto, whose wife Gwen is dying of cancer? Is the newspaper report correct when it alleges that benefits properly due to this tragic family have been or are being withheld? Will the Minister please instruct her Department to arrange for an immediate payment of the benefits to allay the sad situation of this family? Finally, is the Mialo family in receipt of all proper benefits? Are plans in hand to see that its position is reviewed should events alter? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Science been drawn to newspaper reports that a piece of satellite caused a bushfire in the southern tablelands of New South Wales on Monday night. Is it true that space junk can cause bushfires? If so, how great is the risk of a major bushfire from this cause? 
I present the following petition from 79 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That whereas all people should have the right to life, liberty, and political and religious freedom and whereas there are increasing reports on human slaughter and repression by the Communist-led government in Cambodia, your petitioners humbly pray, that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Send a joint Parliamentary team to visit Cambodia and assess the situation. 
Support the admission of news teams to visit Cambodia. 
Support the sending of a Red Cross team to assist with relief work. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware that there has been concern in the community that people have not yet received their family allowance cheques? Can the Minister explain to the Senate the way in which the payments of family allowances are being made and assure me that payments are being made on time without any delay? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that land at Borroloola is now being claimed by some Aborigines as that tribal area which belongs to a tribe which is now allegedly extinct? Will the Minister investigate the bona fides of the Aboriginal people who are now claiming that area? Is the Minister able to advise how the difficult problems that arise when claims are made for land originally held by Aboriginal groups, now extinct, can be resolved? 
In contrast to the criticism offered by the then Leader of the Opposition of the Hayden Budget, the present Opposition's criticism appears, let us say, rather ill directed, weak and lacking in logic and conviction. Overall it does not provide anything that could be termed constructive criticism or even thought provoking. The majority of the Opposition's time has been spent in discussing issues of fairly peripheral significance within the overall program- issues which are not final, anyway. The criticism of the Budget has been on ideological grounds and, more than that, constantly on emotional grounds rather than on logical economic criteria. This Opposition, unlike the previous Opposition, has not introduced any alternative strategy. It offers nothing by way of an optional program. That means 2 things- either a tacit approval of what we are proposing or an admission of a lack of feasibility in what we might guess is its line. 
The Opposition 's attack is something on which I would like to elaborate. When the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Wriedt,  spoke, he was supposed to be the pivot of the Opposition's attack. He said very little.  His  speech was well put and was made very fluently. He spoke for more than 40 minutes, but he did not say much.  His  speech seemed like a preamble to some later  expose.  We waited for that  expose,  but it never came.  His  speech did not offer any constructive criticism. He said that our Budget is heavily reliant upon stimulating certain sectors. He named those sectors as investment and consumption. He termed our strategy a gamble at the expense of those who are vulnerable. Who gambled more than the previous Government with the fate of hundreds of thousands of unemployed? It gambled and lost. 
The Leader of the Opposition moved an amendment which consists of 5 parts. The first one refers to unemployment and states that this Government is using unemployment 'as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries'. It is pretty strange for a man who was a senior Minister in the previous Government, which created that unemployment, to accuse this Government of using unemployment as a weapon. The second point refers to federalism. It states that the Budget 'abdicates Federal Government responsibilities and forces the State governments and local governments either to reduce their services or to institute additional charges, or both'. Under our Budget the States will suffer no decrease in real income, but they will have a great advantage. They will have no strings attached on how to spend the money. Then comes Medibank. There was no discussion in detail of Medibank. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned it only in passing. I am not surprised that he did not mention it further. I do not think honourable senators opposite like to remember the fiasco of the national strike on Medibank, when the majority of Australian workers who could have stayed at home did not do so. Then comes the fourth point. It suggests that those most vulnerableAborigines, the unemployed and migrants- will be victimised by reductions in services. As usual, migrants come last. 
-The Australian Labor Party always talks about migrants when it wants their votes. When it should do something for them, it forgets them. The whole situation in relation to Aborigines is still under review. We all know that. The Budget contains no real direct cuts which will affect the unemployed. I have no doubt that we shall see a marked improvement in their position, despite the prophecies of doom of the Opposition. As reported at page 289 of  Hansard,  Senator Wriedt  made this interesting point: 
One does not have to be too intelligent in economics to work out that by January unemployment will be approaching the 400 000 mark. 
Then comes the crunch. He said: 
This figure does not take into account all the hidden unemployment caused by the number of people who do not register, the fall in the employment of women, the reduction in the number of people who have second jobs, etc. 
That is what  Senator Wriedt  said. I wonder what would have been the position last October if he had applied those figures to the actual unemployment figures. 
Now let us turn to migrants. Much was said about the cuts to the migrant education program and to problems which we migrants have, but the fact is that the Commonwealth has a migrant education program which will be maintained in 1976-77 at the same level of activity as in 1975- 76. As a matter of fact, expenditure will be increased. The direct expenditure will be increased from $28,731,000 in 1975-76 to $30,655,000 in the current financial year. In addition expenditure is proposed for capital works and services in connection with education centres in hostels and migrant education centres in the capital cities. The Press widely reported the cuts in education and the migrant education allowances but that was a misunderstanding. Since the last Budget the responsibility for reimbursing the States for moneys spent on child migrant education has been transferred from the Department of Education to the Schools Commission. 
In 1975-76 an amount of $ 10.3m was spent by the department on child migrant education. This covered expenditure only from July to December 1975. In January 1976 funding became the responsibility of the Schools Commission. The commission has made provision to spend $20,212,000 in 1976, and a total of $21,645,000 has been recommended for 1977 under its proposed general recurrent grants program. In addition to these amounts the Department of Education has also estimated expenditure in 1976- 77 of $691,000 on child migrant education to be spent on the production of material, conferences, special arrangements for refugee children and a language test development project. The Department of Education also estimates that it will spend $7,920,000 on its adult migrant education program. Further amounts to be spent on full-time intensive English language courses for migrants, pre-embarkation and shipboard language instruction and other items will raise the level of departmental expenditure to $ 10.6m in 1976-77. This is a clear indication of the concern of the Government for migrants. 
The most vulnerable category which  Senator Wriedt  forgot to mention includes pensioners and handicapped people, all of whom will benefit directly from the reforms of this Budget. But they were forgotten by the Leader of the Opposition. In his speech the most vulnerable, as he termed them, rated only about 3 minutes of his time. He spoke for more than 45 minutes, and only 3 minutes were dedicated to the most vulnerable of all. That shows how one can view his priorities or the priorities of his party. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-Order!  I call the Senate to order. The honourable senator is addressing the Chair and he has the right to be heard. I intend to preserve that right. 
We come to the last of  Senator Wriedt  's amendments in which he referred to 'selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence'. I am using highfalutin words which are so often used by some other honourable senators on the other side. Selective stimulatory expenditure may mean a concerted increase in government expenditure or perhaps  Senator Wriedt  intended that we should buy another one or two, or maybe three,  Blue Poles.  That would be nice. I suggest that such a policy is impossible, on the scale at which the Opposition undoubtedly would advocate it, if economic recovery is to take place. Indeed just such a fiscal policy used in the past by the Whitlam Government was a major factor in Australia's economic troubles. This is all that the Leader of the Opposition said. He spoke extensively and eloquently but achieved little.  His  speech was ill justified and ill conceived and provided no guidelines for the Opposition's attack. 
The Opposition speakers who followed- Senators Button, Coleman, Gietzelt and Walsh- appeared to suffer from the same problems that haunt their Leader in this chamber. They also did not offer any alternative strategy for the Government to follow. They adopted the same warped set of priorities which do not aggregate to a coherent and planned Opposition case. Indeed their speeches took up over  2Vi  hours of the valuable time of this chamber. They failed to discuss vital issues such as education and immigration. They mentioned only in passing the rnining sector, defence and social welfare. Indeed, their discussion was concentrated in a manner which is indicative of wrongly established priorities. Approximately 60 per cent of their time was devoted to the Budget strategy, a line which had already been pursued at length by their Leader in this chamber. Naturally,  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Walsh  spoke about the rural industries. They have completely forgotten about the equalisation scheme which is now proposed, which will directly assist this sector and which represents an innovation- I emphasise that point- rejected as unfeasible by the previous Labor Government. This, combined with other forms of direct assistance to the beef, dairying and wool industries and rural reconstruction programs, testifies to the falseness of their arguments.  Senator Coleman  and  Senator Walsh  devoted considerable time to the supposed cuts in Aboriginal spending, but the fact is that such a discussion is completely premature. The figures stated are subject, as we all know, to review when the benefits of the Hay report are evaluated. 
The Government is mindful of its election undertakings in this area. It is committeed to promoting the welfare and the well being of Aboriginals. Naturally,  Senator Button  judges that the Australian Broadcasting Commission expenditure cuts are greatly worthy of his and our time. Not surprisingly, he states that the cuts have been made because of the inherent bias of the Australian Broadcasting Commission against the present Government. I wonder, if we followed his argument, whether we would assume that any Labor Government would automatically increase the grants to the ABC in order to enlarge its exposure. I doubt it. I am rather sure that  Senator Button  realises that decision making, based on such criteria, can be ill afforded. 
This afternoon we heard  Senator Cavanagh.  For the first 10 minutes for his hour long speech he predicted the doom and the failure of the Budget. It is really strange that all honourable senators opposite constantly and repeatedly forecast the failure of our Budget. Apparently they know all about what is necessary to get the economy on the road. I wonder why they did not offer their recently found expertise to their own Party when it was in Government? Is it possible that their Leader did not want to listen to them? I ask the question: Why should we listen to them?  Senator Cavanagh  devoted the rest of his time to speaking about violent demonstrations and Aborigines. He repeated the usual untruths and misrepresentations of the events which occurred on 1 1 November. I was most interested to listen to the  expose  by  Senator Cavanagh  of violent demonstrations. It reminded me that I have heard something like that previously. Many years ago the line was: 'There have to be victims for the cause'. That is what  Senator Cavanagh  is advocating. He suggests: 'Let demonstrators be stoned or clubbed or whatever. It makes good publicity. The victims are suffering for the cause '. That is what  Senator Cavanagh  's speech was all about. 
He said that the Governor-General should be a very nice gentleman, that he should not go out and provoke emotions which cause violent demonstrations. I wonder whether he would speak in such emotional terms about bis Leader? Would he try to persuade his Leader in another place to stay at home and not to go to any meetings because there would be 20 demonstrators who would become emotional? I wonder what the Leader of  Senator Cavanagh  's Party would say if the honourable senator suggested such an idea?  Senator Cavanagh  forgot about one thing and that is the freedom of movement. Should any of us here be prevented by a handful of demonstrators from going to any place to which we want to go and to say what we want to say? Are we really coming to the time of storm troopers who have done just that?  Senator Button  is laughing. He is a bit too young to remember the storm troopers as I do. I have seen them. They were people like the demonstrators who today prevent people with whom they do not agree from attending meetings and having free speech. I draw the attention of the chamber to a speech in the other place on 24 August. I read from the speech made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron): 
When the ballot box has proved to be a futility, as it did late in I97S, and when a political party seizes power by violating conventions and by lies and misrepresentations, and when it arrogantly and blatantly breaks its election promises, which is what the Liberal and Country parties did in respect of Medibank, the majority of the Australian people, particularly the working class people in Australia, have every right to use the methods of passive resistance - 
So throwing stones is passive resistance- to manifest their anger and indignation at what has been done. The same action would be justified if organised labour found it necessary to paralyse industry in order to crush an uprising of the armed forces or an attempt by any other group to overthrow the Constitution by unlawful means. 
The words at the end of that paragraph are something which every trade union member should put on his desk or wherever he works. This is what the honourable member for Hindmarsh said: 
The officer-class of the trade union movement would have to give the orders, and the rank and file would have to obey them. 
This is the democratic trade union movement. This is the movement where all are equal but some are more equal. The honourable member continues on and give a nice instruction on how to make a revolution. He states: 
The first step would be to restrict the generation of power to essential services and to cut it off altogether if the mutineers sought to use that power for purposes to assist the revolution. All transport would have to be halted, the wharves closed and all forms of communication denied to the insurgents. 
When we hear something like that in the Parliament do we really wonder what is happening and what will happen on the streets tomorrow? 

 Senator Colston spoke just before I did about education. He said that education has been neglected. He also cited 4 bodies which criticised the Government for the so-called cuts in education. I wonder if the people who have criticised the Government are members of a lobby or pressure group? Is it surprising that a pressure group would criticise something because it did not get all it wanted. Every pressure group will do that. The honourable senator also said that there are deteriorating standards in universities. That is a strange thing to admit. We have all heard a lot about that. We know that so many university graduates are not able even to spell, not a foreign language but English. Larger numbers of these so-called intellectuals who are today's graduates have difficulty finding jobs. I wonder whether the deteriorated standard of universities has anything to do with it. I would like to refer to the problem of education later in my speech. 
Another factor which has been noted constantly in speeches by honourable senators opposite is supposed fixation with the size of the deficit in our Budget. It really is a great pity that their Party when in government had no fixation other than to increase it. That is why we have all these problems. The previous Government had only one fixation, to spend money- somebody else's money, not its own. It is always easy to spend somebody else's money. Apart from this, few can fail to gauge the significance of the deficit and the means by which it is financed. The Opposition presents very little in the way of constructive and well directed criticism of this Budget. Its allocations when in government exhibited mistaken priorities and, most importanly, it offers no alternative strategy now. It has called for selective stimulatory measures to assist the unemployed. While this is noble in spirit, it would amount only to a short term palliative. 
Meanwhile the malaise in our economy would be accentuated. One of the lessons we have learned from the economic mismanagement undertaken by the Labor Government is that individual economic policy instruments should be used in the context of an overall economic strategy rather than in an individual and fragmented manner. 
I have so far dealt with the negative approach by the Opposition to our Budget. I would like now to state some of its positive factors. This Budget represents a blueprint for the overcoming of our problems on a long term basis. The Budget attempts via the tools of rationalisation and reform to aid economic recovery and rebuild business and consumer confidence. The Treasurer stated clearly in his speech: 
It will do so in pan by putting an end to permissiveness in government spending and turning back the recent trend toward bigger and bigger government. At the same time it will build on the social reforms . . . so as to assist the most needy in our community. 
The Budget was framed in what could be described as an economic straitjacket. We have high inflation, great unemployment, low business confidence and investment, precarious industrial relations and high interest rates. The list is a long one. This straitjacket is a result of the myopic economic management of the Labor Government. That is why they bought the Blue Poles which are so big that they can see them. The Government has done extremely well to encompass in this program the tools of growth, welfare and recovery and accompany these with radical taxation measures, social welfare and rural reforms as well as to begin implementation of new policies in areas such as education. As  Senator Colston  said previously, education is an area which deserves top priority. As a matter of fact, our Government gives top priority to educational problems.  Senator Carrick  addressed an international conference on our Government's view of existing problems in education. The  Australian  of 28 August has an article which quotes  Senator Carrick  as saying, among other things: 
We have over-expanded in the academic field and now we must put more resources into primary schools and educating people for jobs. 
We have neglected the skills of the hand. We must develop the technical expertise needed by the labour force in industry and business. It we fail to do this, education is no longer relevant or alive. 
I wonder what would be the result of continuous accent on academic qualifications so that we would have thousands and thousands of graduates in law, social studies and so on. I am afraid that we would have similar conditions to those I witnessed in Italy many years ago. In Italy even 20 years ago a policeman on the beat had a law degree. That was the only job he could get because there were so many graduates in law. Are we really after a society where our young people who graduate from university would be obliged to take such jobs because they wanted only to have a degree and the degree they wanted did not mean anything and would not benefit society? The dean of the faculty of education at Sydney University, Professor W. F. Connell, told the same conference that these changes were dangerously overdue as education was just not keeping up with the times. He then said something which I was fascinated by, and the  Australian  reports him as making this statement, among others: 
We shudder at radical ideas and are terrified of socialism and communism without understanding what they mean. 
I am afraid that the learned gentleman really does not know what socialism or communism is. The proposals contained in the Budget amount to a 15.3 per cent boost on the previous year in education. Whilst the total amount of expenditure proposed is of great significance, the direction of that expenditure is of the utmost importance. By the provision of grants, universities, colleges and schools will receive a 2 per cent growth in real terms. Technical and further education institutions will receive a 5 per cent growth in real terms. This implies a redirection of funds towards more vocational training which is a very rational approach when structural unemployment of the graduate class is so high. Made in the context of other policies, this reform will be of much significance to manpower planners and policy makers. 
Now I mention a few other items in the Budget which the Opposition has missed completely. According to Opposition spokesmen, social welfare has not been mentioned very much except in the context of Aboriginal welfare. Social welfare expenditure is the largest single component of the Budget outlays. In the areas of pensions, family allowances and assistance to the handicapped, reforms have been proposed. The Government, through gearing pensions to consumer price index movements, will protect pensioners from the eroding effects of inflation. Under the new family allowance arrangements, allowances have been increased substantially. This, coupled with the abolition of the rebate system, will mean that those who need the assistance most will receive it. Similarly, the care of the handicapped will be given considerable stimulus. 
In regard to business activities, I point out that company tax liability is to be cut by indexing trading stock valuation in line with the proposals of Professor Mathews. This is a very significant and valuable reform- one which is welcomed by the business world and which should provide a just and fair situation for replacing stocks and undertaking new investment programs. Further, the Budget recognises, via the change in the retention allowance, the very distinct problems of the small business. My able colleague,  Senator Messner,  has outlined this already. The Government, I am pleased to see, also has rationalised expenditure on growth centres whilst still adhering to the principle of decentralisation. I have named but a few areas where this Budget will have positive effects. The Budget will serve to reform and rationalise expenditures. Unlike its predecessor, this Government recognises the falseness of attempting to achieve an objective by simply investing ever-increasing amounts of money in an ever-increasing complexity of inefficient programs. Efficiency of expenditure is of far greater import. I commend the Budget to this chamber. 
-I present the following petition from 480 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in New South Wales; 
Aware of the Australian Bureau of Statistics Report for New South Wales revealing a drastic fall off in both commencements and approvals for future commencements, of building projects this year as compared to previous years; 
Alarmed at the fact that 1S68 building apprentices were registered for unemployment benefit payments during the month of July in New South Wales; 
Conscious of the fact that most of the unemployed apprentices will never be able to complete their training (thus creating a continuing problem for the industry, and indeed the community as a whole) unless immediate urgent measures are provided for in the Federal Government's Budget; 
We the undersigned citizens of New South Wales in the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly welfare housing, schools, hospitals and other public buildings above the present dangerously low level; 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 158 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in Australia; 
Aware that the Federal Government's Budget for 1976-77 does not include measures to restore full employment in the building and construction industry; 
Alarmed at the fact that unemployment is at the highest level in New South Wales and Queensland since the depression years, with clear indications that the position will further deteriorate. 
Aware that at the same time more and more people are being denied proper housing and other building needs of great social importance are not being carried out. 
Aware that the apprenticeship system is being seriously threatened and many apprentices are unable to complete their apprenticeship. This along with the fact that thousands of tradesmen have been driven out of the industry, will, in years to come create a chronic shortage of skilled workers to the detriment of the community and with enormous adverse economic repercussions. 
We, the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia, by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly: 
Government construction of homes, schools, hospitals and public works development projects, employment and training of unemployed young people, restoration of finance cuts in sewerage and urban development work, provide finance to land commission to provide cheaper land for home building, provide low interest home loans finance. 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
Petition received. 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: Is it a fact, as reported in the Industries Assistance Commission report, that Japan as a leading shipbuilding nation is now apparently reviewing its shipbuilding industry with a view to long term rationalisation and a redirection of its capacity for building very large ships towards smaller non-tanker ships. Is it a fact that Sweden, which has the greatest proportion of its work force in this industry, has also indicated that it intends to reorganise the industry over the next few years, that large reductions in employment are likely, and that yards may be amalgamated? Is it therefore not true to say that the problems faced by the Australian shipbuilding industry are not unique to the Australian industry but in some aspects are similar to those experienced by the major shipbuilding nations? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development whether he is aware of the following statement made in the other place regarding the Albury-Wodonga growth centre and I quote: 
. approximately SO 000 hectares of rural land was designated for purchase in June 1974 and about half of that vast area has now been acquired. 
The statement continued:  the interest bill on the land acquired so far is approximately $6m per annum and will continue to grow. 
The statement went on:  . . some of the land to be acquired under the previous Government's plans would not have been used for about 30 years. Some of it would never have been used at all. 
Will the Minister ensure that any land acquisition planned by the previous Government will be investigated in detail in order to prevent the acquisition of land just for the sake of spending taxpayers 'money? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications read a report in the daily Press which states that 'commercial stations have been excluded from FM radio since a decision was made by the former Government to keep them from expanding their services into this band'? Does the Minister know whether the report is correct? If it is will he ask his colleague to reconsider this decision in order to improve the quality of radio reception in metropolitan areas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The national apprenticeship assistance scheme, as I understand it, is designed to give an incentive to employers to employ and to help to train apprentices. In view of the fact that there will soon be an influx of school leavers into the labour force- this occurring within the context of the current high level of unemployment- will the Minister approach the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in the other place to inquire whether the facilities and the ambit of this scheme could be expanded to assist these young people to gain useful employment and training? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory. Is it a fact, as alleged by Major-General Stretton and as reported in today's Press, that authorities in Darwin knew about the cyclone 1 1 hours before it struck, that no warning was sent to the Minister for the Northern Territory, that no one informed the National Disasters Organisation, and that no one informed the defence forces? Is the Minister aware whether these allegations are true and whether any investigations were made in that regard? Can the Minister inform this chamber what measures, if any, were taken to prevent a similar occurrence in the event of a similar disaster? 
-Has the Minister for Education noted the headlines in the latest issue of  Education,  the journal of the New South Wales Teachers Federation, stating that migrant education for adults and children is still at the end of the educational queue? Would the Minister again inform this chamber and the people of Australia of the facts on migrant education spending by the Fraser Government in language which could be understood even by the editors of the journal? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government. Has he noted a remark made by  Senator James  McClelland during an interview on  State of the Nation  on 1 1 November 1976 in which he referred to the Senate as an antique, archaic, geriatric upper chamber? While conceding the advanced age of  Senator James  McClelland, can the Minister tell us whether his comment is otherwise correct? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the new telephone service which has been established by the Department of Social Security for migrants with language difficulties. I commend the Department on this new initiative to help migrants. But in view of an alleged statement by a departmental spokesman that 'the Department would be delighted if migrants with language difficulties used this service more often', I ask the Minister: First, how will migrants who do not speak or read English find out about this new service; second, will the Minister therefore arrange for the new service to be widely and continually publicised through the ethnic Press, ethnic radio and in all Federal, State and local government offices such as Commonwealth Employment Service offices and post offices? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister been made aware of a new project by the Brotherhood of St Laurence to operate a job centre in Melbourne to assist the unemployed? Will it, in fact, represent an alternative employment service and does its establishment not indicate that there is no more than qualified satisfaction with the job which the Commonwealth Employment Service is able to perform? In view of fairly widespread criticism of the Commonwealth Employment Service, its functioning and its effectiveness, will the Minister undertake to co-operate closely with the Brotherhood of St Laurence to facilitate an assessment of its new initiative with a view to improving Commonwealth procedures and the capacity of the Government's own service to respond to the needs of the unemployed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact, as alleged by Major-General Alan Stretton, (a) that the authorities in Darwin knew about Cyclone Tracy for 1 1 hours before it struck; (b) that no warning was sent to the Minister for the Northern Territory; (c) that no one informed the National Disaster Organisation; and (d) that no one informed the defence forces. 
If these allegations are correct, were any investigations made. 
What measures, if any, have been taken to prevent a similar thing from happening in any future natural disaster. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I draw to the Minister's attention a report in the  Canberra Times  of 17 November that a community health centre will be built at Eden, the announcement having been made by the Minister for Health in the New South Wales Government. I ask whether the funds for this construction contain a Commonwealth funding component. If so, what is the amount of money provided by the Commonwealth for this project, what consultation has taken place with local health professionals and what provisions are there to ensure that a co-operative co-ordination of services takes place in the Eden area after the health centre opens? 
I present the following petition from 2 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are deeply concerned with the low standard of the present Hungarian language program broadcast on Radio Station 2Ea. 
On behalf of the wide cross section of thousands of Australians of Hungarian origin, who understand Hungarian, and have knowledge of the more than a thousand year old Hungarian culture, and have good taste, protest in this way as a last resort, because all our efforts to date for a fundamental change have been in vain. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that this Senate in Parliament assembled should help the Hungarian speaking community to regain confidence in the democratically elected Senate known for its conscientious and wise judgement in restoring peace and faith in democratic principles, which unfortunately are missing from the present management set-up of the Ethnic Radio broadcasters. The petitioners aim is to help with advice, and not to control the broadcasting, and for this we would very much appreciate the opportunity for a small selected delegation to meet the Ministers concerned. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask the Minister to comment on the suggestion by  Mr Bob  Hawke that pensioners should be given an extra week 's payment of the pension at Christmas. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services. A recent newspaper report stated that it was the intention of the Federal Government to close down four of its information offices in Europe and cut back staff in other bureaus. Whilst I acknowledge the necessity for strict control of government expenditure, does the Minister deem this reduction wise in the light of maintaining and promoting Australia's image which is so essential for the success of our export drive and trade with Europe? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Has the Minister seen quite large advertisements placed recently in Sydney newspapers, featuring a picture of the Premier of New South Wales and authorised by a statutory authority of that State, which claim that good jobs are available in New South Wales? Is it a fact that there are good jobs available in New South Wales which employers are finding it difficult to fill? If so, why is it difficult for employers, including the Labor Premier of New South Wales, to fill jobs in that State? Finally, can the Minister explain why there is such a discrepancy between the figures showing the number seeking employment and the larger number receiving the dole? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister seen an article in the 14 February edition of the  Australian Financial Review  about training of the disabled in computer services? Is the Minister able to indicate whether any assistance is being provided by the Commonwealth in support of such training? Is there any possibility of this type of training being extended/ 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. A daily newspaper recently published the results of a survey undertaken at Monash University which revealed that almost 50 per cent of unemployed persons are migrants. It thus appears that there are many more unemployed migrants than official figures suggest. Will the Minister approach the Minister in the other place and inquire whether he is aware of the situation? Will he further inquire as to what provisions the Commonwealth Employment Service makes to ensure that migrants who are unemployed are encouraged to register for employment? 

 - Mr President, it is with great pleasure and personal pride that I rise in support of the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen, moved so ably by  Senator Lewis.  Some honourable senators have already mentioned the excellent maiden speech by  Senator Lewis.  I am glad and delighted to join them in congratulating  Senator Lewis  for what was in my opinion a speech which could serve as an example to many of us. It was logical and clear cut. Above all, the speech was relatively brief. I hope that many colleagues in this place will recognise and copy the example set by  Senator Lewis.  I am sure that if they did the Senate would be better for their action. 

 Mr President, this year, 1977, is the Silver Jubilee Year of the reign of  Her  Majesty the Queen, who has honoured the Australian people and this Parliament by her visit to this country. We were privileged to see and to hear her in the Senate. The enthusiastic welcome expressed by the Australian people demonstrated clearly the affection and respect in which the Queen is held in Australia. The 25 years reign of  Her  Majesty represents and without doubt demonstrates the superiority of the monarchal system of government over any other type of government in today's world. The monarchial system stands for stability, security and continuity. Above all, it guarantees freedom to all of its people. There was loose talk in this chamber about republicanism gaining ground in this country. If the welcome expressed by Australians shows what the Australian people think about the monarchy, I am quite convinced that we will have the monarchal system, not for 10 years or 20 years as some honourable senators mentioned in their speeches, but for many hundreds of years. 
Under the monarchy, every king is a citizen and every citizen is a king. There was talk about a division of our society about the monarchy. If there is a division in our society, it is in the socialist camp where there is argument about the form of government which the Australian society prefers. Let me assert that I would rather live in a society divided on this issue in the way our society is divided than to live under a united republican system where we would all be united under the machine gun. We have seen those kinds of democracies where republican prime ministers or presidents rule. Plenty of examples are to be found in today's world. We have merely to observe what is happening in Africa. We have only to observe the kind of freedom which the people of the sub-continent of India enjoy. Therefore, I feel that there is no doubt that the monarchy as such has proved itself as the best system of government not only in past societies but also in our modern age. 
I wish now to refer to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty in this chamber. The only criticism of it has come from the Opposition side. Those on the other side are well known for their rhetoricempty rhetoric which is punctuated with a dash of witticism which is usually misplaced and often in bad taste. I remind those honourable senators who like to be witty that wit and wisdom are like the 7 stars- seldom to be seen together. 
Among other things in her Speech, Her Majesty said: 
At the heart of my Government's policies lie a commitment and a concern: commitment to increasing the freedom, opportunity and equality of the Australian people; and concern with enhancing people's ability to make their own choices and live their own lives in their own way. 
Those principles related in that part of  Her  Majesty's Speech are extremely appropriate and applicable to the problems and needs of migrants in the Australian community. 
Since the end of World War II, more than 3 million migrants have come to settle in Australia. Today about one-sixth of all Australians have been born in another country. Indeed, migrants have accounted for more than 60 per cent of the population increase and over 50 per cent of the increase in the Australian work force since 1 947. Statistics confirm that 40 per cent of the manufacturing work force are overseas born and, further, some industries have migrant membership reaching proportions of 70 per cent to 80 per cent. In some industries- I refer specifically to the clothing and vehicle building industries- the proportion rarely drops below 30 per cent. 
Migrants were invited here to help to develop Australia, to supplement the work force and thus to share in the prosperity and high standard of living that this would provide. However, in entering the work force, migrants are faced with severe problems. For many of them, this constitutes an endurance test of immeasurable proportions. The Jackson Committee which was set up to advise on policies for manufacturing industry studied the problems of migrants in the work force. It referred to a number of specific problem areas. I shall try to analyse them one by one. 
The first problem concerns language and communication difficulties. Most employment problems revolve around this language difficulty problem. The migrant is plagued by the inability to communicate with both his fellow employees and his employers and often relies on his fellow worker to be able to communicate his problems in his work. 
The second problem is the lack of knowledge of service organisations and agencies. Some of the larger industries which employ a high percentage of migrants were wise enough to employ multilingual industrial officers. Industries which provided such a service to migrants found that problems associated with absenteeism, safety and accidents diminished tremendously because of the ability of migrants to discuss their problems with those industrial officers. I hope that many other industries will follow their example. 
Another important problem relates to ignorance of cultural differences. It is a fact, unfortunately, that many supervisory staff in the big industries do not understand the behaviour of certain migrant or ethnic groups. This is especially evident in connection with the employment of migrant women. A woman migrant or a multilingual migrant in such a position would solve a lot of problems. 
Another problem which the Jackson report revealed relates to the lack of recognition of overseas qualifications. It is a fact that primarily immigration was seen as a means of providing a source of semi-skilled and unskilled labour. This explains why skilled and professional migrants received no recognition here of their qualifications for many years. Fortunately the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1969 partially remedied that situation by establishing a committee on overseas professional qualifications to evaluate, to judge and to qualify tradesmen from other countries. It considered their credentials to ensure that they could comply with Australian standards. In the sphere of trade skills the local trade committees at State level, under the auspices of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, exist as an effective assessment body. 
While these have been valuable steps in remedying this situation there are still many subprofessional or para-professional groups not catered for, and unfortunately this is the largest group amongst migrants in industry in Australia at this time. 
Today the situation has changed inasmuch as newcomers to this country are limited to certain qualifications. They are selected on the ground of their trade experience to ensure that their qualifications are recognised by bodies here in Australia. I submit that if skills are recognised and are efficiently utilised in Australia a tangible economic benefit flows from migration. 
Lack of institutional means of dealing with migrant employment problems is another aspect highlighted in the Jackson report. In many cases the approach is  ad hoc.  In many cases problems are dealt with as and when they arise. In some instances insufficient attention was paid to preventing such issues arising. Many of these problems are accentuated by the fact that on the whole migrants enter the work force on the bottom of the industrial ladder, being in the main semi-skilled or unskilled workers. The Green Paper noted: 
In manufacturing, migrants undertake the least skilled, most menial tasks, both for economic reasons and because they lack personal alternatives. Migrant workers predominate in those industries, plants and jobs where conditions are worst and where jobs are physically hardest. 
Why then are these problems remaining so intense and unresolved? In enumerating the problems migrants incur in entering and participating in the Australian work force I neglected to state the seventh area. It think this is the area which as been neglected for the last 25 years. This problem was highlighted in the Jackson report. The Jackson Committee found that the failure of the trade union movement to perceive and communicate the problems of migrant members is one question long overdue to be solved. The Australian Council of Social Services study into equal opportunity in Australia stated: 
Generally speaking, trade unions are failing to communicate effectively with non-English speaking migrant workers and cater to their needs. There is also a reluctance to acknowledge that migrants are a particular group of members within unions with special problems. 
A question often asked is: How many migrants participate in unions not only as fee-paying members but as members of the hierarchy? A recent study of this matter undertaken in Victoria covers the period from 1971 to 1974. In Victoria in that period there were approximately 300 union official representing 50 different unions. Of those 300 officials, only nine were migrants. Those 9 people worked for 6 separate unions. The proportion of migrant officials compared with others was then only 3 per cent. Nobody can contest that 3 per cent represents a leading role in the trade union movement. June Hearne, who compiled that report, noted also that there are a number of unions in industries with a large migrant component, such as sections of the building and metal trades, the food, transport, footwear and service areas, with no representation in the leadership. If we look at the Australian Council of Trade Unions Congress we find that only five of the delegates were non-British migrants. As one researcher noted: 
The fact is, that after 25 years of mass immigration, one needs a magnifying glass if one is to find a migrant in the leadership of a union. 
Why does this situation exist? Migrant advances within union organisations have depended, and do depend, very largely, on the initiatives of Australian union leaders. But is this leadership really interested to have migrants in executive positions, the leading positions? Certainly not. Unions dominated by communist executives conform  to  an idea which was clearly expressed in a conference held on 3 October 1976 in Yugoslavia, in that beautiful town of Dubrovnik on the coast, under the title 'Socialism in Today's World'. Amongst the figures at that conference was a famous French Marxist ideologist, Emanual Argiri. During his speech he referred very often to the workers' aristocracy. Among other things he stated: 
This workers' aristocracy exists as the result of high incomes that today's workers enjoy in the so-called capitalist world. 

 Mr Argiri took as an example the United States and West Germany. This is what he had to say about workers in those 2 countries: 
These workers have been transformed from being the exploited to those who benefit from the surplus of their labour and thus become the enemies ofthe proletariat. Solidarity among the workers' masses is possible only as long as the workers are exploited. It is therefore clear that the only solution of this problem is a new  proletarisation  of this workers'  aristrocracy  because it is impossible to achieve a successful revolution without a proletariat. 
Even more interesting was the reaction to the Argiri speech by a professor from the Belgrade University who stated: 
If it is a fact that the working class in the West has lost its revolutionary zeal as they achieve a high living standard, it will be necessary to import that revolutionary spirit from outside in order to reawaken that revolutionary spirit. 
Is it any wonder that some of our trade unions- I do not say all- completely ignore the majority of their members.  Mr Clyde  Cameron, a member of the other place, on 24 August 1 976 stated: 
The officer-class of the trade union movement would have to give the orders, and the rank and file would have to obey them. 
If this is democracy, then it is no wonder that our Government has been swept back into power after only 3 years of socialist paradise! 
A book has been written about the power of trade unions. The title is an amazing one. It is called  The New Barons.  It refers to trade union leaders in the United Kingdom. I am afraid that the union rank and file and leadership feel that migrants could hardly represent their interests. This attitude, coupled with degrees of formal and informal prejudice, militates against migrant participation. It is a fact that the bigger a union becomes the easier it is for the leadership of that union to safely ignore the migrant section of its membership as potential leaders. When and where organisational survival requires it there have been concessions and migrant leaders have been sought. This general attitude of trade union leaders endorses the apprehension which many migrants feel towards unions. 
Many migrants have no fundamental understanding ofthe Australian union and of the arbitration system. Often they have never known unionism before. If they have known it it was as a further arm of the state, an institution integral to officialdom to be treated with suspicion and distrust. This is how migrants feel about unions today. It is up to the union leaders if migrants are to be included in positions of decision making and authority. 
If migrants do not participate as leaders then I ask whether the present leaders effectively represent their interests. If the Jackson report and the Australian Council for Social Service are to be believed, the answer is no. These reports state categorically that trade unions are not recognising or understanding, let alone communicating, the needs of their migrant members. As one writer notes, often when one talks about special migrant needs on wages, housing, social services and language communication some in the trade union movement interpret this as seeking to put migrants into a different and more privileged position than that of the rest of the workers. Yet the issue here is not for the migrant to overtake the rest of the workers but simply to attain an equal position in society. 
What then can be done? In these circumstances trade unions can hardly claim to be representative of the interests of their rank and file, let alone those who make up the Australian work force. Representation depends on the initiatives of both the union leadership and of the migrants themselves. Union leaderships could be forced to encourage migrants to participate and fundamentally to assist them with organisational problems and so on. It is a pity that unions should need to be forced to represent the interests of the workers in order to survive. 
When the benefits of migration to Australia are mentioned they are usually restricted to the change in our eating and drinking habits. How often do we hear any mention of the migrant contributions to the present standard of living in Australia? What would be the state of Australia 's economy without migration? Who would man the industries so necessary for the wellbeing of us all? Who would perform all those jobs which so often offend the more delicate, refined or choosy among our work force? 
The problems of migrants in the work force need much attention. That this is so stands as a reminder that as well as purely economic considerations some more integrated social provision has to be made for a successful migration program.  Mr President,  I have pleasure in supporting the motion. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. A report in a Sydney daily newspaper asserts that there has been a dramatic drop in the number of skilled tradesmen in the work force in the period since 1971. The magnitude of the drop is estimated at 1 56 000 men. Can the Minister approach the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in the other place and inquire as to whether there is any validity in this report? If so, has the Government considered the serious long term effects on business and the economy as a whole that a shortage of skilled workmen involves? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Recent media coverage of the East Timor situation, both in the newspapers and on television, contains many reports allegedly received from Fretilin sources located m East Timor. Will the Minister inquire of his colleague in the other place whether (a) he is aware of who is monitoring these alleged Fretilin messages and (b) it would be possible to establish the precise geographical location of the Fretilin transmitter in view of the fact that often during the last War transmitters supposedly located in the country of conflict were in fact located in neighboring countries? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. An article in the Sydney  Sun  dated 28 March of this year alleges that government departments are currently engaged in investigating apparent fraud involving mainly migrants in the receiving of pension cheques. The report states that those involved buy false medical documents and then acquire an invalid pension and further, that many of them have returned to their home countries, where they continue to receive pension cheques, and are a part of the 1843 people in overseas countries who are in receipt of invalid pensions. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether these allegations are correct and, if so, what is being done to rectify the situation? Further, will she give a country by country breakdown of the total number of pensions remitted overseas? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Recently I directed a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning his response to results of a survey on migrant unemployment. The survey, conducted by a Monash University research team, found that migrant unemployment was higher than that of Australian born workers. In answering these assertions the Minister stated that those conclusions could not be regarded as accurate due to possible imperfections in the sample and the paucity of relevant information available for measuring this parameter. I thus ask the Minister whether there is any possibility of improving the facilities for collecting data which could be used in order to derive a meaningful and reliable measurement of migrant unemployment. If such data could be obtained it would help to clarify the confusion about this subject created by many conflicting statements that have appeared recently in the media and in the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A report in a recent newspaper stated: 
Last year, the Soviet Union and all their allies in the Warsaw Pact, gave less than half as much aid as West Germany to the under-developed world. 
Can the Minister ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the other place whether he can provide information on, firstly, the amount of foreign aid provided by the Soviet Bloc countries; secondly, the general conditions underlying this aid, tied or untied; and finally, whether the paper's assertion is correct and whether it is not unusual to find a similar comparison between the Soviet Union and countries other than West Germany. 
Tonight the Senate is debating Appropriation Bills (No. 3) and (No. 4) and the amendment moved by the Opposition. It is an amendment which I firmly oppose. I wish to discuss the Green Paper on population because I believe that the population problem of Australia is of vital importance to this country. It is of vital importance to its economy and to maintaining the standard of life that we are used to. This paper was prepared by the Australian Population and Immigration Council, which was established by the Fraser Government. The paper is titled 'Immigration Policies and Australia's Population'. It is the first paper to be tabled on the subject in this Parliament. Anyone who has read this paper undoubtedly will agree with me that it is a first class paper. The Council as such has to be congratulated on its work. The Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  also has to be congratulated on his initiative in suggesting to the Council the general theme of the paper. I feel that the value of the paper lies in several areas. First, it has identified the major immigration issues to be discussed. Secondly, it has illustrated the relationship between the variables in the population equation and the linkage effects of immigration and general population policy decisions on the socioeconomic system. Thirdly, very significantly it has used a multi-disciplinary approach and in doing so it has considered all aspects of the issues simultaneously and their interrelationships. The latter has achieved effectively the overall principal function of producing the paper- that of identifying and discussing the major issues to be considered in immigration and population inquiries. The publication of the Green Paper has come at a very opportune time. This is for several reasons. First, our immigration program has been substantially run down. Secondly, the question of our population growth has taken on a new stance in discussions on the population of this country. Thirdly, international crises are creating pressures on us to clarify our attitude on accepting refugees and on our total humanitarian immigration program. In times of economic recession it is customary to analyse more deeply the direction in which our country is developing, to isolate those objectives that are of top priority and fundamentally to rethink the whole situation. Indeed if that is not done and if structural changes are not implemented the position would be illustrative of a rather myopic approach to government and policy making. 
The impact of the Green Paper has been undeniable. Indeed, the media coverage has been most favourable. The Government has attempted to tackle the task of immigration with zeal and enthusiasm. The Government has taken many initiatives, the most recent one being the declaration of its refugee policy. The refugee issue is a key one, and its significance was unforgivably ignored or not realised by the previous socialist Administration. Its self-proclaimed humanitarianism was definitely found to be wanting. That fact should never be forgotten. We should not forget the way in which the previous socialist Administration handled the refugee problem. I would like to read to the Senate what  Senator Mulvihill  said in this chamber on 29 March 1977 about the refugee problem.  His  remarks are recorded on page 606 of the Senate  Hansard.  He said: 
I have never felt that the United Nations refugee organisation was as efficient as it might be. I think that it has imposed unduly at times on Canada and Australia, but let us hope that in the light of the support of the unions I have enumerated justice will be done to those people across the Pacific. 
As recently as yesterday  Senator Mulvihill  said, as reported at page 1266 of  Hansard: 
In turn, if Australia and Canada are bearing the major responsibility in this humanitarian area I should like to see some European countries which have a fairly high standard of living make even higher donations for the sustenance of refugee organisations than they are making at present. 

 Senator Mulvihill twice mentioned the point that Australia and Canada are the two countries which are taking a very high percentage of refugees while other countries are completely ignoring the people who find themselves outside their own country. 
I refer now to the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Under its charter it has 3 1 members which form the Executive Committee. It is an interesting fact that only in 1 967 the number of members of that Committee was increased from thirty to thirty-one. 
The method by which the members of that Committee are chosen is set out in the Committee's handbook. It reads: 
The Committee is appointed on the widest possible geographical basis from those stares (members of the United Nations and others) with a demonstrated interest in. and devotion to, the solution of the refugee problems. 
I am sure that the Senate will be interested to know that the thirty-first member to be appointed to that body was none other than Uganda. Another interesting fact is that included among those thirty-one members of the office of the High Commissioner for Refugees is none of those so-called humanitarian countries, led by the most humanitarian country in the world- the fatherland of the socialist forces in the world, the Soviet Union. None of those countries is included in the membership of that Committee. None of them has ever contributed a penny. 
-That is right; it is only a one-way street. The humanitarianism of the socialist forces in this country and in countries all over the world stops where their ideology stops. That is a fact which can be substantiated by looking at the figures which I have just cited. 
I would like to point out also that in 1975 the High Commission for Refugees had resettled, among others, 1925 Chilean refugees. Of that number, thirty-six went to Hungary and 103 to Romania. All of the others chose to go to Western democracies. That raises an interesting question. There are 3 questions really. Firstly, why did those people not choose to go to the so called humanitarian countries led by the Soviet Union? Did those countries reject their applications to go there? Secondly, maybe the refugees know exactly what kind of life exists in socialist paradises and they prefer to be 'exploited' by the socalled Western capitalists. The last possibility is that maybe those refugees- I am referring to the Chileans- chose to go to the Western countries because the people who support their ideologies in the Western countries lack revolutionary zeal and enthusiasm and have to be given a bit of new blood in order that they can continue to upset the Western democracies. Maybe it is a planned approach to increase the activities of the revolutionary groups in the Western world. I have stated my thoughts about the refugee problems. Everybody can read the facts if they want to do so. 
I would like to analyse briefly the Green Paper dealing with population. The Green Paper is divided into 1 1 chapters. It covers all aspects of the population and immigration issue, from background chapters covering such areas as goals and options, population growth rate trends and recent policy history, right through to a discussion of the effect of immigration on the economy and the possible policy options. I would like to concentrate my discussion on the effect of immigration on the economy. However, I shall preface that discussion with some remarks on these background chapters. That will provide a perspective to the ensuing discussion. The initial chapters in the Green Paper are very important. The section covering goals and options deals with the national objectives in the light of the latest figures on population growth rate trends in Australia. The paper concentrates on immigration as an option in population policy. One could be concerned that it perhaps should have included more discussion on the growth of the natural population. However, as the report notes, immigration is the population variable most readily controllable by government in seeking specific population goals. 
The objectives of immigration can be reduced to two: Firstly, those serving specific national interests such as providing needed manpower for industrial and economic development and more generally stimulating Australia's economic growth; secondly, those of a humanitarian nature. This covers such areas as family reunion and refugee policies, which I have already mentioned. The fact that immigration policy is a component of both these objectives, each motivated by quite separate and different considerations, is very important. It is an unfortunate fact that the socio-economic system imposes a finite limit on our immigration absorptive capacity. This necessarily means that we are forced to weigh them against each other and act according to these established priorities. The Minister stated: 
Ultimately, however, if an integrated comprehensivelybased policy is to be enumerated to serve the national interest as fully as possible, it is imperative that the various pros and cons be weighed up and, as far as possible, reconciled. 
The paper then progresses to a discussion of recent trends in the growth of Australia's population and the implications that they have. The question of the population growth rate is the crucial consideration when discussing the  raison d'etre  of this paper and the matters and facts revealed. This chapter convincingly supports the very real necessity for a consistent and sustained immigration intake if we are to ensure a healthy economy and a high standard of living in Australia. This statement is made in the light of the disturbing population growth rate trends occurring in Australia. 
Another aspect of the paper relates to the question of migrants and the economy. The paper is facilitated by the perspective rendered by the previous discussion of the background. The paper rejects criticism that Australia's immigration program has had adverse effects on capital accumulation, economies of scale, technological progress, employment and economic stability. It then deals separately with each of these aspects. Firstly, it deals with capital requirements, costs and immigration. This area resolves to a discussion of 2 major assertions: Firstly, the question of the viability of an immigration program in the light of the demands it makes on investment in infrastructure- social overhead capital- for instance, welfare, education, housing and so on. The paper dismisses this as manageable and short term in duration. The second assertion is the effect of the age and replacement of capital equipment in industry when migrants join and thus inflate the size of the workforce. The paper states: 
There is little evidence that immigration is a major retarding influence on the growth of the capital-labour ratio in industry. 
The paper suggests that in the short run immigration may have a dampening effect on the rate of growth of productivity and thus real wages. In the long term, the paper states that this should be countered by the expansion of production induced by the demand of migrants. The latter, coupled with the skills and enterprise they possess and apply, should secure gains in productivity and efficiency which, in conjunction with progress in technology, should ensure the long term basis for increasing real wages. 
The next question with which the paper deals concerns migrants in the workforce. This is perhaps the area of most discussion and debate in immigration considerations. In this area immigration has supplemented areas of shortage of both skilled and unskilled labour. Such labour can be injected regionally and structurally as required by the labor force. Recruitment of migrants for this purpose can be controlled and directed to obtaining workers possessing necessary skills. The question which is so often asked and which is dealt with quite adequately in the paper is this: Has immigration increased pressures sustaining the high level of unemployment in Australia? A lot has been said about the high level of unemployment of migrants in Australia.  Mr Whitlam  claimed- falsely, I must say- at a migrant rally in Melbourne: 
Migrants now have the highest unemployment in the Australian workforce. You are the first to be made redundant in an economic crisis, the first to suffer from the stagnation and cuts in government programs by this Government. 
The honourable gentleman has forgotten, if he has ever known the fact, that the sackings in the industry are worked on the trade union principle of 'last in first out '. This paper refutes the truth of  Mr Whitlam  's statement. Further figures do also. Between November 1975 and November 1976 there was a drop from 70 000 to 69 700 in the number of overseas-born unemployed. This is a long way short of a doubling in migrant unemployment, as claimed by the honourable gentleman. In this 2-year period there was an increase of 8.6 per cent in overseas-born unemployed whereas unemployment generally in the Australia labour force rose by 26.5 per cent. 
It is a fact that the Green Paper rejected as insupportable claims that immigration has added to unemployment. It states that, if anything, the evidence points to a very ready entry into earning activities by migrants. Unemployment currently in Australia is significantly structural in nature. Lack of skills in some areas is hampering economic recovery. Immigration is a positive policy instrument in alleviating this. The discussion on unemployment is brief. The paper states that the maintenance of stable intake and a consistent program is vitally important. This enables investment decisions to be made with a degree of certainty about future levels of the labour supply, market trends and the like. The recent inconsistency of the program, the paper implies, has been a disincentive to investors and has probably contributed to the generally depressed situation. It is interesting to note what  La Fiama  said in its front page editorial after the presentation of the paper. It said: 
From all the arguments the fact comes clearly to light, that the immigration policies adopted during the last few years have not Deen in the best interests of this country. 
On the question of economic stability the Council stated: 
That it is difficult to support claims that immigration has made an independent and continuing contribution to inflation. 
Apart from some short term disequilibria, the effects are dismissed. The discussion on the economy in the paper is a good one. It has clarified many fundamental misconceptions and unjustified fallacies about our immigration programs. This applies especially to the effect on unemployment levels and real wage rates, a subject much exploited by unions both in voicing and in attempting to justify their opposition to immigration. The discussion is qualified by a distinction between the short term and long term effects of policies. In any assessment of immigration this distinction is vital. It is vital also in considering the costs of immigration, especially in present times when these might appear uneconomical. The Minister states on this issue: 
We cannot responsibly formulate a policy which serves the present but not the future, and vice versa- the best policy is one which optimally serves both today and the future. 
It goes on to suggest: 
The Australia of 1977 is very much the result of the decision taken by its leaders in years gone by . . . 
Indeed, we cannot let present difficulties blind us from the economic and social realities of the future. The point made by the paper regarding the importance of having a stable and consistent policy is a fine one. In conclusion, the paper presents policy options. Firstly, it presents the option of cessation of immigration, as such, which is dismissed as totally unfeasible. Secondly, it presents the option of restricted intake of refugees and family reunions categories. This also is untenable as it would mean a net loss in numerical terms of skilled labour. The paper opts for a net intake of 50 000 people, with a gross of 100 000. This target the paper indicates could incorporate all groups justly and with respect to the national interest. In the longer term when the economic absorptive capacity of the country increases, this figure can be upstepped to a net gain of 70 000 to 100 000 people per annum. Many observers feel this is what is required currently as such a figure would allow more entries on humanitarian grounds and further would add stimulus to the economy and thus create more job opportunities. 
These considerations will have to be qualified by two constants: Firstly, the statistics on total departures from Australia, in which we have found that in the past 10 years 339 000 Australian bom citizens left this country; and, secondly, the availability of suitable migrants, which should not be taken for granted, especially if we are giving priority to skilled categories. As the Minister noted, the success of an immigration policy is dependent upon its being actively pursued and being based on a public consensus. The debate provoked by the release of this report is most necessary to establish this consensus. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. The Minister in response to  Senator Wriedt  referred to a document summarising the decisions of the April Premiers Conference. Is that document readily available? If it is not too voluminous could it be incorporated in  Hansard  for the information of honourable senators and the community? 
Will the Minister for Science tell the Senate what actions have been initiated or have been taken already by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to prevent the further spread of the spotted lucerne aphid in New South Wales and to limit the damage that is being done to lucerne crops and pastures in eastern Australia? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations noted a report in the daily Press stating, first, that the International Labour Organisation has criticised communists and Third World countries for violating some of its key conventions; and secondly, that the ILO report cited the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in particular for using the law to restrict trade union rights and that an ILO committee of experts picked out the communist States and eastern European countries as well as 30-odd African and Latin countries for violating the rights of workers, calling them to task for failing to apply Convention 87, despite the fact that they ratified it and nominated the following countries: Algeria, Bolivia, Burma, Central African Empire, Chad, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Kuwait, Liberia, Mauritania, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Syria and Uruguay? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the reported allegations are correct? If so, will the Minister be able to table the report published by an 18- member Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations which was prepared for ILO Convention, sixtythird session, 1977? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 5 May 1977: 
1 ) Who were the three persons referred to in the Minister for Labor and Immigration's answer to Senate question No. 27, dated 12 November 1974, relating to the issue of entry permits to Italian nationals, who had previously been refused entry into Australia. 
) Who were the three persons. 
3 ) What is known about them. 
Have they arrived in Australia. If so, how long did they stay. 
Were any of them deported. If so, (a) which ones, and (b) on what dates. 
What was the purpose of their trip to Australia. 
Did any of them bring publications into Australia. If so, which of them did so. 
If the answer to (7) is in the affirmative, what was the nature of the publications and how were they disposed of in Australia. 
What is known about these people subsequent to their return to Italy. 
I present 2 petitions, similar in wording, from 38 and 32 citizens of Australia respectively as follows: 
To the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens (students, parents, teachers) of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision by the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of non-state tertiary institutions is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to a serious worsening of the current employment situation, particularly school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Federal Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received and first petition read. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether her attention has been drawn to newspaper articles alleging cuts in the interpreter service. What is the truth in the allegation and what is the real situation? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that there is a general phasing out of the bonding system in teacher training throughout Australia? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the progress that has been achieved in this direction? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the continuing concern of many Australians about the state of health and nutrition among Aboriginal people, especially Aboriginal children? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether any recent steps have been taken in the field of education to improve Aboriginal health and nutrition, especially in the Northern Territory? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Sydney  Sun oi 21  September last in which the Wran Government is accused of breaking an election promise on education funding for New South Wales independent schools? Did the Wran Government promise to maintain per capita grants to non-government schools at 20 per cent of State school costs, as determined by the Schools Commission? Is it true that per capita grants in New South Wales have now shrunk to less than 16 per cent? Is it also true that despite the generosity of the Fraser Government's new federalism policy, the New South Wales Government currently is paying nongovernment schools only $122 per primary student and $202 per secondary student, compared with the Victorian Liberal Government's payments of$ 155 and $260 respectively? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a column in yesterday's Sydney  Daily Mirror  by a State political reporter, Dennis Ringrose, entitled 'Education a Poor Relation?"? Does  Mr Ringrose  say in his report that 'Education is fast becoming the poor relation of the Wran Government's many financial responsibilities'? Will the Minister give the Senate his views on the very real threat which cutbacks in the Wran Government's spending on education pose for the children of New South Wales? 
My question is directed to  Senator Carrick  as Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. I ask: Could the Minister approach the Minister in the other place to determine whether there is any truth in recent allegations reported in the Press that the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation has spent between $60m and $90m on land acquisitions but has issued no balance sheet or statement of accounts since June 1974? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of a report that appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald on Monday headed New South Wales Teachers Demand Jobs for All1? Is it a fact that New South Wales trainee teachers met at the weekend and demanded that all available qualified teachers in New South Wales should be employed? Is it also a fact that a unanimous resolution highly critical of the New South Wales Minister for Education was carried at that meeting? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the New South Wales Government has done anything in its new Budget to overcome the great difficulties it has created for teachers in that State and whether it will be able to meet its election promise to employ all trained teachers? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a new 47-page booklet entitled  The Aims qf Primary Education in New South Wales,  which has been described in Press reports as a glossy, coffee table publication written in a slick style? Could the Minister inform the Senate of his views on the aims of primary school education as set out in the booklet and the attitude of  Dr John  Vaughan, the New South Wales Assistant Director-General of Education, who is reported to have commented on the new booklet in the following terms: 
I have a scepticism about the knowledge-oriented learning of the previous aims. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a report in this morning's  Canberra Times  of a new concept in bi-lingual education for migrant children? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate of the aims and details of the proposed new scheme in the Australian Capital Territory? 
-Can the Minister representing the  Minister for  Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, in view of the continuous controversy in the media about adult migrant education, inform the Senate of the latest situation with respect to the supply and demand for adult migrant education services. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Education. In view of the increasing importance of technical education in Australia, will the Minister inform the Senate of the major conclusions drawn by the national conference of directors of technical and further education held in Canberra last week? 
-On behalf of  Senator Messner  I present a special report from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts arising from the conference of Commonwealth and State public accounts committees in June of this year. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator LAJOVIC (New South Wales)-by leave- To the best of our knowledge the Conference of Commonwealth and State Committees was the first occasion since Federation that equivalent committees of all the parliaments of Australia have met with the common purpose of giving greater substance to Paliament's traditional responsibility of effectively reviewing the financial activities of the executive government to ensure that funds are spent as Parliament intended and that taxpayers receive value for money. It was the firm view of the conference that the proper and efficient expenditure of public funds and the collection of revenue must remain the paramount concern of all public accounts committees. 
During the conference the mechanics of financial scrutiny by parliaments was examined. 
Although no resolutions were recorded the following general observations are contained in the report: The function of public accounts committees is to exercise parliamentary scrutiny over the executive and administration with the object of stimulating a more effective use of public funds. With the continuing growth of government expenditure in real terms, an increase of almost50 per cent in the past decade, there is a pressing need for more effective scrutiny by paraments, both State and Federal. It was hoped that the increasing emphasis placed by the Auditors-General on efficient auditing rather than merely regulatory auditing would enable public accounts committees to place more emphasis on their value for money inquiries. It was necessary to aim for greater co-ordination between State and Federal public accounts committees to ensure adequate public accountability for expenditure across all spheres of government. It is worth noting that with the continuing use of special purpose grants parliaments should consider the development of new techniques to ensure more effective parliamentary overview, especially in those areas where there is 100 per cent Commonwealth funding, such as tertiary education, in which the legal as well as the financial overlap between Federal and State resonsibilities may require further clarification. 
Departmental and ministerial co-operation was essential for the effective operation of public accounts committees. Public accounts committees would benefit by the use of expert guidance by either permanent or seconded staff and the use of expert witnesses. The Public Accounts Committee has had consultations with both the Auditor-General and the Public Service Board in the hope that regular arrangement for the seconding of professional staff on rotation could be established. We believe this would be of advantage to both the Public Service and the Committee. It was considered important that effective guidelines for the selection of priorities for inquiry be developed. The public accounts committees generally accept government policy as a starting point for their investigations and examine the performance and achievement of objectives within the context of that policy. Closer collaboration between public accounts committees and their respective AuditorsGeneral, Treasuries and Public Service boards was essential to ensure more effective scrutiny of expenditure. 
Closer co-operation and co-ordination between the public accounts committees and other parliamentary committees concerned with estimates of expenditure was essential for parliamentary control over the public purse. In the Federal Parliament we believe it will be necessary to maintain a close working relationship between the Public Accounts Committee, the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, the Senate Estimates committees and the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. Apart from informal meetings of the chairmen of these committees it would be advisable for staff to have a close working relationship to minimise potential duplication and to increase the impact of specific examinations. The effective functioning of public accounts committees and parliamentary scrutiny depended upon a clear understanding by members of Parliament of the budgetary processes. Committees should be concerned with the nature and comprehensibility of the financial information presented to the Parliament. 
The eleventh Committee agreed in principle to an examination of the financial documents presented to Parliament. To assist members of Parliament to appreciate the purpose and substance of budget documents the Treasury was requested to re-issue a parliamentary handbook on Commonwealth and financial affairs. While in theory the budgetary process enables Parliament to review expenditure, despite the massive increase in government activities the public accounts committee mechanism first introduced into the House of Commons in 1861 has not been significantly reformed. It is doubtful whether in its present form it can meet current responsibilities effectively. With the objective of overcoming some of these problems the Committee has recommended to the Government substantial reforms to the Public Accounts Committee Act introduced into the Parliament in 1951. These requirements would permit the Committee to examine more effective expenditure by statutory corporations which currently receive little effective parliamentary review and widening of the terms of reference to include the review of efficiency audits conducted by the AuditorGeneral. This will ensure that the machinery of the Parliament is able to meet the expanded functions recently given to the Auditor-General. 
It is unfortunate that the public at large appears to have the impression that Parliament is little more than a venue for gladiatorial contests between political parties, and because of the nature of the system they are unaware of the considerable work done by parliamentarians of all parties behind the scenes in committees such as that of Public Accounts. Provided the Parliament is prepared to take the initiative we are confident that it will be possible to achieve an improvement in the effectiveness of Public Accounts Committees, the members of which have a unique opportunity to gain a deep insight into the workings of the Public Service and to examine actual expenditure of funds by conducting public hearings and publishing, when necessary, critical reports. 
I commend the report to honourable senators. 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate of the details of New South Wales share of the $2.3m in additional allocations for adult migrant education programs announced last Tuesday night? Can the Minister say how the allocation to New South Wales for 1977-78 compares with allocations in recent years? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations noted a report in today's Press that the United States has withdrawn from the International Labour Organisation? Is it a fact that the reason for the United State's action is that the International Labour Organisation had in reality become a forum for communists or Third World political activities at the expense of its main and real work, namely, improving the conditions of workers around the world? Will the Minister inform the Senate what contributions are being made by the Commonwealth Government to that body and further what is the Commonwealth Government's attitude towards the ILO's misuse of its proper functions? 
-Can the Minister for Education, in view of certain recent speculation, inform the Senate whether the Government has any intention of introducing fees for foreign students attending Australian universities, or for students undertaking second degrees? 
-I refer to the question that I asked yesterday of the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations concerning the International Labour Organisation. Has the Minister any further information on the matter and, in particular, on this Government's attitude to the decision of the United States of America? 
Can the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs inform the Senate of the effects of new federalism on local government rates? 
-We are debating the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill. We have just heard a long, 50 minutes, tirade by  Senator Button.  Out of that 50 minutes, the honourable senator dedicated an entire seven minutes to the Special 
Broadcasting Service which as we all know provides for the establishment of a multilingual broadcasting service and a multilingual television service. This shows clearly how important the Opposition views the service which will provide the large ethnic community of this country with broadcasting and television services which are different from those which the Opposition when in government tried to establish. 
I congratulate the Government and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on this new Bill and particularly for introducing proposed new section 79d which, in part, states: 
The functions of the Service are- 
to provide multilingual broadcasting services and if authorised by the regulations, to provide multilingual television services; and 
I feel that by including that provision in the Bill which will provide multilingual broadcasting and television services, the Government has realised that the term 'ethnic broadcasting' as such is a misnomer because in fact it is a multilingual broadcasting service which provides for different ethnic groups but which also provides for people who understand more than one language and who are not necessarily of a certain ethnic community. 
I refer now to the second reading speech of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  in which he said:   the Government believes it has a responsibility to determine the components of the system . . . 
He went on to say: 
This contrasts with the casual, incompetent manner in which the previous Government responded to the demands for public broadcasting, particularly in its doubtful method of licensing such stations under the Wireless Telegraphy Act. 
He went on to say: 
The principle of a broadcasting system not subject to political interference is one of the basic aims of the changes proposed in this Bill. 
Further in his speech, the Minister said: 
I turn now to those types of broadcasting services described as 'special purpose'. The Government has been conscious of a need for the Australian broadcasting system to provide basic broadcasting services to the whole community and not just to parts of the community. Over one-quarter of the people in Australia did not have what must be considered a basic broadcasting service, that is, a service in their mother tongue. We inherited from the previous Administration a poorly organised, inadequate multilingual broadcasting service and have sought to respond to a need by Australia's ethnic communities for a more comprehensive broadcasting service. 
The Government decided to establish a permanent framework, not only for ethnic broadcasting services, but also for other types of special broadcasting services which may be considered necessary or desirable in the future. 
I now refer to the Opposition's amendment which  Senator Button  explained to us during his 50 minute speech. It is worth noting that the Opposition opposes the Bill as a whole. That means that it is also opposes the provision of broadcasting services for ethnic communities. Despite all the talk from members of the Opposition about their interest in ethnic communities and multilingual broadcasting - 
This is quite clear from paragraph (b) of the amendment which states:  the functions of the proposed Special Broadcasting Service are vague and imprecise and do not provide adequate machinery for the provision of ethnic broadcasting services; 
I wonder whether the honourable senator would like to see these services continue on an ad hoc basis as was the case under the previous socialist Government? The fact is that the proposed SBS will be advised by the nominees of different ethnic groups. They will not be appointed by the Minister as was the case under the socialist Government. 

 Senator Button also talked about the mock transfer of power. Does the honourable senator really mean to say that he would like to see the Minister dictate to the Tribunal? Is that his idea of the way in which a socialist government should deal with tribunals? Later,  Senator Button  referred to what cynics say about the granting of licences. I would like to find out what the cymes say about a certain  Mr Kaldis.  Do honourable senators know who  Mr Kaldis  is? Is he an apolitical man, a man who is not interested in politics? He is the man who holds the present licence for radio station 2EA in Sydney. He was appointed by the previous Minister for the Media and has been granted a licence. I am sure that many honourable senators will be surprised to find out that  Mr Kaldis  was recently nominated by a political party- the Australian Labor Party- as its candidate for a seat in the New South Wales Legislative Council. Is that what the honourable senator means by the apolitical running of ethnic broadcasting? Is  Mr Kaldis  a person who is not interested in politics? 

 Senator Button also mentioned how the Special Broadcasting Service shows the patronising attitude of the Liberal and National Country Parties towards migrants and ethnic communities. I am fascinated by that and would like to find out how many migrants are in top executive positions in trade unions, how many of them represent the tremendous power - 
I am talking about continental migrants, non-English speaking migrants. I am one of them. How many of our colleagues on the socialist side in this or the other chamber have a continental background? There is not one. I must admit that there is one, not in this chamber but in another place, but he does not want to say where he was born. Nobody knows where he was born but he claims that he is an Italian when it suits him and an Austrian or some other nationality when it suits him. If the Opposition wants authorities to be representative of the community, I would like to find out whether there are migrants in executive positions in the socialist camp. 
They do not seem to have. In the discussion on the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill in the other place the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  said, among other things: 
Under the proposed special broadcasting service and the guidelines laid down by the Minister, ethnic broadcasting will be potentially subject to strict political control. 
Later on he said: 
The main lesson to be learnt from the experience of ethnic broadcasting to date is the need for financial autonomy and program independence. 
At its conference in Perth the Australian Labor Party resolved, among other things, that a Labor government would 'develop ethnic radio as a facility controlled by ethnic communities themselves, not by Ministers'. If ever an ethnic broadcasting service was directed by a Minister it was under the socialist Government, not under our Government. Let us look at who controls ethnic radio and at what  Dr Cass  said when he appointed the new Ethnic Radio Committees. He said: 
At the moment the Government is nominating the members. Eventually, however, members will be elected by the language groups themselves. 
Eventually! That never happened because the communities were never consulted by the socialist Government. It is only now - 
Of the honourable senator I would like to ask: When 2EA and the national ethnic radio committee were established and  Mr Jim  Bayutti was appointed  chairman  and  Mr Brian  White was appointed national director, who appointed them? Nobody but  Dr Cass  and  Dr Spigelman  in consultation with  Mr Grassby. 

 Senator Button spoke about political influence. What has happened even in the last two years in ethnic radio? There was no political bias- certainly not- because any time anyone wanted to say something against the socialist view it was not allowed because it was said to be political. When anyone wanted to say something in favour of the present Government it was not allowed because it also was political. Those decisions were made on certain guidelines which were prepared by Al Grassby and company. Even today certain organisations which are not in line with the political views of controllers or co-ordinators are unable to present their view. This is interesting and I would like to quote from a publication which I have obtained from the Parliamentary Library entitled  Review of International Affairs,  published in Belgrade. It contained the annual report of the General Secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and dealt with the social organisation of Yugoslav citizens temporarily employed abroad. In the second paragraph the General Secretary stated: 
The Presidency notes that the organisation of clubs, societies and other forms of association by Yugoslav citizens abroad has arisen from their needs and interests, that it has reached an important level and strongly fosters their ties with the homeland, patriotism, successful social selfprotection, resistance to  assimilation  and other negative influences . . . 
Later on he stated: 
It is particularly important to provide for a regular daily objective informing of our citizens about events at home and in the world (in radio news programmes and in other ways) . . . 
They are explicit instructions by certain elements that are forcing their points of view on some of the broadcasters today. Therefore, those points of view are heard daily on the ethnic radio stations in Sydney and Melbourne and they are damaging the process of integration of many migrants into Australian society. The Special Broadcasting Service will be established, despite the opposition of the socialist party to it. In 1976 a consultative committee on ethnic broadcasting heard submissions in Sydney. It received about 250 submissions. The majority view of those submissions was that the ethnic communities do not want ethnic broadcasting to be provided by a private organisation, as  Senator Button  mentioned, but to be funded wholly by the Government and to be run by the Government. It would be an independent organisation of the type to be provided by the Special Broadcasting Service. The Government established the National Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Council in January 1977 to advise it on policy and future development of ethnic broadcasting services. The 
Government has just announced the establishment of State committees, called State Ethnic Broadcasting Advisory Committees, in New South Wales and Victoria. 
I mentioned earlier that the appointees to these bodies were nominated by their respective ethnic communities. Each ethnic community has nominated a certain number of persons from its own community to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson).  From those nominees the Minister appointed Committee members, but not without consultation as  Dr Cass  did. A Press statement released by the Minister states that other functions of the Committees will include:  to develop ongoing consultations with ethnic organisations and provide a focal point for all matters relating to ethnic broadcasting in the State; to advise the SBS on the extent to which the Broadcasting time available and the scope, standard and content of ethnic radio programs reflect the needs and interests of the ethnic communities concerned; and to keep the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, similarly informed. 
If we look at the names of these persons who were nominated and appointed, we find that 19 people came from each State and that all of them were not Australian bora. 
I wish now to deal with the role of the SBS as I see it. I believe that the SBS will have two main functions: The first will be in regard to new settlers or new arrivals and the second will be in regard to already established communities. I think that the first function should be to inform new settlers from ethnic communities, which have no organisations or only very small organisations, about their new environment, the Australian way of life, the availability of services and to teach them English, which I feel is very important. Once and for all we should discontinue that beautiful Australian Broadcasting Commission program called 'Teaching English to Migrants' which is broadcast at 6 a.m. It is absolutely useless and has no effect on anybody. 
With regard to the second function of the Special Broadcasting Service, I think that established communities need and desire to be provided with music from their old countries, traditional customs, theatre and literature. They would like also a program to teach their sons and daughters about the origins of characteristics in their old countries. Finally, I think that both functions-with regard to new settlers and already established communities- should emphasise another point which I think is tremendously important: That is to inform the so-called old Australians about the countries from which the new settlers have come so that Australians in general will be able to understand and be more tolerant towards the different customs. Customs are different in every country and perhaps vary in different parts of a country. It is also important that this type of broadcasting would help the studies of 350,000 Australian-born students who are learning a language other than English. It would be of tremendous importance to teachers and all those educators who are in daily contact with the sons and daughters of migrants who have recently arrived in this country. I have found that many Australian teachers- up to 75 per cent of their pupils having come from some other country- find difficulty in understanding the behaviour of migrant children because they do not understand or know nothing about the habits and customs of those countries. I am sure that these educators would find it a tremendous help if they understood those customs. It would solve many of their problems. 
I am delighted that this Bill is before the Senate and that it will be passed intact. It will provide a most important regular service. It will not be an ad hoc service. It will be a service which reflects the wishes of all ethnic communities and organisations, not just the wishes of some people appointed by a socialist Minister. 
During one of the speeches in the Address-in-Reply debate an honourable senator mentioned that he was 'jolted out of his slumbers' when the Governor-General read a certain passage in his Speech. I am not surprised that the honourable senator was jolted out of his slumbers. The passage which  His Excellency  was reading is as follows: 
By devoting all its energies to these goals, by emphasising those things that unite all Australians, my Government will strive to realise the hope and vision of every Australian- an Australia rich in opportunity for all its people to live the life they choose, fully and freely. 
I consider that passage one of the most important parts, if not the most important part of His Excellency's Speech. It dennes in a sentence the basic and most important difference between the philosophies of the Liberal Party and the socialist parties of Australia. It emphasises the issue which I consider the vital and decisive factor which decided the results of the last two Federal elections. The people of Australia had an opportunity for three long year to sample a socialist government. Those 3 years proved clearly to them what they can expect from a socialist regime. They have realised that under a socialist regime they have no hope of achieving their ambitions. They have no hope of achieving their visions, whatever they may be. Those opportunities will be limited to a section of the population. There will be no possibility for people to choose the life they want. There will be no possibility of people living their lives fully and, more importantly, freely. They have sampled the kind of life the socialist parties have in store for them. A former member of the Parliament called it a disciplined society. The goal of the socialist parties is to have a disciplined society, and we all know what kind of society that is. The Australian people have seen in action the regime of a small, select elite living in an ivory tower- an allknowing elite which was or would have been the final arbiter of the way of life that small elite would select as best for all of us. 
During this debate much has been said about the role and conduct of Parliament in Australia. We all know Parliament is popularly viewed with ridicule and cynicism, and that it is believed that it has no worthwhile role in the mainstream of government administration and that generally the Australian people hold this institution in very low esteem. While I wholeheartedly dispute those ideas, I feel that the value and relevance of this institution are being questioned far more now than ever before. It is the responsibility of all members actively to disprove this criticism and, by their conduct and diligence, to ensure that the dignity and respect in which our Parliament is mostly held is deserved and maintained. Much of the criticism revolves around the code of conduct adhered to by members themselves. In pan this is reflected by the standard of debate characteristic of this chamber. One speech delivered during the current session would vindicate any such criticism of the Parliament and make cynicism the order of the day. If it exemplified all speeches delivered in the Address-in-Reply debate, it casts Parliament into the wilderness as an expensive anachronism. 
I refer to the speech of  Senator James  McClelland. The honourable senator quoted  Senator Button.  He stated:   . . the greatest threat confronting this country is cynicism, a corrosive, insidious, slow acting poison. 
How true that is. If an Oscar were awarded for the most cynical speech I am sure  Senator James  McClelland would qualify for it. I wonder how many people inside or outside the Parliament who heard the honourable senator deliver his speech have ever heard such a vitriolic, vindictive, vicious and vulgar speech. 
The speech was made by a man whom many of us consider to be a highly intellectual, welleducated and well brought up person. We all looked forward to having him in this chamber again and to hearing his contributions to the debates. What a disillusionment. 
What upset me most was that the person in question was, I believe,  Senator James  McClelland 's long-standing friend and partner. It may be that my notion of friendship is a strange one. It is definitely not similar to that of the honourable senator opposite. How many of us have been at one time or other in our lives disillusioned with some of our friends? What is friendship for? Is it only for the time when everything is nice and tidy and friendly and easy, or is it only for convenience? Is it not for the time when we or our friends have difficulties, worries or what seem to be unsolvable problems. During my lifetime, and particularly during the last war, I have known of persons of both sexes who have risked their lives for a friend. What is even more telling is that they risked their lives for the sake of saving a friend who very often was of a different political persuasion. However, do we not say that a friend in need is a friend indeed? Somebody long ago said that 'cynicism is intellectual dandyism' and I must say that I found that description very apt when I listened to the honourable senator opposite.  Senator James  McClelland referred to the standards of political life in Australia in the following terms:   . . I see no solution to our problems in disorder or bloodshed. But if a large enough section of the population comes to believe that the game is rigged and if the proponents of reasonable reform are just not given a fair go within the democratic process, the day of the urban guerrilla may arrive in this country earlier than people believe. 
It would be interesting to analyse the honourable senator's statement to find out what he really meant. I am convinced that the first sentence is sincere and genuine, but I am intrigued by the next sentence, which refers to a 'large enough section of the population'. I wonder what is a large enough section of the population? Was the honourable senator referring to the minority number of members of Duma who dismissed the majority by occupying the parliament with the militia of the Bolshevik Party? How and why would the population believe or become convinced that the game is rigged? Who would tell them that? Or was the honourable senator implying that that was so? Further on, the statement became more interesting. The honourable senator said: 
. if the proponents of reasonable reform are just not given a fair go . . . 
I ask: What is reasonable reform? Reasonable reform may mean something different to me from what it means to my son. Who will decide what is reasonable reform? 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was discussing a passage in a speech by  Senator James  McClelland and asking the question: Who will decide what is reasonable reform and a fair go within democratic process? Does the honourable senator imply that the 1975 and 1977 elections were not a fair go, or that elections as we have them here are not a democratic process? I wonder if he would prefer some other kind of elections, such as they have in some of the so-called people 's democracies, elections which are held every blue, or should I say, red moon, and then on only one day. We all know what kind of elections those are: There is one party, one candidate and one leader. 
Finally, I would like to find out whether the passage in the honourable senator's speech was just thinly veiled blackmail, or maybe a warning or, even more, a signal to action for the guerillas. Does he intend that, in case something happens, he will be able to say: 'Didn't I say so?' Maybe then he will say to us: 'You are guilty; you have provoked urban guerillas. ' Will he say: ' Well, I understand them. They are quite right. They were provoked. ' Or maybe he was just maintaining the rage which his ex-leader urged his supporters to maintain. 
Parliament represents a forum where contemporary problems can be debated, their solutions discussed and popular myths surrounding them refuted. Immigration is one such subject that I hope will be debated at length during this session, if only to overcome some of the popular myths which surround it. There are many myths in Australia about immigration and several of them have been aired since this Parliament resumed. 
I was really surprised when  Senator James  McClelland retorted to my interjection by saying that I was a friend of Hitler. I must admit that I did not expect such a retort from a gentleman of his intellectual standing in the community. That is the kind of retort used by an ignorant person who has no better argument to counter that of his opponent. But then, socialists everywhere in the world, including Australia, describe as fascists all who do not agree with them. The Australian Labor Party, although claiming to be the champion of the migrants, automatically considers anyone who speaks with an accent and comes from Europe as a fascist. 
Who does not remember  Mr Whitlam  's statement about Baltic nations? The Labor Party apparently has never heard of Monte Cassino in Italy, where tens and tens of thousands of Polish soldiers died fighting the Germans. Do they call fascists those who survived that fight and are here today? It is an insult to all who suffered brutality under the fascists, whether of the left or right. To be called fascist is an insult to all loyal Australians after 25 years of residence here; and that by a socialist party which has been described by one of its prophets, the great Stalin himself- on that occasion speaking of the Social Democrats- as 'twin brothers of fascism'. 
Recently  Dr Cass,  the shadow Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, aired certain myths about immigration. He stated that immigration should be cut to the bone. I should like  Dr Cass  to go to the ethnic Press and to the ethnic clubs and tell them that. I would like to see what their reaction would be. The statement of  Dr Cass  clearly shows Labor's discrimination against migrants and exemplifies the Labor Party's position on that subject, which can only be compared with that of Hitler's Germany. We all know that Hitler used a certain minority in Germany as a scapegoat for all the problems of that country. This is what Labor is doing today in Australia. The Labor Party is saying: 'Who but the migrants are the cause of all our problems. They are the cause of unemployment. Therefore, sack the migrants and prevent them from coming here. ' That is what they are saying. 

 Dr Cass also stated that the intake of migrants this year will be 80,000 persons. 'This is absurd,' he said, 'when we have this high level of unemployment'. By quoting such a figure he showed his ignorance of the whole problem. He had simply doubled the gross figure for the first six months of the current financial year, forgetting that during that time we received many refugees from different countries. The fact is that the net intake is almost certainly less than half the figure upon which he based his calculations. When it is discounted for the migrants who will never enter the work force the threat to the unemployed is really small. 
Secondly, he accuses the Government of recruiting workers, with unspecified skills, from foreign countries at the expense of Australian workers. There are three main categories under which migrants are admitted to this country today. One is skill. The other two are family reunion and refugee, and these two have been expanded considerably. Whilst the Government is certainly attempting to overcome current and projected shortages of skilled manpower, the avenue of immigration is only one of those that are to be followed. The policy for an immigration program certainly is not based purely on such economic criteria. The Government's immigration policy is not as  Dr Cass  asserts, singularly devoted to the goal of economic growth. Rather, it sees such a consideration as integral to a whole range of goals. Economists could present innumerable papers on the economic benefits 
Australia has derived from its immigration program. Sociologists could provide similar evidence but  Dr Cass  has chosen to quote from only one such paper and has disregarded endless evidence by the economists demonstrating the economic benefits this country has derived from the migrants.  Dr Cass  is certainly perpetuating myths and one can only hope that with sufficient debate and circulation of information they are refuted permanently. 
Before I finish my remarks I would like to quote from a statement made by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  He said: 
In the field of population, our action or inaction today will have a permanent effect upon the future size or composition of our population, its age structure, the worker/dependent ratio and other characteristics of vital importance to Australia. We must also recognise that major changes in the size or composition of the population take many years to come about and that we cannot, therefore, dismiss the task of demographic planning for our future as something that can be left for another time when our immediate problems will be less pressing. 
Finally, I would like to congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech and I wish her well for her brief period in this House. I oppose the amendment proposed by the Leader of the Opposition and I support the motion moved by  Senator Walters  and seconded by  Senator Collard. 
Has the Minister for Education seen an article in today's  Sydney Morning Herald  which claims that government school teachers have lost their voice on the Schools Commission? Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps he is taking to give teachers a voice on the Schools Commission? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. A recent article in a major newspaper on 8 March reported that a large international hotel chain had offered an Australian wine producer a contract for supplying its hotels with Australian wines. The article alleged that the producer apparently was not even interested enough to reply to its inquiries. Will the Minister approach the Minister for Industry and Commerce and inquire whether he is aware of this case? Will the Minister advise the 
Senate of the relevance of it and similar cases to considerations of assistance for this industry? Further, will he make information available as to what efforts and incentives Australian Government agencies undertake and provide to encourage and facilitate wine export promotion overseas? 
I ask the Minister for Education whether his attention has been drawn to a report in this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  containing criticism of the Federal Government by the New South Wales  Deputy  Premier and Minister for Public Works,  Mr Ferguson.  Can the Minister inform the Senate of the facts surrounding the allegations of delay in the construction of the Alexander Mackie College of Advanced Education at Oatley in Sydney? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact, as the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  has recently claimed, that the current cutbacks in the building of freeways in Sydney is due to a reduction in Commonwealth road grants? Has  Mr Wran  announced that he will seek an additional $50m for roads at the June Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Recent Press reports allege that the attempts of Soviet workers to organise themselves into proper trade unions and for them to be recognised as such by the International Labour Organisation have been met by severe repressive measures by the Soviet Government. Could the Minister approach the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and inquire whether he is aware of the situation? If so, would the Minister, in view of Australia's membership and continuing substantial financial support for the ILO, ensure through our representatives on that body that the ILO would investigate and act positively in favour of Soviet workers' rights and interests? 
I oppose vigorously the matter of public importance offered by  Senator Grimes.  The wording, 'The damage to community relations and the reputation of our system of justice resulting from the conduct of the authorities, . . . ' should read 'from the conduct of the media'. I feel that the media are responsible. This is not the first time that it has singled out a certain national group, not the first time that migrants have been classified as being members of a particular national group. Whether the situation involves Italians, Greeks, Croats, Serbs or Germans, the media always blows up the whole thing to such a degree that real damage occurs to community relations. 
It is absolutely ridiculous to say that it is the authorities who damage community relations. If there is one section which damages community relations, it is the media. Another is the Australian Labor Party Whenever it suits the Labor Party it cries hypocritical crocodile tears for a certain community. We still remember former  Senator Murphy  and his midnight raids on the homes of the Croatian population. 
I am delighted, Madam Acting  Deputy President,  that a member of the Opposition has shown his true colours by labelling a whole national group with the crimes of a few. Does  Senator Gietzelt  mean to say that all of the Greek community should be blamed for the misdeeds of a very few of them? Is that what he is saying? Is that the proposition that the Labor Party is putting? Do honourable senators remember- I am sure somebody will- that recently  Senator O  'Byrne accused the whole Croat population, the whole Serbian population of this country, of being terrorists and fascists. I should like to know whether that gentleman and some of his colleagues on the other side of the chamber would be as vocal in their defence of some other national group as they are of the Greek national group. The point I make is this: We are talking about Australian citizens of Greek origin; we are talking about Australian citizens of Croatian origin and we are talking about Australian citizens of Italian origin. But whenever a person who was not born in this country does something which is not according to the law, the media in general, that is, the Press, radio and television, label that person according to his origin. Whenever a person not born in Australia becomes, say, a sportsman of the year or a beauty queen, the media will never label them as an 'Italian man', or a Greek girl'. It will always say: 'Look at those Australians. How good we are'. The whole point is that unless the media takes the responsibility it ought to take to present the facts as they are and realises that it is dealing with Australian citizens, regardless of their origin, then we will have further examples of what is happening how in this country. 
When  Senator Grimes  spoke during the adjournment debate on 10 April 1978, he said: 
It is unfortunate that this case has been associated with just one community, namely, the Greek community. It may be that a person or persons unknown took advantage of the fact that there are many people of Greek descent whose English is inadequate and whose knowledge of our laws and our ways is scanty. In this case members of the Greek community were responsible for the situation coming to the public eye, as the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has said in answers to questions in this place. In doing so-- 
And let me remind you, Madam Acting  Deputy President,  that these are the words of  Senator Grimes-  the Greek community showed the sense of responsibility that it normally shows in our community. 
When  Senator Grimes  finished making that speech I congratulated him because I felt that he had been very sincere. But when I read the terms of this matter of public importance today, I felt that he was using migrants, as such, only for the purpose of political gain. All of the ethnic papers are unanimous in castigating the Australian Press and its role. On 6 April 1978, the  II Corriere Di Settegiorni  newspaper said: 
We will not say anything about the role of the Australian Press. Their illness is incurable. 
On 1 1 April 1978, the  Maltese Herald  said: 
Australian newspapers discriminate. 
The Australian Press is still discriminating blatantly against migrants. 
All ethnic newspapers are unanimous in their reports about this particular case that if it were not for the indecent publicity, the unreal publicity, the scandal-type publicity of the Australian media, this situation would not have happened. Unfortunately I see that most of the media reporters have left the gallery, apart from a single lovely girl. I wonder how much of what I am saying tonight will be reported tomorrow in the Press. 
I am sure it will be very little. 
That is right; because I am not abusing anybody. But the media should take note of my remarks. I really plead with the media, for the sake of community relations, for the sake of the well-being of the understanding between various national groups, the various people who come to this country to settle down and to integrate themselves in our society, to lead free lives, to let them do so. That is the function of the media and if they undertake that responsibility the whole process will be much easier to achieve. 
I emphasise the fact that statements like that made by  Senator Grimes  that Government instrumentalities have discriminated against one particular group are wrong. What nonsense! Those who discriminate against this particular group are the media and the Labor Party, which wants to make political capital out of the situation. I hope that the socialists on the other side of the chamber will realise that by pandering to one national group which it thinks will vote for it, it will not get those votes because the majority of migrants in Australia, those who really want to settle down, realise that the socialists are only using them as a political football. I oppose this matter of public importance. 
Is the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs aware that concern has been expressed by some local government bodies about the financial situation of local government? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether he has been approached for more Commonwealth assistance and, if so, how the current level of assistance to local government compares with that of previous years? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest statistics available covering the motor vehicle industry? Is it a fact that total registrations in April, seasonally adjusted, were at their highest monthly level since July last year? 
-I ask the Minister for Education whether he has seen a report in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 24 May in which  Mr Van  Davy, the  President  of the Australian Teachers Federation, is quoted as saying: 
The current criticisms of the education system  . . can be answered in one word: funding. 
Could the Minister inform the Senate of the facts in relation to the funding of government and non-government schools? 

 Opposition senators interjecting- 

-Is the Minister for Education aware of recent reports of State inquiries into post-secondary education? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the latest report of the Tertiary Education Commission contains information bearing on this matter? Has the Government formed a view concerning the need to rationalise post-secondary institutions? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development inform the Senate of the progress that has been made in the rehabilitation program for the Glebe Estate in Sydney? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. The Minister recently quoted figures purporting to be the percentage rises in wages during the time of the Whitlam Government. Can the Minister give the precise figures involved? 
I present the following petition from 56 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the means test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the means test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a 'right and not a charity'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Could the Minister for Education provide the Senate with the latest projections on primary and secondary school enrolments in Australia? 
Firstly, I congratulate you,  Mr President,  on again becoming the  President  of the Senate. I look forward to serving under your guidance. Secondly, I wish to congratulate the new senators,  Senator Tate  and  Senator Evans,  on their maiden speeches. I remember well how I felt when I was preparing for that task. I must again say how much I appreciated their first speeches. I am looking forward to further speeches from them. 
This Budget has been described by people who claim to have a monopoly on humanity and on morality as inhuman, immoral and violent. Yet these are the same people who incited people to acts such as we saw perpetrated in Sydney recently. These socialists have again changed their title. They are now calling themselves democratic socialists because somebody in Sydney- I believe it was  Mr Ducker-  found out that socialism as such is a discredited ideology. So, once again, we see this typical change of front by a major political party- from Labor to socialist to democratic socialist- in a very brief time. I wonder how the Labor Party will be described next. 
Short mention of an alternative Budget was made by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt). Senator Evans,  who preceded me in this debate, had all the problems solved in 20 minutes flat. Not only was he able to solve them, but apparently he reckons that he is an expert on everything. I do not say that I know how to solve all the problems. Therefore, I divert the attention of this Senate to a section of the Budget which I feel is of vital importance to this country. I refer to 'Manufacturing and Other Industry Assistance' set out on page 13 of the Budget Speech. Under that heading it is stated: 
The policies  of this  Government have been of major assistance to Australian manufacturing industry. 
We have reduced inflation substantially and started to reduce interest rates- developments critical to industry confidence and prospects. 
Our new export incentives scheme has been announced and this Budget provides a total of $58m by way of direct assistance to exporters, $27m more than last year. 
Despite the difficult  budgetry  position, $24m is being provided for industrial research and development grants in 1978-79; $ 1 Om more than last year. 
This increase will support important new initiatives and is designed to improve the efficiency and international competitiveness of Australian industry. 
In addition, over $ 1 m will be provided to support productivity improvement programs in industry. 
So it goes on. This Budget confirms our Government's policy which has always been that it is the private sector wherein the major part of the nation's wealth is to be found, wherein the majority of employment opportunities lies and wherein the future prosperity of this country resides. The Government has always attempted to create an environment in which to promote private sector confidence and profitability. The basis of this policy has been the reduction of inflation, the reduction of interest rates and the strict control of the Budget deficit. This Budget maintains this general policy thrust. The Government achieved a substantial reduction in the deficit on last year's outcome and managed to reduce substantially the rate of inflation. The fact that this Government has reduced inflation in a short period has been noted by economists not only in this country but throughout the rest of the Western world. The Government has also begun to reduce the prevailing rate of interest. Estimates for the next financial year show that if all goes according to plan, inflation will be down to five per cent by mid 1979. That certainly is a tremendous achievement in a short period and under difficult conditions. 
The general strategy of this Budget should be of considerable benefit to industries. We all know that Australian manufacturing industries are having problems which are not limited only to Australia but are being experienced worldwide, particularly in Western democracies. Apart from these overall measures contained in the Budget, the Budget also continues support for many measures which are specifically designed to assist industry. As well as giving financial endorsement to new proposals, the Government is giving continued support to the trading stock valuation adjustment scheme and to the investment allowance. Both these schemes are of considerable assistance to industry. They will encourage industry to adopt new technology, new measures, to acquire new machinery, which will result in an improved productivity growth rate, which will definitely be reflected in higher wages, higher profits and the general wealth of the Australian population. The measures I have outlined, taken together with the trading stock valuation scheme, have meant that more than $820m has been forgone in taxation in 1 977-78. That, we must admit, is a substantial subsidy. 
The Budget contains an increased commitment to industrial research and development. Indeed, the Government allocation has increased from $ 13.5m to $24m in 1978-79. This follows the stated policy of the Government in this field. Government support has been spread over specific purpose grants, commencement grants and direct Government financial assistance for major industrial research projects. All this assistance will further promote innovation within Australian industry which is so necessary to its survival. This is a natural compliment to the new export incentives scheme afforded by this Budget. These measures will encourage growth in and into competitive areas of manufacturing industry. The aim of the export incentives scheme is mainly to encourage Australian firms to increase their export drive- more actively pursue export opportunities- and sales. All this is in accordance with the Government's longstanding policy of developing an internationally competitive, export oriented and efficient Australian industry. 
The Budget provides a package which includes financial provision for a wide range of export development activities. I will enumerate them now and then deal separately with each one of them: Firstly, export incentives; secondly, export promotion programs both for the manufacturing and rural sectors; thirdly, the Australian Trade Commissioner Service; fourthly, the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation; fifthly, the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation; sixthly, the promotion of Australian consulting and construction contracting services overseas; and finally the export of Australian technology. I deal firstly with the export incentives grant scheme. This is a new scheme which will provide for the payment of taxable cash grants to exporters. Payments will be based in general on increases in the value of exports of eligible goods and services in the grant year over the average value for the previous three years. The major feature of this new export incentives grant scheme is a formula which is both cumulative and based on a sliding scale. That means that the rate of payment has been scaled down for larger increases in exports and is based on increases in export earnings. This has two favourable effects. Firstly, it should favour smaller exporters over larger exporters. 
At this point I would like to refer to the Industries Assistance Committee report on export incentives which stated that evidence indicated that about 60 per cent of the grants paid in the 1974-75 grant year were for amounts below $5,000 and that only six per cent were for amounts over $50,000. This would suggest that the largest number of grants went to small firms. As the report also said, it is very important that we remember that the benefit of these grants goes to smaller exporters. It stated: 

 EMD grants received by smaller exporters were generally a greater proportion of the value of their exports than grants received by the larger exporters . . . The data suggest that the importance of grants to smaller exporters was greater, relative to export returns, than to larger exporters. 
The scheme means that a small increase in exports does not necessarily imply that the company obtaining this result is a small company but that a small company is unlikely to obtain a very large increase in exports. Therefore, small companies are more likely than large companies to receive benefits from the new scheme at a high rate of grant for small increases in exports. This is a very important factor. 
The IAC report also mentioned that evidence revealed a considerable reluctance by many small and medium sized firms to undertake the risk involved in exporting or attempting to break into export and overseas markets. The risk to the small firm is much greater than that for a larger firm, which is quite logical, and this aspect of this new scheme is very favourable to a small exporter. Further, an incentive tied only to increases in exports also restricts the cost to the taxpayers. There was some criticism that these grants should not be made and that the cost of these grants should not be borne by the taxpayers. The scheme is designed to provide incentives to those export sectors that will be most responsive to such incentives. It does not waste money on exports which are relatively unresponsive to price increases or in situations where our ability to supply more of a product is limited. For instance, the exclusion from this scheme of minerals, wheat, sugar and so on sold to the United States of America and Canada under quota is likely to occur for this reason. The incentives are to be paid to the actual exporter. If the firm which produced the goods is not the actual exporter it will gain the advantage of increased production. But the financial advantages of the scheme will accrue to the firm which actually found the markets to sustain this increased production. Some criticism has been expressed in relation to that aspect, and I intend to deal with it in detail later. 
Fiscal stringency in relation to this scheme has been achieved, firstly, by tying incentive payments only to the increase in export receipts over and above the average export receipts for the base period rather than to the total export receipts; secondly, by scaling down the rate of payment for larger increases in exports; and, further, by making the grants taxable. Such a subsidy will compensate exporters for the high tariff structure. The later has resulted in export manufacturers buying their inputs at prices above those on the world market and then having to sell their products at world market prices. The Industries Assistance Commission estimated these extra costs to our export market producers at $130m for the manufacturing industries alone. 
Unlike more explicit export subsidy schemes, this scheme does not provoke retaliation in trade, as would countervailing duties or quotas. But there are some problems with this scheme. One of them is that the effectiveness of this scheme, which is based on increases in exports, will depend greatly on the world's trading climate. When exporters are faced with a slackening in growth in world trade, this type of incentive will not ensure the survival of more marginal exports. For instance, in cases where the survival of exports- or even their maintenance at current levels, let alone their expansion- is at stake, this type of export incentive will do nothing to assist exporters. This scheme, for instance, does not contain provision for changes in export prices and exchange rates. Changes in the latter do not truly reflect real changes in exports and thus do not indicate increased export effort- that which it is the aim to reward. One of the main criticisms of this scheme is that there appears to be no local content criteria, except in relation to value added industrial services which are provided in Australia and which are performed on imported goods subsequently exported. Export sales do not indicate local content; yet it is local content which indicates the size of increases in employment and in foreign exchange which we gain. 
The Australian Overseas Projects Corporation is a new corporation. The Bill to establish the Corporation was introduced in the Senate on 1 7 August. The Corporation has been established to assist Australian industry to compete for large scale developments overseas. It will be a small specialist organisation which will be initially financed by the Federal Government. A massive expansion in investment in large scale development projects in developing countries during the last 10 years has influenced the Government to establish this Corporation. No single firm in Australia would be large enough or diversified enough to be able to compete against huge overseas concerns which have the full support of their governments. This Corporation will encompass a range of activities from design to construction and purchase of equipment. 
It is stated by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in his second reading speech on the Australian Overseas Projects Corporation Bill that the Corporation will have the following functions: It will provide information to Australian firms of opportunities overseas. It will assist to negotiate with foreign governments or organisations. It will provide a special expertise available to the Government and it will be able to carry out the whole or part of an overseas development project at the request of Australian private organisations. The actual work would be carried out on behalf of the Corporation by Australian private organisations. 
I turn to the section of the Budget which deals with the Australian Trade Commissioner Service. I feel that the Australian Trade Commissioner Service can be rated as one of the best in the world. We have proof of that. Many foreign governments have asked our Trade Commissioner Service to advise them on its composition and role. The Government has acknowledged in the Budget that the Trade Commissioner Service is a vital link in our export drive. The Government has therefore given the Service the financial endorsement which will give it more scope and more possibility for expansion and activity in promoting overseas trade. The objective of the Trade Commissioner Service is to develop and strengthen Australian bilateral trade and economic relations with host countries and to maintain Australian multilateral trading relationships. It achieves this objective by fostering valuable relationships with Australian exporters and prospective importers. 
We must make sure that the trade commissioners who are posted overseas have two qualities: The first is a deep knowledge of Australian business and marketing problems. The second, which I rate even higher, is a knowledge of the country to which they are posted. It is quite incomprehensible to me how someone goes to a foreign country with a different language, cultural background and history can, in the absence of a deep knowledge of that country, understand it and negotiate on behalf of Australian exporters. 
It is also vitally important that the term of the trade commissioner at each post be not less than three years. I would advocate a minimum of five years. I have participated in many arguments on that point, but I believe that no one can understand in the brief period of two or three years the character of a foreign country, a different culture, or how such a community thinks and negotiates. It is a waste of manpower that some of our expert trade commissioners should learn the language of an area, find out how the people think and then be transferred to a completely opposite kind of country with completely different attitudes, language, customs and culture. This is a point which we should keep in mind. 
I deal next with the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation. Through this facility the Government, using funds derived from trading banks at commercial interest rates, provides loans on internationally competitive terms in support of exports of machinery and capital equipment. Since its introduction the facility has supported the winning of contracts valued at some $ 130m. 
The Budget also provides support for productivity improvement programs in industry. This whole package, with the Government's policy of promoting wider consultation with industry, wider recognition of its problems, and a wider understanding of the direction of its development and growth, represents the major aspects of a broad-ranging support aimed at promoting the development of export-oriented industries by assisting manufacturers and producers to seek overseas opportunities. 
It is an impressive list of measures. It is a Budget of reality. It is a Budget of economic responsibility. I feel that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in framing these decisions has been guided by the desire that burdens be shared fairly throughout the Australian community. I support it and commend it to the Senate. 
I refer the Minister representing the Treasurer to the latest August issue of  Round-up of Economic Statistics  and I ask: Do the latest Treasury statistics indicate that the States enjoyed ample revenue funds in the last financial year, contrary to the predictions of Labor Premiers and Opposition senators in this Parliament? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the facts concerning State governments' expenditure? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: Is the national economic recovery being stifled by the stagnant economic situation in New South Wales? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest statistics on new investment in New South Wales? 
I believe that some of the honourable senators opposite are able to read the newspapers. Further, is it a fact that the statistics demonstrate that New South Wales has fallen from its traditional pre-eminent position in manufacturing investment- attracting around 40 per cent of new investment- to fourth position behind Western Australia, Victoria, and Queensland, attracting a mere 10.7 per cent of new investment? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of Tuesday, 12 September, headed '217,000 illiterate people in Sydney'? Can the Minister inform the Senate what steps are being taken to deal with the problem of functional illiteracy in Sydney and other parts of Australia, as described by  Dr Judith  Coyen  in her booklet entitled 'Libraries for Literacy'?  Dr Coven  dennes functionally illiterate people as those who are unable to use the telephone book, to refer to job columns in the daily newspapers or to fill in an application form. Further, do the findings of  Dr Coyen  confirm the fact that there are deficiencies in our past or present educational methods that have led to this apparent failure to teach basic reading skills? 
I present the following petition from 2,630 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That for years senior citizens of German origin suffered considerably due to lack of concluding reciprocal agreement of social services with Germany. 
Our earliest endeavours date back to 1971 when the Australian Government promised to negotiate with Germany, but to date there is no positive answer. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should request the Government to make a firm statement as to its willingness to conclude a reciprocal agreement of Social Services with the Federal Republic of Germany. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is with great pleasure that I second this motion and support everything that  Senator Missen  has said in relation to it. Before speaking to the motion I must disagree with what  Senator McLaren  said regarding other countries not allowing imports of foreign wines. Wherever a person goes on the Continent, in the United States of America or in Canada he will find that he is able to buy wines from different countries. In Europe and France he can buy all kinds of wines except Australian wines. It is the same in Italy and Austria and even more so in Canada. So it is not a fact, as  Senator McLaren  said, that other countries prohibit the importation of our wines. I must disagree on that point. 
I am afraid that I must disagree with what the Wine Board said. A year and a half ago I made a point of going overseas. I discussed the problem of the wine industry and wine imports and exports in Canada, the United States, France, Italy and Austria. I was very surprised and hurt that I was not able to buy Australian wines anywhere. In Canada, for instance, I went to a restaurant and I said: 'I would like to have Australian wine'. The head waiter said: 'I am sorry, sir. We have no Australian wines, but we can offer you French, Italian or South African wines'. I said: 'May I see the wine list?' He brought the wine list and under the section listing clarets the first wine was the brand name of an Australian wine. I said to the waiter: 'Look, this is Australian wine and you said you have not got it'. He said: 'I am sorry, sir. I did not know it was Australian wine'. 
That is the problem. We are trying to market our wines by a brand name. We are trying to sell our products in general under a brand name. We are not selling our wines as Australian wines, or for that matter we are not selling any product as an Australian product. That is where the fault lies. It is not the fault of the countries which import our products; it is our own fault. I am not saying that the Government is at fault completely, although it is partially at fault; but mainly at fault are our exporters, because each one of them wants to sell his own particular brand of wine, brandy, spirits or whatever it is. If a person goes around the world and says that he wants Italian wine he gets it, or if he wants French wine he gets it. When he is told that the wine of these countries is available he can then choose a brand from the different brands on the market. 
I think  Senator Missen  mentioned that the export of wines is risky. I agree with that. Any export activity is risky, but when the Australian Wine Board spent $100,000 on a promotion in 1973 and then forgot about the follow-up it is no wonder that the exercise has not had any success. It is useless to spend a certain amount of money in a year and then forget to follow it up in the second, third and fourth years. It is not easy to establish a market for something like wine when it has been known for centuries that Italy and 
France and for that matter Germany are the best winemakers. It is important that Australia establish a market and establish a name for our wines. Whenever I have been able to get an Australian wine on the Continent, in the United States of America or Canada and I have had my friends present to drink it they have all admitted that it is of a superior quality to all others. Anyone who knows anything about wines will confirm that. 
It is our own fault that we are not promoting our wines sufficiently. Our labels, instead of properly identifying the wines as Australian wines, have names such as moselle and burgundy on them. We cannot expect a German consumer to buy a moselle which comes from Australia, because he thinks that the moselle from Germany is the best and is the only wine which can be a real moselle. Unless and until our labelling conforms to the standards of international winemaking countries and until we establish our identity as winemakers and label our wines not as moselles, burgundies and so on but with Australian names such as Hunter red, Barossa white or Barossa red we will have no chance to penetrate foreign markets. 
Europe would be a tremendous market for our fortified wines. Again our effort to sell them is absolutely nil. I have had discussions with importers of wines in Italy, and they would be quite prepared to buy our fortified wines, but nobody has offered them Australian wine. The quality of our wines can compete with any European wine. For that reason I feel it is very important that our wine industry reorganise itself along the lines suggested in the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce, of which I was a member and which gives suggestions on how wine marketing should be reorganised. 
I know that we are not dealing with brandy in this instance, but I would like to say that brandy consumption has fallen very considerably in Australia not because of the import of foreign brandies or cognacs but because people are not consuming brandy in the quantities they did 10 to 20 years ago. An interesting fact about the complaint that brandy is not being consumed as much as it was before is that I have heard it in France itself, the country of cognac. When I asked a gentleman from the Department of Agriculture in Paris why the consumption of cognac had fallen in France, he said: 'Have you noticed a tremendous advertising campaign for whisky?' I said that I had. He said: 'That is the reason. It is not that the brandy is too dear or is no good, lt is just the better marketing by the whisky people as against the brandy people'. In 
Italy I asked the same question and the same answer was given. So the falling consumption of brandy is not unique to Australia but is world wide. Again I blame our own industry. If it were as effective as the whisky promoters are in selling their product then consumption would not fall. 
Before I finish I would like to make another point which I think plays a tremendous part in the decline in our exports of wine to foreign countries. Again I feel that it is our own fault. It is useless for our exporters to appoint a big importing house in a big city as their agents when the same house imports French, Italian or South African wines. If we do, we cannot expect that the representatives who are going around the traps selling wines to be able to sell an unknown Austraiian brand in competition with a known French or Italian brand. I blame our own industry for what is happening, because it does not realise that it has to appoint agents who can give their whole attention to the selling of their own brand of wine instead of selling it in competition with well-known and established lines. 
In reply to what  Senator McLaren  said about the importation of foreign wines into Australia, I point out that the wines which we are importing are not only of a different quality but also of a different type to that which we produce ourselves. The majority of foreign wines which are imported are light quality wines, not heavy red wines of the excellent quality that we produce. Many people buy the lighter wines which are not produced in this country and this again is the fault of our industry. People in our industry do not realise that one cannot drink a heavy red wine on every occasion. It can be drunk quite often but not on every occasion. However, one can drink a light red wine at any time. This is why there has been a tremendous upsurge in the consumption of white wines. The last point I want to make regarding the consumption of foreign wines is that often it is drunk purely for snob value. We all are human and like to show off at some time or other. Usually when we want to show off it is at a dinner. People go into a restaurant and want to show that they know something about foreign wines so they order foreign wine. They have to pay three times as much for that wine as they would for a better quality Australian wine. This is something that we will never change. However, I am sure that if our industry were more efficient in promoting our wines in Europe, the United States of America and Canada there would be the same reaction and people in those countries would buy Australian wines not only because of their quality but also for the snob value. I strongly support the motion moved by  Senator Missen. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In view of the stopwork meeting scheduled today by the Australian Capital Territory Teachers Federation, will the Minister inform the Senate of the latest situation with respect to Australian Capital Territory school staffing levels and per capita expenditure in schools and secondary colleges? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Is it a fact that  Mr Ken  Fry, the honourable member for Fraser, was reported in the Australian Broadcasting Commission news this morning as saying that the Minister has provided incorrect information about pupil-teacher ratios at government secondary colleges in the Australian Capital Territory? Did  Mr Fry  claim that the ratio is 20 : 1 rather than approximately 10 : 1, as the Minister stated in an answer to my question yesterday? Can the Minister inform the Senate of the correct figures, and in doing so correct  Mr Fry's  errors? 
I present the following petition from 136 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
Australian Citizens of Polish origin, wish to bring to the Honourable Senators attention, the promise made by the Prime Minister, the Right Honourable J. M. Frazer,, in his election policy speech on November 21st 1977, when he said: 
The age service pension will be paid to non-British former members of the allied forces. ' 
Although we have faithfully served our former country and the allied cause throughout the second World War and having since resided in Australia for thirty years, we find ourselves being denied the simple justice accorded to other exservicemen, by their respective countries. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should ensuure that the promise made by the Prime Minister be fulfilled, that we may once again believe, that a man's word is his bond. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs noted alleged remarks reported in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  by  Mr Vladimir  Koval, vice-president of the Olympic Games organising committee in Moscow who is at present visiting Australia? He is reported as saying, firstly, that many Australians may be allowed to remain in Moscow for only a week of a two week stay and, secondly, that a delegation led by  Mr Koval  gave a warning that the Soviet Government would not tolerate any nation using the Games to gain political advantage. Could the Minister inform the Senate whether the action as foreshadowed by  Mr Koval  threatens discrimination against Australian visitors to the Games and the direct political intimidation of the visitors to the Olympic Games? Are there any previous examples of similar action taken by any host country staging the Olympic Games? Does the Commonwealth Government intend to make any representation to the Soviet Government to ensure that such threats against Australian visitors are not carried out? 
Some time ago a prestigious Melbourne newspaper published a small item headed 'No Slovenia'. Who wrote that item I do not know. The fact is that according to the  Age  there is no such thing as Slovenia. To put the record right and to demonstrate how much we can rely on the media for the correct information, it is my intention tonight to speak about this non-existent Slovenia'. 
As a proud Australian- Australian by choiceborn and educated in Slovenia, son of a small nation, a nation with centuries of history, it is my right as an Australian senator and my duty as an Australian citizen of Slovene birth to speak about Slovenes and Slovenia. I would like to point out at this stage that the majority of the facts that I will present here are from publications readily available in any library to anyone, including the scribe from the  Age,  if he or she should want to look for them. 
Slovenia is in the approximate shape of a triangle, with the two longer sides being about 125 miles or 200 kilometres long and bordering on Austria on the north and Croatia on the southsouth east. The short side, which is 75 miles or 120 kilometres long, borders on Italy on the west-south west. The heart of Slovenia is in the Ljubljana Basin which is surrounded by mountains: The Julian Alps to the north-west bordering on Italy, which are also the watershed for the Sava, the principal river of Slovenia, which is part of the Black Sea system; the Karavanke Alps to the north, bordering on Austria; and the Slovene Kras to the south-west, also bordering on Italy. The area of Slovenian Kras is the site of many subterranean rivers where the unique prehistoric  proteus  anguineus still survives. The  proteus  anguineus is a tailed amphibian, an eellike blind creature which lives in almost complete darkness. 
Slovenia occupies a key position on the continent and is one of the principal gateways to western and central Europe via Trieste or Klagenfurt and Vienna. It also commands the main communication between the Mediterranean and the Danube Basin via the Postojna Gate. 
The area of Slovenia is 20,000 square kilometres. It has a population of approximately 1 ,750,000. If we compare that with the areas of New South Wales and Victoria- 801,000 square kilometres and 227,000 square kilometres respectively- we see that New South Wales is 40 times the size of Slovenia while Victoria is 1 1 times the size of Slovenia. Whereas in our two comparative States, New South Wales and Victoria, the average densities are respectively 5.8 and 15.6 inhabitants per square kilometre, Slovenia has a density of 85 inhabitants per square kilometre. So Slovenia, at one-fortieth the size of New South Wales, has approximately 14.6 times the density rate of New South Wales. This density rate of Slovenia is aggravated by the fact that it is mainly mountainous country and there is a restricted area of land suitable for cultivation, despite the utilisation of mountain pastures for summer grazing. 
The present day Slovenes are the descendants of the great Slavic migration to Western Europe which took place during the sixth and seventh centuries. These Slavs mostly settled in Pannonia which was one of the two Roman provinces founded in the first century B.C. During the migration they settled under the dominion of the Avars, a Turkic people whose rule was rejected after the Slavs had joined with them in a vain attempt to take Constantinople. The precise region that the Slovenes are thought to have settled was the area between the northern shore of the Adriatic and the Alpine valleys of the Upper Sava. At that time their area of settlement probably reached appreciably further north than it does today, since the northern fringes of the original settlement have been gradually Germanised over the centuries. It is also probable that the south-western side of this original settlement penetrated the Friulian lowlands of northern Italy to a lesser degree than today. However, what is certain is that the line between the Slovenes and the Italians has hardly altered for several centuries. 
The Slav empire of Samo 623-658, extended from the Sava between Zagreb and Ljubljana to the Upper Elbe and embraced Saxony, 
Czechoslovakia and modern Austria. The Slavs of Moravia, Pannonia and Carantania acknowledged his leadership. After his death in 658 those of Carantania retained the semblance of a state under the leadership of their dukes. In 745 the Slavic Confederation of Carantania- that is, the first Slovenian state- acknowledged Bavarian rule in order to be protected against the Avars. Thus Carantania became part of the Archdiocese of Salzburg and became Christianised, which strengthened the links between the Slavs and their northern Germanic neighbours. During this indirect Frankish control, the Slavic peasants revolted against the dukes, who had accepted the new religion. This revolt led to the further strengthening of Slav-Germanic ties because it gave the Bavarians the opportunity to intervene militarily. 
At the end of the eighth century, Charlemagne conquered Bavaria and Carantania and consequently destroyed the Avar state as it previously had been known. Then, in the early ninth century, Carantania was incorporated into the eastern march of the Carolingian empire. This situation remained largely unchanged until the tenth century when the Holy Roman Emperor, Otto I, reorganised the duchy of Carantania as a separate entity. After Otto's demise, Carantania was divided into the feudal principalities of Carinthia, Drava March, Carniola Styria, Istria and Friuli. For a few years in the late thirteenth century, the Slavs were wrested from Germaniccontrol by becoming part of the empire of Ottakar, who attempted to form a Slav state similar in extent to that of Samo however, with the centre of gravity further to the east. Ottakar 's ambitions were thwarted by the counter attack of the Holy Roman Empire at the battle of Marchfeld in 1278. 
Between 1278 and 1397 all the Slovene lands passed under the dominion of the House of Hapsburg. The Slovenes now formed all or part of the population of Istria. Gorica, Gradisca Carniola, Styria and Carinthia, with smaller numbers in Trieste and south-western Hungary. Meanwhile, those Slavs who had settled outside the city walls of Istria in the seventh century and had thenceforth governed themselves on the basis of Slavic customary law, came under the jurisdiction of the Venetian Republic during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, accepting Venetian culture and sometimes adopting Venetian-Italian dialect. We see here the predicament of those Slavs, who were subject not only to German but also to Italian influences. After the eighth century this area ceased to develop culturally along independent lines and their vocabulary absorbed features from both Italian and German. This Slovene-German and Slovene-Italian national conflict was acute, especially in view of the possibility of a mixed population. 
In 1809 Austria gave France, among others, the Slovenian territories. Napoleon organised these territories as the Illyrian provinces with Ljubljana as the capital. This city had formerly been known as the German Laibach and was founded in 1144. Previous to that it was a Roman fort known as Emona and it was established in 34 B.C. It had been the seat of Ljubljana's bishop since 1461 and its high school was established in 1582. Ljubljana's theatre was one of the first to be founded in Slovenia and was built in 1 765, with an audience capacity of 900. 
During the time of the French occupation the Slovene language was allowed to be used on the level of local public administration. However, this concession was not enough to stave off the Slovenian national revival. The French occupation was not the first provocation for such a move, since some 50 years prior to the organisation of the Illyrian provinces a Slovenian priest Marko Pohlin had sought to establish Slovenian on equal footing with German. Towards the end of the eighteenth century, Baron Zois - 1747- 1819- became the leader of an intellectual circle which included the historian Linhart, the poet Valentin Vodnik, who also produced the first Slovene newspaper, and the philologist Bartholomaus Kopitar who wrote the first scientific Slovene grammar in 1808. This group sought to achieve Slovenian cultural unity in the face of the various occupations, both physical and cultural, that the Slovenian state had suffered. The poet Franc Preseren further stirred the national consciousness of the Slovenian intellectuals and helped to achieve the re-Slavication of the Germanised Slovenian middle class. 
In general, the growing nationalism after 1848 increased Slovene literary activity but could not again raise it to Preseren's 's heights. However, despite these shortcomings, progress in Slovene literature was made and the foundation of the journal  Ljubljanski Zvon  in 188 1 marked a turning point from romanticism towards realism. 
At the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Austria acquired the Slovenian territories of Venice, thus all Slovenians were under the rule of the Hapsburgs. In 1821, a congress of European powers was held in Ljubljana. The chief powers of the congress were Russia, Austria, Prussia, France and Great Britain. The meeting was convened to complete discussions begun at a congress at 
Troppau. The outcome of the Ljubljana congress was the widening of the ridge between Great Britain and the three conservative powers of the Holy Alliance, that is, Austria, Prussia and Russia. In 1 866 Venetian Slovenia was given to Italy and the following year the Slovenian territory north of the Mura River was given over to Hungary; thus the Slovenes inhabited area stretched over three countries. Under Austrian rule the Slovenes, despite periods of Germanisation had gradually established cultural and political rights for themselves within the province of Carniola which was overwhelmingly Slovene in its national composition. Baron Valvazor, a member of the Royal Society of England from 1687, wrote the  Glory of the Duchy of Carniola,  which was first published in 1689 and was dedicated to the Duke of Carniola. In this work he wrote: 
During my travels I was greatly surprised and astonished about the fact that such a small number of people have exact knowledge of Carniola although this was a noble country which was viewed with keen interest by the powerful Romans as well as by the old Germans, viewed from both as nothing else but the key which could lock the way to either Italy or Germany. 
During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the Slovenes had already made progress in local government and in education, that is, there was adequate Slovene language training at elementary schools, although higher education was still dominated by German. The end of the nineteenth century saw Slovene representatives gain a majority on the Ljubljana municipal council and a year later they captured the provisional parliament of Carniola. In 1 848 there were 14 Slovene members of the Austrian Parliament in Vienna. By this time the majority of priests, schoolmasters and local officials were Slovene speaking and they were beginning to infiltrate the previously German dominated commercial and professional lives of the towns. 
The end of the First World War brought freedom and independence to Slovenia. As a matter of fact, 29 October was the day when Slovenian leaders proclaimed the independence of Slovenia. On 31 October the first Slovene national government was formed in Ljubljana. This coming Sunday is the sixtieth anniversary of that memorable day in Slovene history. On I December 1918 the new kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was proclaimed. Thus it was the first time in the history of Slovenian people that Slovenia was recognised as a nation. It was for a short 1 1 years that the kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, and with it Slovenia, appeared on the international scene. In 1 929 the kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was renamed Yugoslavia. 
Despite periods of strong Germanisation, including actual German colonisation of many areas, the Slovene language has managed to remain the vernacular of the mass of the population. A book from which I shall quote was recently published by a German journalist. He wrote: 
If we correctly see 'the language as the only element which bound the Slovene nation together over generations ' then we can understand that the defence of his language is inherent to the Slovene. It has been said that 'when there is a doubt as to the survival of their language, then the otherwise sensible Slovenes become irrational '. 
The six centuries of incorporation into a German speaking Roman Catholic cultural entity moulded the character of the Slovenes. The journalist also wrote: 
Most Germanic among the Slavs, with their high culture, with their strong sense of order and a diligence which even surpasses that of the Germans themselves, Slovenes are by far the most realistic of the Slavs. 
Slovenes pay great attention to the education of their children and themselves. This fact is reflected by statistics which show that only one per cent of the population is illiterate- a figure which is far below that in studies pertaining to Italy and France. Furthermore, the Slovenes have the highest sales of books per head in the world and their literature has been produced since 1551 when Primoz Trubar a Protestant reformer, published the first book written in Slovene. This publication was followed some 30 years later by a translation of the Bible by Jurij Dalmatin. The cultural need of the Slovenes was realised in the 1 8th century by the Austrians who introduced an education reform in 1760 which led to the proliferation of Slovene textbooks and consequently the Slovene renaissance which spurred Slovene nationalism during the French occupation. On the whole then we can see the history of Slovenia astutely described by a publication not published in Slovenia, as:   . . one of long fierce resistance to Germanisation. Despite the fact that its ruling class was Germanised. Slovenians knew how to preserve its cultural individuality and its Slav language. 
I hope that my speech tonight will demonstrate to anyone, even to the journalist who wrote that story in the  Age,  the facts about Slovenes, the history of Slovenia, prove and confirm once and for all that Slovenia and Slovenes existed for centuries, have survived all kinds of adversities, are existing today and I sincerely hope will continue to exist as a nation for centuries to come. My great-grandfather lived under Napoleon's rule as a French citizen. My grandfather and father were citizens of the Austro-Hungarian empire. I was born in the kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. My son was born under Italian rule. However, we all have one thing in common, one thing which we treasure- our Slovenian language. 
In conclusion, we Australian citizens of Slovenian birth would like recognition of the fact that Slovenia exists, that we are ethnically nothing else but Slovenes, and that we do not want to be immersed, ignored or forgotten just because a journalist dismissed the Slovenian nation with a two-word headline. 
-Will the Minister for Education indicate whether a stalemate has been reached in the current dispute involving teachers in Australian Capital Territory government schools? Further, what prospects are there for settlement and what action is being taken to bring to an end the rolling strikes which are disrupting children's education at a critical time of the year? 
I present the following petition from 1 178 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: - 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to:- 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
2 ) reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
Can the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of the conditions under which family allowance and unemployment benefit will be paid in respect of student children and school leavers during the Christmas vacation? Further, can the Minister indicate whether staffing in the Department is adequate to handle the expected influx of school leavers? 
Is the Attorney-General aware of reports in some newspapers that the Government intends to introduce legislation to overcome rulings made by the High Court of Australia in the Sankey case last week in relation to Executive privilege? Can the AttorneyGeneral say what legislation the Government is contemplating? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to the recently released New Zealand Defence White Paper and in particular to the reference to the importance and growing effectiveness of Australian-New Zealand defence co-operation? What is Australia 's attitude to this matter? 
-As a member of the Committee, I present the 170th, 171st, 172nd and 173rd reports from the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
-by leave-The 170th report comprises Department of Finance minutes relating to three Committee reports tabled in 1975 and 1977. The practice of presenting Finance minutes was introduced as the result of an administrative arrangement made in 1953 by the then  Chairman,  Professor F. A. Bland, and the Treasurer,  Sir Arthur  Fadden. The Finance minute procedure ensures that action on the Committee's recommendations and conclusions are followed up by relevant departments and reported on to Parliament. These minutes refer to the Committee's earlier reports about delays in occupancy of leased premises- the Committee's 153rd report- expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1975-76- our 163rd report- and the Committee's report on the Auditor-General's report for 1974-75- the Committee's 165th report. 
The Committee has been concerned for some time over the delays in finalising Department of Finance minutes. We are pleased to note that the response to its reports has, in most cases, been reduced to about 12 months, which is a considerable improvement. The Committee expects to be informed of completed action taken on its recommendations. We would hope, following the recent statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on the handling of parliamentary committee reports, that the period can be reduced further. 
The 1 7 1 st report relates to the Committee 's inquiry into matters raised by the Auditor-General in his report for the financial year 1976-77. We were disturbed at the number of statutory authorities, government-owned companies and other bodies which had not submitted financial statements to the Auditor-General for examination and the tendency for many not even to report annually to this Parliament. As a consequence, Parliament has been denied details about their operations, despite the fact that there is a statutory requirement for audited financial statements to be included with annual reports. For example, the Darwin Community College had not formally submitted financial statements to the Auditor-General since the creation of the College in July 1973. 
The Committee also heard evidence relating to a claim by the Department of Construction that the Department 'had been criticised by the Auditor-General in a public document based on conclusions and assumptions made without the benefit of professional technical advice'. The Department had sought the Attorney-General's advice on 'the extent to which the Audit Act authorises the Auditor-General to report on matters which are not related to financial procedures or the actual expenditure of funds '. From the evidence presented to the Committee it was clear the Auditor-General was not exceeding his authority in reporting as he did. A legal opinion obtained from the Attorney-General's Department affirmed the Auditor-General's right to report as he did. His conclusions were reasonable in view of the delays he experienced in obtaining relevant information from the Department of Construction. 
In Darwin, the Committee heard evidence from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of Education on their failure to carry out a Cabinet decision relating to the rental of Commonwealth-owned houses in the Territory. The Committee is concerned about the inadequacy of processes by which departments are consulted in the preparation of Cabinet submissions and the manner in which Cabinet decisions are later notified, if at all, to departments. The Committee doubts the adequacy of current procedures for ensuring the implementation of Cabinet decisions. The Committee believes that a simple central system to monitor progress in the implementation of decisions should be established. We do not question the arrangement whereby each Minister is responsible for implementing Cabinet decisions which have an impact in the area of his portfolio. However, there do not appear to be any administrative procedures controlled by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet ensuring that all departments are informed of relevant decisions and giving them an opportunity to comment on relevant Cabinet submissions in advance. As part of its inquiry into the Auditor-General's reports, the 
Committee also heard evidence from officers of the Department of Defence, the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal, the Australian wheat Board and the Superannuation Board. 
The 173rd report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance in 1 977-78. As honourable senators are aware, after the close of each financial year the Minister for Finance submits to Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36a of the Audit Act. The Committee received explanations from departments on each item shown in the Minister's statement. In all, we examined 98 departmental explanations and sought additional information by public examination on four of them. We found that, generally, expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the Appropriation Acts. I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to the introductory chapter of this report which, for the first time and with the help of one of our 'observer' organisations, gives a more detailed explanation of the history and operation ofthe Advance to the Minister for Finance. 
On behalf of the Committee I am pleased to present the Committee's 172nd report entitled Financing and Administration of Property Owned or Leased Overseas by the Commonwealth Government'. We began this investigation a little over two years ago confident that we would be able to finish it in a short time. However, due to many circumstances, not the least of which was a fundamental change in administative arrangements in the midst of our inquiry made without our knowledge, the inquiry had to be extended. Since 1971 the administrative control over overseas property has been in no less than 5 departments. This further change transferred and emasculated the former Overseas Property Bureau into a branch of yet another co-ordinating body- the Department of Administrative Services. These obliged the Committee to delay the completion of the taking of evidence so that we might assess the adequacy of the new arrangements. 
In retrospect, we have serious doubts about the justification for the change and the effectiveness of the administration of overseas property since the Bureau was abolished. The evidence before us, despite assurances given by the permanent head of the Department of Administrative Services, has led the Committee to conclude that the new arrangements have not improved the efficiency of overseas property management. We were informed of serious delays, caused by the need to refer minor matters to numerous co-ordinating bodies in Canberra, including the Public Service Board, the Department of Finance, the Department of Administrative Services and on occasions various interdepartmental committees, as well as major parent departments- the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Trade and Resources and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
The Committee has made recommendations to reduce excessive administrative control and unnecessary expense. We believe that the Overseas Property Branch, as it is now called, within the Department of Administrative Services should be re-constituted as an independent bureau reporting to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, we recommend that authority of heads of mission in property matters be increased. The Committee does not accept the situation where the Government gives heads of mission responsibility to negotiate matters of state on behalf of the Australian Government and yet does not authorise them to make relatively minor administrative decisions with judgment, honesty and integrity. The Committee also recommends that the Public Service Board should delegate matters relating to standards and rent ceilings to the authority responsible for overseas property. 
We have made 26 recommendations and numerous other observations and comments throughout the report. One of the most significant is the provision of funds adequate to carry out necessary maintenance. The Committee also received evidence concerning extremely high rents paid for property in certain countries which enabled landlords to amortise capital over periods as short as five years. The Committee believes that the Commonwealth should aim to own at least 75 percent of its property requirements overseas to avoid paying these high rents and that adequate funds should be made available on a three or five year program for this purpose. 
The present system of providing staff with accommodation in North America and Britain concerned the Committee. In these areas staff are provided with allowances and are expected to arrange private leased accommodation, as well as leased furniture. The Committee believes that it is neither cost effective nor efficient when an officer posted from Australia has to spend weeks, and sometimes months, seeking suitable accommodation. We have recommended that the system in North America and Britain should be replaced by leased residential accommodation taken in the Government's name so that the Government may benefit from long term leasing as well as enabling posted officers to become productive in as short a time as possible. 
I would like to comment briefly upon the use of Australian made products at Australian overseas posts. In general, the Committee supports the principle that Australian furniture and fabrics should be preferred where they are cost competitive. A strong case can be made for use of Australian furniture, fabrics and other products in reception and entertaining areas in chanceries and heads of mission residences. To demonstrate the variety and quality of Australian manufactured products we have recommended that tendering specifications should be designed to give reasonable access to Australian manufacturers. We have noted a recent report concerning the furnishing of the new chancery and ambassador's residence in Bangkok. The Committee has been pleased to hear that our recommendation has been anticipated and that nearly all of the furniture will be supplied by Australian manufacturers. 
Another very topical question is the use of vehicles manufactured in Australia. The Committee received evidence that at times motor vehicles, including Australian built cars, were purchased which were unsuitable to the conditions prevailing at the post. The Committee favours the use of Australian designed and manufactured vehicles, but clearly these must be cost competitive and must be backed up by suitable spares and maintenance arrangements. I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. I refer to page 17 of the Minister's report entitled 'Progress in Education Since 1976' which was tabled in this place on Tuesday. Can the Minister provide to the Senate additional information on the steps that this Government is taking to promote greater freedom of choice within government schools? In particular, can he inform this Senate to what purpose the $200,000 for pilot projects in the States, as mentioned in page 17 of the Minister's report, will be applied? 
I commend the report to honourable senators. 
My question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs follows a question asked last week by  Senator Missen  concerning the Declaration on the Mass Media by the UNESCO General Conference. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the latest situation concerning the Declaration on the Mass Media, in view of the widespread concern at earlier reports of a draft declaration which appeared to sanction government intervention in the mass media? Can the Minister advise what role the Australian delegation played in the development of the Declaration in its final form? 
-I present the 174th report of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-The 174th report of the Committee relates to the acquisition of automatic data processing systems in the Australian Public Service. This report is mainly about the acquisition of medium-scale and largescale computer systems. It also deals with the procurement of equipment to expand existing systems and with maintenance services. It does not look in detail at procurement of software or services other than maintenance. This report is one of a series in a comprehensive study by the Public Accounts Committee on major aspects of computer acquisition and usage to be presented to Parliament. Others in the series will deal with: The Public Service Board's mandata system; the planning and co-ordination of automatic data processing developments; the efficiency and effectiveness of installed computing; and the collection and dissemination of statistical material by the Commonwealth. 
During the period 1962-63 to 1977-78, the Australian Public Service has spent approximately $150m on the purchase and hire of computing equipment. In the last five years, there has been an average annual growth rate in equipment spending of 15 per cent. Some procedures and practices currently in use for ADP acquisition are unduly costly with little compensating benefit. Moreover, they tend to be inflexible, inhibiting the optimum match of vendors' solutions to the user's requirements. The major unsatisfactory aspect of present procurement practice is the length of dme it usually takes. The Department of Administrative Services has estimated that, under new administrative arrangements for the acquisition of computers, the time required to acquire a computer from the beginning of the feasibility study to the beginning of implementation would be in excess of 48 months. From evidence received, this is three times greater than the usual time taken in the private sector. 
We suggest that the Public Service Board should set itself the modest objective of reducing the average time for the acquisition of computer systems in the Public Service by 25 per cent. This will still mean the average will be approximately twice that in the private sector and will produce some $6m per annum in additional benefits and reduced costs. The Committee has reviewed the interim guidelines produced by the Public Service Board and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Administrative Services, and has concluded that, if implemented, they will not result in efficient and effective computer system procurement. The guidelines are largely orientated towards review, approval and checking. They do not deal with the inefficiencies that exist in the present process; indeed, if implemented, they will exacerbate many of the present inefficiencies. 
The interim guidelines, which do provide adequate opportunity for ministerial scrutiny during the procurement cycle for a large amount of inter-departmental committee surveillance and for an independent assessor, do not contribute to the achievement of, or recognise the need for, moving the task of computer system procurement more firmly into the hands of departmental management. The great emphasis that they place on review and checking by the IDC on ADP suggests that they may even have the opposite effect- that of further reducing the generally already inadequate level of involvement and control exercised by permanent heads in computer system acquisition. Currently, a significant component of the time cycle for procurement of large computer systems is the time taken in obtaining the endorsement for approval of departmental proposals by the IDC on ADP. It has been estimated that the IDC could be costing $4.5m in deferred benefits. The Committee considers it unlikely that the IDC review produces annual benefits of equal magnitude. 
It is the Committee's view that review and coordinating bodies such as the IDC on ADP should be publicly accountable for the costs saved and benefits lost because of their function. New administrative arrangements for computer procurement should be based on a cost-benefit analysis which takes into account the effect of delay on both direct costs and lost benefits. The Committee has suggested new interim guidelines to ensure that there is adequate opportunity for Ministerial scrutiny without the delays in the existing guidelines. 
In brief, the responsibility for the review of departments ' computer proposals would be vested with the Public Service Board. The Board would be charged with responsibility for the speedy processing of proposals. The Board's officers would be responsible for drawing Cabinet's attention to proposals which would involve possible difficulties such as conflict of interest. The Committee is anxious to ensure that fairness, honesty, free competition and more open negotiation prevail in any procedures developed. In all, the Committee made 40 recommendations which it feels will improve the acquisition of ADP systems in the Public Service. This has been the first major review undertaken relating to the acquisition of ADP systems in the Australian Public Service. The Committee wishes to express its appreciation of the co-operation and assistance accorded to it by officers of the Public Service and suppliers of computer equipment and services. The information and material provided have greatly assisted the Committee in its prompt presentation of this report. 
The Committee would also like to acknowledge the outstanding contribution of its technical adviser,  Mr Peter  MacGregor of P. K. MacGregor and Associates, in the preparation of this report. Parliament rising a week early has seriously impacted our production of this report. However, in spite of many setbacks, we have been able to bring it into the Parliament on time. 

 Mr President, I seek leave to incorporate the Committee's recommendations and the remainder of my remarks on the Committee's activities this year, in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

1.4. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS 
The following recommendations derive from the foregoing sections 1.1 to 1.3: 
Parliament should be advised of the details whenever a Minister endorses a proposal for a 'major' computer acquisition. 
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Public Service Board should issue guidelines for determining what constitutes a 'major' proposal and which should be made known to Parliament. 
Prior to its acquisition, quantified objectives should be set for the contribution that each proposed computer system will make to departmental goals. 
Prior to an acquisition which might have significant impact on employment within the Public Sector, estimates should be given to Parliament of the anticipated costs and benefits and all expected effects, including effects outside the Department which is acquiring the system, both tangible and intangible. 
The actual contribution of major computer systems to departmental goals should be measured against initial objectives and the variances accounted for. 
Detailed objectives and criteria for selection of supplier should be established for each procurement before beginning the procurement. 
A decision to proceed with a major computer procurement should be based on its expected ability to meet a standard minimum objective criterion of cost effectiveness calculated according to the Public Service Board's guidelines. 
A detailed description of the procurement process when it has been defined, should be published so that it may be clearly understood by the Public Service and suppliers. 
Details of contracts entered into for computer equipment, software and services should be published in the Commonwealth Gazette. Such details should include any significant deviations from Government standard terms and conditions, price, and in the case of system procurement, the configuration of equipment and software. 
The Government's intention to procure computer equipment, software or related services without open tender (e.g. by a certificate of inexpediency) should be published in the Commonwealth Gazette not less than 14 days prior to approval of the requisition by the authorising officer, to enable all suppliers who wish to compete for the business to show cause why they should be invited to tender. 
The workings of co-ordinating bodies should be fully open to Parliamentary scrutiny. 
12) Departmental proposals (as specified in ADPIC 9") should continue to be reviewed by a co-ordinating body. 
Internal departmental controls should be applied to the acquisition of ADP systems to ensure that, inter alia; a computer is ordered only if it is likely to produce greater benefits than other processing alternatives the most suitable facilities and/or services are selected; a pre-installation plan is prepared against which results and progress can be measured. 
Internal audit should be applied at appropriate intervals to evaluate the soundness, adequacy and application of acquisition control processes within departments. 
Standards of dme and cost should be established for procurement against which review and co-ordinating bodies should be held accountable for costs incurred and benefits lost. 
The Auditor-General should audit major ADP acquisitions periodically and report to Parliament on his findings. 
The recommendations below follow from evidence and arguments presented in later sections of this report. 
The Public Service Board, in conjunction with the Department of Administrative Services, should: 
carry out an analysis of actual times required for all phases of Government and private sector computer procurement; 
by comparison, identify areas in which potential savings are possible; 
set time standards for each phase against which delays can be costed and brought to account in conjunction with the acquiring department; 
record the actual costs of each phase of major procurements. 
Review and co-ordinating bodies such as the IDC on ADP and the Public Service Board should be publicly accountable for the costs saved and benefits lost due to their function. The Auditor-General should review and report on the activities of these bodies relevant to computer acquisitions, including the review of costs and benefits. 
19) New administrative arrangements for computer procurement should be based on a cost/benefit analysis which takes into account the effect of delay on both incurred costs and lost benefits. 
Data systems specifications should be used in preference to equipment performance specifications in the procurement of an initial computer system or the expansion of an existing system by additional components. 
When equipment performance specifications are used for the procurement of an initial system or the expansion of an existing system by additional components such specifications should be designed to promote competition to the fullest extent practicable. 
For complex projects a two-stage proposal/tender process should be considered in which 
The first stage invites proposals (not tenders) for the solution of the problem defined in the mainly functional specification. 
The second stage calls for tenders from a limited number of the respondents to the first phase, based on a more detailed technical specification which may combine data system requirements and equipment performance requirements. 
The Public Service Board should, as soon as practicable, develop and publish an ADP information manual for departments' use in evaluating tenders and proposals for computer systems or parts of systems. The manual should include methods for 
assigning a monetary value (i.e. the value to the department) to all 'desired' capabilities or characteristics specified in the request for proposal or invitation to tender; 
assigning a 'cost' to the absence of each desired capability or characteristic from each supplier's proposal, to be used as a penalty to the supplier in costing his proposal; 
calculating the total cost - direct and consequential- of each supplier's proposal over the entire system life. 
Departments should be required to determine the detailed evaluation method and criteria, including the desired capabilities and characteristics and their values, before inviting proposals or calling tenders. 
The specification of requirements accompanying a request for a proposal or an invitation to tender should include the following information: 
The value of the user of each desired capability or characteristic; 
For each desired capability or characteristic, the method which will be used to calculate the cost penalty which the supplier will incur in the evaluation if he does not include that capability, 
The expected system life to be used for the purpose of costing. 
The Public Service Board should increase its activity in the development -of standards and guidelines for sound ADP practice and procedures. 
Standards developed for the technical features of computing equipment and software should not be such as to limit competition among equipment suppliers or prevent the Government from benefiting from future technical progress. 
Technical standards should be arrived at through a process of wide consensus and should not be developed in isolation from industry or users. 
Consequently, where it is desired to promote a technical standard, the standard should be explicit and open for discussion. The Government should not attempt to achieve uniformity through the specification of mandatory technical features except where such features have been explicitly identified as proposed or approved Government standards and after wide discussion throughout the Government and a high degree of consensus. 
A task group should study the advisability of and appropriate timing for establishing a packet-switched data network for Australian Government use conforming to international standards. We suggest that this group be required to submit its recommendations to Cabinet by the 30th June 1979. 
The development of data processing standards should be made more formal. We suggest the constitution of a Government computer standards committee consisting of for example representatives from among major user departments, the Public Service Board, Telecom, the CSIRO Division of Computing Research, and major computer industry associations. The objective of such Committee would be to achieve maximum economy through interdepartmental standardisation, subject to not restricting competition among suppliers or limiting the Commonwealth's ability to capitalise on technical innovation. We suggest that the committee would make recommendations to the Public Service Board on the adoption of appropriate ADP standards. 
In expanding or augmenting an existing computer installation with peripherals and /or processors where plugcompatible equipment is available in Australia, competitive tenders should be sought for the required peripherals and /or processors unless grounds for a certificate of inexpediency exist 
In procuring a complete system of processors) and peripherals where the architecture selected for the processor is such that plug-compatible units are available, then competitive tenders should be sought for such equipment unless grounds exist for a certificate of inexpendiency 
In either of the procurement situations described in 1 and 2 above, the need to obtain compatibility with existing peripherals or processors), or to obtain a particular computer architecture should not be grounds for a certificate of inexpediency unless it has been definitely established that plug-compatible peripherals or processors are not available. 
In deciding whether to mix vendors on one site, due regard should be paid to any additional costs which this will involve, for example in system integration and maintenance, and such costs should be offset against any cost saving. 
Specifications of maintenance requirements should be designed to ensure free and open competition, equal opportunity, and careful consideration to all maintenance suppliers who wish to participate in Government business. 
The purchasing authorities should design purchasing procedures for maintenance service which 
ensure that consideration is given to all qualified maintenance vendors who wish to participate in Government business; 
are not unnecessarily complex and costly having regard to the size of the contract to be let. 
Because of the difficulty of selecting representative tasks and because benchmark results may not be representative of later performance in a real job environment, benchmarks should normally only be used to verify suppliers' performance claims. 
The Department of Administrative Service should examine the feasibility of simplifying the procedure for minicomputer purchases of low aggregate dollar volume, including an examination of an annually renewed published contract with each supplier. 
In designing improved acquisition procedures and in preparing guidelines for the documentation of departmental proposals, the Public Service Board should ensure that the procedures for minicomputers are simple and of a cost consistent with the dollar value of the equipment. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. In view of recent Press comment on the question of freedom of choice in government schools, will the Minister inform the Senate what progress has been made in this area by the Commonwealth Government both in the Territories and in co-operation with the States? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science and the Environment. Has the Minister noted an article in today's newspapers reporting a successful bud transplant of a white variety of vines onto a red variety? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether any research into such transplants has been conducted by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. If the CSIRO has not done so, could it urgently undertake such studies in order to help to alleviate the problems of the grape growers due to there being a large surplus of the red grapes used for the production of red wines? 
In this debate we have heard some quite interesting speeches, including the one given by the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat. I was amazed to hear  Senator Gietzelt  say that all the wars happening today, wherever they are, are the fault of the Western nations. Ethiopians are killing Eritreans and Vietnamese are killing Kampucheans all because of the Western nations' foreign policies. This is what  Senator Gietzelt  said. He said that it is all the fault of Australia that the Vietnamese are the friends of the Soviet Union because we and the United States have not given support to the Vietnamese and have forced them into the arms of the Soviet Union. According to the figures supplied to me by the Research Service of the Parliamentary Library, during the so-called liberation war between North Vietnam and South Vietnam China helped the North Vietnamese by giving them $20,000m. I do not know how anyone can say that that is peanuts or that the North Vietnamese were not puppets, as  Senator Gietzelt 

 Senator Gietzelt spoke also about the progressive forces in the world who want to give people the right to determine their own destinies. I wonder whether he was referring, amongst other nations, to the Soviet Union where a few days ago elections were held with a strange result- 99.99 per cent of the people voted for the communist candidates! If that is a demonstration of the right of people to determine their own destinies, I am sure that I do not want something like that. I wonder what  Senator Gietzelt  would have said if the United States of America had given to Vietnam the support which he accused the United States of America of not giving. I am sure that he would have said that the United States was again wanting to buy another country and take it over. He is saying that because the Vietnamese turned to the Soviet Union the United States is one of the bad boys. I believe that  Senator Gietzelt  is blaming everyone for the fight which is happening today between his old friends. I will mention something about that later.  Senator Gietzelt  said that Western world friends were having wars and, therefore, why could not friends in the so-called socialist world have wars? That is what he told us tonight. 
I would like to refer also to  Senator Chipp.  He said that today there is an Islamic renaissance in that the people of the Mohammedan faith are trying to show that they believe in their faith. I wonder when that renaissance will happen in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I wonder when that renaissance will happen in Iraq or in Syria. I wonder when the 400 million Moslems in the world will have that kind of renaissance. I wonder whether the socialists and the progressives of this country admire and applaud the proposed Islamic laws requiring the cutting off of hands and heads and the kind of punishment that some dictators are proposing today. 
I do not want to mention the wives. I congratulate  Senator Wheeldon  on his address in this debate. It was an excellent address. I am always delighted to listen to his addresses on foreign affairs; but in this speech I found two inconsistencies. As recorded on page 278 of  Hansard,  after  Senator Baume  had invited  Senator Wheeldon  to make some suggestions about what had to be done in regard to the situation in South East Asia,  Senator Wheeldon  said: 
 I believe that we ought to dissociate ourselves as far as we possibly can from all the parties to the current dispute in Asia. What we are seeing there is a brawl between rival dictatorships. 
Therefore, hands off, he was saying. By the way, they are the dictatorships of the progressive parties, the socialist parties and the communist parties.  Senator Wheeldon  continued: 
If a suggestion were sought of me by  Senator Baume  concerning Africa, I would say that ... we made no effort to apply the sort of pressure that should have been applied to both countries to ensure a dramatic change in their race relations policies, policies which to varying degrees have been cruelly oppressive of the great mass of their people. 
Further on in his speech he said: 
We are not in any position to do that but presumably we at least have some influence with those powers that can do this son of thing, and however much or little influence we have the best that we can do is to exert it. 
Did he mean that when we have power we should try to tell these countries what to do? Did he mean that when these nations have governments which listen we should tell them what to do? Or did he mean that when they are Red dictatorships we should not tell them what to do but should tell them to do their own thing and let them kill as many of their own people as they want? Nobody protests about the killing of human beings, about the Vietnamese being killed by Chinese bullets, or about the Angolans or the Eritreans being killed by the Ethiopians. According to the socialists, as long as they are killed by their own people, all is well- nobody suffers. 

 - Senator Georges interjects by saying 'rubbish'. How many sit-ins, how many pitch-ins, how many moratoriums and how many demonstrations - 
Or street marches, have been held recently over what is happening in South East Asia? I have not seen one. As far as I know, human beings- children and women- are being killed, but nobody is interested in that. Nobody is saying anything about that. An article appeared in the  Australian  of 24 February. It was written by Max Harris. In it he said: 
The world 's biggest threat at the moment is the opportunist imperialism of the Russians. 
It's not the old imperialism of military invasion, occupation and annexation. There have only been two examples of this in the post-war era- the brutal Chinese seizure of the ancient nation of Tibet and the Vietnamese seizure of Kampuchea. 
The Russians build up their imperial power by what the Chinese call 'hegemony.' That is, the Russians stir up civil wars, send in Cubans or Vietnamese to do the fighting by proxy, and set satellite governments which provide the USSR with subservient regimes more useful than they'd get from a government of Russian military occupation. 
This is a fact and we have seen it all over the world. We have seen it in Africa. We are seeing it today in South East Asia. But strange things are happening now. We see that the old comrades in arms are fighting each other. I believe that an Australian communist said once: Between the Elbe River and the China Sea no man points a gun at another'. That statement was made some time ago. We should not forget a statement which was made by old father Lenin. He said: 
The war is rooted only in imperialism and will be banished by socialism. 
I wonder what the Vietnamese soldiers who are fighting the Chinese are thinking about this kind of war which should have been banned by socialism. At a meeting of the Communist Party in Moscow on 1 March 1965 the following was said: 
What unites the communists of various countries is much stronger than what at present divides them. 
All was lovely in the garden of the international socialist camp some years ago. Now all that has been shattered. We see the two great socialist countries standing one against the other, ready to fight and in some places we see them fighting. The nationalism which was supposed to have been extinguished by the ideology of socialism and by internationalism, so preventing any future wars, is back again. Now we have the USSR against China; China against Vietnam; Yugoslavian troops on the Bulgarian border; African countries with Soviet-type dictatorships fighting each other; and Ethopia fighting Somalia. The Horn of Africa has been a battlefield, but we do not know much about it because the media do not report wars that are being fought between fraternal parties. Apparently they are not worth reporting. 
As somebody said- I think he put it quite nicely- from Algeria to Tanzania, from China to Canada, the national inspiration and the need to embody the culture in a national estate and a national society are still with us. I would prefer to say that they are the strongest moving forces as the world plunges towards the twenty-first century or the new wars, as national interests have overcome ideology. This is the danger in today's world. Nationalism is again raising its head. Nationalism is the one thing which has surpassed the ideologies as the major force in the future wars. 
The Parliamentary Library has issued a paper, No. 1 1979, entitled 'The Sino-Vietnamese Conflict'. I shall quote from that paper. Under the heading 'Origins of the Conflict' it states: 
It has been often observed that relations between China and Vietnam have traditionally been characterised by enmity . . . The Vietnamese who led these successful anti-Chinese revolts are today venerated as national heroes. 
The paper further states:  . . a territorial dispute over the small Paracel and Spratley Island groups; conflict over Cambodia; the problems of ethnic Chinese in Vietnam; and improved relations between Vietnam and Russia. 
These are the causes and origins of today's war. On page 2 of the paper it states: 
Traditional Vietnamese-Cambodian enmity seems even more intense, at least on the Cambodian side, than that between China and Vietnam. Common ideology did little to heal this rift since Hanoi's national interests, from the 1950s, have generally clashed with those of the Cambodian Communist Party. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  said: 
The conflicts reflect and were created by the hostility and rivalry existing between four states: The Soviet Union, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. 
Then he added: 
No one else contributed to them. No one else wanted them. 
How true. There were no American troops there to get them fighting. There were no Australian troops there to fight them. The war was of their own making. Further on the Foreign Minister said: 
. it is a dangerous fallacy to assume that local conflicts in such critical areas can be contained and managed indefinitely. Instability is infectious. 
Again, no honourable senator on the other side of the chamber has put forward the point that instability is infectious. We are already hearing the rumours that there is some kind of a war afoot in Laos. What will happen later we do not know. But our Foreign Affairs Department and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  warned what can happen. It did happen. The fact that the media have ridiculed that matter shows clearly where the media stand and where the socalled experts on foreign policy stand. Further in his statement  Mr Peacock  said: 
. that all the conflicts and instability to which I have referred are taking place in Third World countries. 
We know that for a fact. Those Third World countries, which need peace and stability more than any other countries, are engaged in the wars. The moneys which were supposed to be spent on human beings and their welfare are being spent on war materials. This is the tragedy of the events which are occurring today. The Foreign Minister also said: 
It is well to remember therefore- it is a question of remembering, for the truth is amply illustrated in the West's own earlier experience- that exceedingly rapid economic growth can cause profound social, cultural and political dislocation. 
I am sure that very few honourable senators will remember, if they ever knew, the problems Kemal Ataturk had in Turkey, after he became the powerful leader of that government, when he introduced reforms on religious grounds. In 1924-25 attempts were made to overthrow or crush his regime or to assassinate him just because of that. The Foreign Minister said in his statement: 
We are under no illusions that we can play the pivotal role in resolving this crisis. That is no reason for not taking action and doing so as effectively and energetically as we can. 
How true. We are not a world power. We cannot dictate to other people what they should do. But whatever suggestions or counsels we make can contribute to achieving what we are all after. Regarding the Soviet Union, the Foreign Minister said: 
While the Soviet Union is increasing its already enormous military power faster than any other country and while it is increasingly active in relation to the troubled spots of the world, politically it is the odd-man-out among the great powers. 
Have we forgotten the problems of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe? Have we forgotten the problems of the communist regimes in Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia? All these governments exist by the sheer force of Soviet power. The people of those countries would have been free a long time ago if the Soviet divisions had not been stationed in their own countries or on the borders. Of our role in the 1 980s the Minister said this: 
The role a country like Australia can play has some limitations. 
I agree. It has limitations. He continued: 
But that must not be an excuse for inertia and resignation. 
I compliment our Foreign Minister, not only on his statement but also on the warning he has given the Australian people and the world about the problems which were brewing in the Far East. The Minister said in his statement: 
Throughout we have been open with the people of Australia- giving prior warning, explaining our understanding of the situation, what we are doing and why we are doing it. 
Finally, I would like to say only this: All those progressives, all those people who continuously speak about human beings and human rights, all those people who so recently marched in the streets protesting about the cruelty of war- any war- have forgotten that wars are still going on in which the same people, the same human beings, are being killed. But the fact is that the people I mentioned are silent because these people are being killed by people of their own ideology. I fully support the statement. 
I present the following petition from 78 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Acting Clerk- Petitions have been lodged for presentation as follows: 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Industrial Relations been informed by the Australian delegation to the International Labour Organisation in Geneva of a letter from the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to a special ILO committee? This committee is investigating alleged violations of ILO Convention 87, which concerns the right to form a union of one's own choosing. The letter from the USSR allegedly warns the special committee against investigating charges that the Government of the USSR has harassed self-proclaimed trade unions and imprisoned their leaders. Can the Minister inform the Senate what action, if any, has been taken about this blatant attempt by a member of the ILO to intimidate and dictate to an independent body which is interested solely in the wei.  fare of the working people? 
-I ask the Minister for Education: In view of the Government's concern at the level of youth unemployment, can he inform the Senate whether consideration has been given to encouraging more young people to stay longer in secondary education? Also, can the Minister provide the Senate with the latest statistics available on retention rates in secondary schools in the States and the Territories? 

 Opposition senators interjecting. 

I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Initiate necessary action for a referendum to be held to amend the Constitution to provide for Citizen's Initiative, on the following conditions: 
If a specified percentage of the voters (for example 2%) sign a petition asking that a referendum be held on a certain question, then the Federal Government would be obliged to hold that referendum, and the result would becomelaw. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
In entering this debate on the motion regarding dual nationality. I should like to say that I concur sincerely in many of the points made by  Senator Tate.  I have been interested in this matter not for just a few months but for many years. I believe that the problem of dual nationality is a very complex one. Incidentally, I think that the term 'dual nationality' is a misnomer and that it should be 'dual citizenship'. However, I will deal with the semantics later. 
The report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is an excellent one, and I fully support all the recommendations. I support particularly the recommendation which confirms the Australian belief, the Government belief, that every person should have one nationality only, with the exception that I would refer to citizenship and not nationality. This principle is based on the Hague Convention of 1 930, and I believe that the Hague Convention realises, as do many governments, the problems created by dual citizenship. The Committee's recommendation No. 6 is very relevant and extremely important to Australian citizens who were born in another country. That recommendation states: 
Consideration should be given to the deletion of 'Place of birth' now entered on Australian passports and the substitution of Place of residence ' in its stead. 
I believe that many other nations have replaced the reference to country of origin or country of birth with a reference to place of residence. I have been told that it is an international convention which requires the passport to show the country of birth; but, even if there is an international convention, I do not see why we could not change that, as Switzerland has done, and refer to place of residence. I firmly believe that it is important for anyone who applies for a passport to show his country of origin on his application. But the passport should show only the place of residence, as the person is an Australian citizen. I do not see why it is necessary to show the country of origin on the passport if the issuing authorities in Australia already have been given that information in the application for a passport. 
I do not intend to delay the Senate too long on this issue, but I was delighted to read in the  Hansard  record of yesterday afternoon's proceedings in the other place that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs,  Mr MacKellar,  in answer to a question regarding dual citizenship, had this to say: 
I did have discussions with Yugoslav Ministers during a visit to Yugoslavia just prior to Christmas and I did raise the question of the problems experienced by Australian citizens of Yugoslav origin. It is a fact that, despite taking out Australian citizenship, people from Yugoslavia do not automatically relinquish their Yugoslav citizenship and all that that entails, including the obligation to undertake military service. 
The next part of the answer is vital and very important. It has not yet been sufficiently publicised or emphasised by either our Government or the Yugoslav Government. The Minister said: 
It was explained to me that it is possible to renounce Yugoslav citizenship, but that decision is taken at the republican government level rather than at the central government level. 
I hope that the Minister will be able to announce more details about the matter outlined in that sentence. The Minister continued: 
As I have already mentioned, this is a problem for Australian citizens of Yugoslav origin visiting that country. I raised with Ministers in Yugoslavia the question of Australian citizens who were undergoing military service. I am very pleased to be able to say that three Australian citizens who were undergoing military service have had that obligation reviewed and at the very highest level two have had their obligations set aside. One has undertaken to continue his military service but at a much reduced time scale. 
I am very pleased that the discussions with the Yugoslav Government have resulted in this understanding of Australian citizens' points of view and I am very hopeful that the discussions which will continue with the Yugoslav Government, relating to the question of dual nationality, will have a mutually acceptable result. 
I am delighted with that statement by the Minister because I feel that it indicates that the first step has been made in negotiating a bilateral agreement with one of the countries from which a large number of Australian citizens have migrated. I hope that the Commonwealth Government will continue with such discussions with other governments in order to conclude bilateral agreements. I believe that that is the best and only way to tackle the problem as every country looks at the problem from a different point of view. I really feel that a multilateral agreement would be too complicated in the present situation, with so many people from different countries now being Australian citizens. 
I now wish to speak briefly on a matter which I believe creates tremendous confusion. I refer to nationality versus citizenship.  Senator Tate,  at the beginning of his address, read the text of what the new citizens of this country say when renouncing their allegiance. In that situation, a person becomes an Australian citizen and not an Australian national. From my point of view, and I would say from the points of view of the majority of Continental people, there is a big difference between nationality and citizenship. There can be a Scottish national of British citizenship. There can be an Irish national of British citizenship. There can be a Welsh national of British citizenship. As I understand the position, there cannot be a British national because I do not think that there is a British nationality as such. In the same way, I believe that it is absolutely strange, to say the least, to call a Ukranian a Soviet national. He is a Soviet citizen, but he is a Ukranian national or, for that matter, a Byelorussian. He is a Byelorussian national but a Soviet citizen. 
I wonder what a Latvian would say if he were told that he was a Soviet national. He is not a Soviet national; he is a Lithuanian national but a 
Soviet citizen because of the political situation in his country. I strongly believe that we should make a clear distinction when referring to nationality or citizenship. Today maybe nationality would be better equated with ethnicity. But I believe that in official papers and statements issued by the Government and by all public bodies the ethnic origin of a person should be referred to as the national origin and his citizenship should indicate that he is a citizen of a particular country, of a political state. There can be a Croatian national who is an Australian citizen. I am a Slovenian national. I consider myself a Slovenian national. My nationality is Slovenian but I am an Australian citizen. I think that that distinction should be clearly made and maintained. 
-I would say that nationality' has a different connotation and a different meaning from 'citizenship'. If we look at the  Oxford English Dictionary  we see that the definition of 'nation' is this: 
An extensive aggregate of persons, so closely associated with each other by common descent, language, or history, to to form a distinct race or people. Usually organised as a separate political state and occupying a definite territory. 
The definition uses the words 'usually organised' and talks about a 'political state', not a nationalist state. The definition in the  Oxford English Dictionary  of citizen' is this: 
A member of a state, an enfranchised inhabitant of a country, as opposed to an alien; in the United States of America a person, native or naturalised, who has the privilege of voting for public offices, and is entitled to protection in exercising of private rights. 
Therefore nationality has nothing to do with the rights of a citizen as such. I believe that we should really be consistent in that regard. I hope that the Government will take notice of the report's recommendation in that regard and that it will take notice of the difference between the interpretation of the word 'nationality' and that of the word 'citizenship'. 
-I present two petitions from 124 and 20 citizens of Australia, respectively, as follows: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Membersof the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly paymentsthat the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920.000 aged invalid widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will every pray. 
Petitions received and one petition read. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware that Qantas Airways Ltd and Air New Zealand Ltd have introduced a special low return fare of $A135 to apply during the JuneAugust period? As this period is the winter season in Australia and New Zealand, can the Minister provide the Senate with information about the likely effects of this move on the Australian winter tourist industry? 

 -Mr President, I wish to draw your attention to pages 2916-7 of the  Hansard  report of the House of Representatives of yesterday where  Senator Chipp  's contribution to this chamber is reported. Recognising that the honourable senator was once a member of the other place, I ask whether you will arrange for a correction of the misprint. 
-I wish to make a short statement. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has the Government received confirmation of Press reports about a coup having taken place in Ghana? Is it a fact that the alleged leader of the coup is a flight-lieutenant by the name of Jerry Rawlings? 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate about the current speculation that fees for tertiary education courses might be reintroduced in 1 980? 

 - Mr President, I will be brief. I intend to limit my remarks to the promotion of sales of Australian wines overseas. In the second reading speech the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  indicated that the Australian Wine Board is responsible, under the Wine Overseas Marketing Act 1929, for controlling the export of wine and undertaking promotion in Australia and overseas. In the annual report of the Australian Wine Board for 1977-78 we see, on page 10, that exports to the United Kingdom in 1976-77 were as low as 528,000 odd litres. In 1977-78 only 485,000 litres were exported to the United Kingdom. There was a drop of 8 per cent. By comparison, in 1960 almost five million litres were exported, ten times more than the latest result. The Board then gives quite extraordinary reasons for why sales of Australian wines have dropped. Some of these reasons I agree with; some of them I cannot agree with. 
Overseas, particularly in the United Kingdom, if one looks at the wine list in restaurants one sees wines from practically all countries, European Economic Community members and others, except Australia. 1 feel this is an area where the wine board has failed in promoting Australian wines overseas. If we look further into the report, we will see that the wine centre in London is mentioned. About three weeks ago I wanted to buy a couple of bottles of wine and 1 went to that centre. I am not very familiar with London but I must say that when I went to Soho where the centre is I was quite perplexed to find the kind of shops that are next to the Australian Wine Centre. A younger person or a lady would not be tempted to go to that street because there are sex shops, one next to the other. I was looking at what was going on in that street where the Australian Wine Centre is - 
Perhaps it is, but the fact is that it is hidden where no one can find it. In London, we have many premises in more important avenues where this centre could be located. It is said that the Australian Wine Board operates a gift centre which enables people under the scheme to send Australian wines to their friends in the United Kingdom. I have never seen the scheme advertised anywhere in Australia. I wonder how many people know about the scheme which enables people to send Australian wines to their friends in the United Kingdom. 
I would like to know why Australian wine centres are not established in other countries such as Italy, Greece and Yugoslavia. There are many migrants in this country who would like to send Australian wines to their friends but they cannot. I feel that the promotion of Australian wines is absolutely negligent or ridiculous; it does not exist. Net expenditure on overseas promotion- and this does not relate only to the United Kingdom-in 1976-77 was $91,087 in Australia currency. In 1977-78 it was $66,274. That is the total net expenditure by the Board on overseas promotion which receives $ 1 m from the levy. I wonder how far $66,000 goes towards covering the market overseas. 
What does the Wine Board do about the quality of Australian wines? The April issue of the very prestigous magazine called  Gourmet  contains an article about the Indian-Pacific train which runs between Sydney and Perth. The article reads: 
I am a long time admirer of Australian wines. Most of the reds are the equal to the best middle level wines- Europe or California. (French wines don't begin to tower over others until they get up into the first rank). 
The top ranking Australian wines are superb, and there are a few white wines that are their peers. 
This is the opinion of somebody who certainly knows what good wine is, but what is our Wine Board doing? I am afraid that it is not doing enough. If it did more we would not have the problem of surplus red wines which exists in Australia at present. 
Can the Minister for Education comment on recent claims by the Australian Teachers Federation and other protest groups that funding for education in Australia is inadequate and particularly that government schools are being starved at the expense of nongovernment schools? Further, can the Minister confirm that this propaganda is grossly distorted and ignores the enormous progress made in all sections of education, particularly government schools, in the period of the Fraser Government? 
-by leave- I wish to make a short statement. I have never called  Senator Grimes  or any other honourable senator in this place a communist. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to  8  p.m.  ( Quorum formed). 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment noticed a recent article in the  Australian  alleging that there is a kangaroo plague on the western plains of New South Wales? 
According to the article, the national parks people estimate that three million kangaroos and wallabies are roaming the plains. The article also reports that the feeling in the area is that protection has got out of hand. Could the Minister inform the Senate what action, if any, has been or will be taken to safeguard the livelihood of farmers in that area? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services been drawn to an item in the  Sun  of 18 September which is entitled 'MPs Travelling Allowance Rise' and which alleges that the Federal Government has approved a $40 rise in the all-inclusive overseas travelling allowances for members of parliament and their wives, bringing the top rate to $150 a day? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the information in the article is correct and whether the alleged rise applies to all members of parliament and their wives when travelling overseas? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate what is the present situation of relief shipments to the long-suffering population of Kampuchea, particularly in view of the alleged reports that the Government of Kampuchea is not allowing foreign observers into Kampuchea to supervise the relief distribution? 
I  present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Red Army Choir is a military propaganda unit glorifying the Soviet regime which is still hostile to the democratic way of life. The Red Army is the main instrument in keeping formerly free people under subjugation, and its presence enables blatant violations of Human Rights to be perpetrated. The support, therefore, of such instruments of a totalitarian regime can only harm the development of free and liberal thought under it. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Australian Government assert its support for the aspirations of subjugated people by denying entry into this country to the Red Army Choir. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-As a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts I present the1 75th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-The Committee's 175th report is the second in a significant series on the use of automatic data processing in the public sector. The first report dealt with the acquisition of large-scale systems in the Public Service, especially the high cost that can result and has frequently resulted from unduly prolonging the procurement process. This report concerns the origin, acquisition and development of one major Public Service system- the Mandata project, described by the Public Service Board in its 1 97 1 annual report as a centralised service-wide computer based personnel and establishment system with direct links to the payroll and superannuation systems, that would provide a response to inquiries as effective as existing systems while providing a superior management information system '. 
Our detailed examination of this project confirmed the views we stated in our previous report- our 174th report- on the importance of senior management's close involvement in all stages of a major project. The fact that this did not occur for Mandata is a major factor contributing to the difficulties experienced with this project. We would not wish our report to be seen merely as being critical of the Commissioners of the Public Service Board. Rather our recommendations are based on sound management principles and if the Commissioners view them in a positive and open way they will lead to a speedy and effective completion of the project. 
Despite the manifest problems, the Committee believes that Mandata should be completed as quickly as possible. The project, as initially envisaged, may bring significant benefits to departmental managers and to the Public Service Board. The recommendations in this report will be of particular relevance to all future major projects. The mistakes which plagued Mandata should not be repeated. We believe that the Mandata project was, in its initial stages, poorly planned and directed. Some aspects of its management are still unsatisfactory. We conclude that the Commissioners of the Public Service Board were not well informed on Mandata 's progress. They did not effectively review and control the project's development. There was more than 100 per cent change in the personnel involved in the leadership of the Mandata development team, and this had a major impact on the quality of evidence given to our inquiry. 
The re-organisation of the Board's structure, begun in May 1978, had a significant effect upon the character of our inquiry. The operation of the Mandata office was removed from the control of the Automatic Data Processing Division and placed in a direct management relationship, through the Secretary, to the Board itself. From that time, with renewed senior management control and newer project management, the level of co-operation and the quality of information that began to flow to the Committee improved remarkably. Despite the evident improvement, we still must be critical of some of the detailed planning and control yet to be implemented. The Committee believes that Mandata was an example of a situation which will become increasingly common in an era of high technology- for example, uncertainty about the responsibilities of non-technical policy-makers, in this case the Commissioners of the Public Service Board and the heads of user departments, in initiating and directing complex technical projects. 
The Committee concluded that the Public Service Board, which was responsible for developing and operating Mandata, had seriously underestimated the difficulty of implementing the project and had overestimated its ability in a field where it had had no prior experience. Mandata equipment, development and operation has so far cost, in 1 977 dollars, more than $ 1 9m, and by 1986-87 will have cost more than $45m. Over the same period the Public Service Board expects that the Service should have achieved savings of nearly $100m in reduced clerical costs and improved manpower resource management. 
The Committee considered that significant costs have been incurred on Mandata which would have been avoided had the system development been planned and managed in accordance with the best current practice. We believe that at least several million dollars already lost in the form of unproductive cost-benefits was due to project delays and errors of planning and development. The Committee appreciates that not all the delays were within the control of the Board. However, the Committee has identified a minimum of $ 1.2m of unnecessary costs which resulted from the premature acquisition of minicomputers and data concentrator units and unproductive site planning. 
The Committee is concerned about the accuracy of current estimates of costs and benefits and is of the opinion that the Public Service Board should review them immediately. We believe that anticipated economic benefits will be achieved only if the project were to be completed as quickly as possible and better managed than it has been in the past as there are only slight cost saving advantages demonstrated to us. The form that savings from Mandata would actually take is still obscure- whether a reduction in the size of the Public Service, or merely a redeployment of displaced staff to other positions in the Service. The Committee is aware that there are social advantages and disadvantages as well as economic. 
The Public Service Board has not fully faced the implications of changes to the work force that may result from the effects of technological change. The Public Service Board should enunciate its decisions from social as well as economic objectives. We expect that the inquiry into technological change in Australia will be addressing itself to these matters and will assist the Government in formulating guidance for the Public Service Board on acceptable objectives. We believe the Parliament should be informed of these. The Committee is concerned that Public Service departments are not yet fully capable of making effective use of the information that Mandata could provide and training in manpower management is therefore an essential prerequisite to the achievement of the expected benefits. 
This inquiry brought to our attention an important principle of the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive. The Committee had considerable difficulty due to inordinate delays in obtaining adequate documentation about Mandata from the Public Service Board. It was reluctant to provide or declined to provide, documents which were alleged to be Cabinetrelated, interdepartmental documents, reports or material used in the preparation of those documents and reports on the grounds of privilege. The Committee is of the opinion that the proposed guidelines of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  of September 1978 for official witnesses appearing before Parliamentary Committees, in relation to privilege of these documents, has to some extent clarified the situation, but in our case the guidelines were interpreted far too widely by the Board. In the event, representations by the Committee to the Prime Minister achieved the desired result. 
The Westminster concept of ministerial responsibility evolved at a time when Government operations were much more simple and it was possible for a diligent Minister to comprehend the full range of activities of his department and take full responsibility. The vast increases in complexity and sophistication and the increase in the volume of work in the last decades have put the Westminster tradition under severe stress. It remains absolutely fundamental to parliamentary government that the Executive must be accountable to Parliament which is properly informed of the activities of government. Therefore, the need for scrutiny by parliamentary bodies such as the Public Accounts Committee is even more important and reduces the justification for failure to provide relevant information under the excuse of privilege where documents relating to Cabinet submissions or other interdepartmental activities are denied. The members of the Public Accounts Committe do not accept that a general embargo should be placed on access to all material needed in the preparation of Cabinet submissions. An extension of this principle would make the work of the Public Accounts Committee- or even the Parliament -impossible. 
In November last year, 1 1 months ago, we presented the first report in our series on automatic data processing, the acquisition of systems in the Public Service. In spite of the Prime Minister's directive for a response within six months, and our own long-standing arrangements with the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and his Department, a response on this subject has not yet been received. While the delay is of concern to the Committee, even more disconcerting is a report published in  Computer World  on Friday, 5 October, that new delays are being built into the process of acquiring a computer system, making the situation worse than ever. We hope there is no substance to it. The Committee would like to think that the Public Service Board and other interested bodies will examine its recommendations in context and, before the new guidelines are promulgated, discuss them with the Committee as well as those who will be charged with the responsibility to permanent heads for the implementation of systems within their departments. 
The rate of change of computer technology is faster than the community's ability to understand. Whilst there is often criticism that Parliament is not bending its efforts to major social problems, this Committee's report represents the most serious attempt by any parliamentary institution to come to grips with the implications of computer technology. In undertaking this inquiry the Committee has imposed on itself a very great workload and due acknowledgment must be given to my colleagues on the Sub-Committee  -Mr Barry  Jones,  Senator John  Watson and  Mr 
David Connolly. Our inquiry is now over two years old and we must also pay tribute to the secretariat of the Committee and its technical adviser,  Mr Peter  MacGregor of P. K. MacGregor and Associates. I reiterate that we firmly believe that this report is a positive contribution to administrative efficiency and effectiveness. I commend the report to honourable senators. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment. 
Has the Minister noted an item in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  entitled: 'Wine Makers Fear Smelter Pollution'? The article quotes  Mr B.  Dawson, a member of the Hunter River Valley Vignerons Association, as saying that an aluminium smelter at Farley would threaten about 3,000 hectares of grape vines in the Pokolbin district. Can the Minister inform the Senate about the alleged claim that scientific evidence from overseas showed that agricultural crops were likely to be damaged by fluoride pollution from aluminium smelters? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that the most recent Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development survey of taxation levels shows that Australia is one of the lowest taxed countries in the OECD? Can the Minister inform the Senate how Australia compares with other Western industrial nations in terms of levels of taxation? 
-I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Health to an item in the daily Press which quotes the Minister for Health as stating that in 1970-71 the total expenditure on health was less than $2 billion, whilst it is now between $7.5 billion and $8 billion. The Minister stated further that, even accounting for inflation, health expenditure as a percentage of gross domestic product had grown from 5 per cent to nearly 8 per cent in the past eight years. Can the Minister inform the Senate how the present per capita expenditure on health in Australia compares with such expenditure in other countries? 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a grave threat to the life of refugees from the various States of Indo-China arises from the policies of the Government of Vietnam. 
That, as a result of these policies, many thousands of refugees are fleeing their homes and risking starvation and drowning. Because of the failure of the rich nations of the world to provide more than token assistance, the resources of the nations of first refuge, especially Malaysia and Thailand, are being stretched beyond reasonable limits. 
As a wealthy nation within the region most affected, Australia is able to play a major part in the rescue as well as resettlement of these refugees. 
It should be possible for Australia to: establish and maintain on the Australian mainland basic transit camps for the housing and processing of 200,000 refugees each year; mobilise the Defence Force to search for, rescue and transport to Australia those refugees who have been able to leave the Indo-China States; accept the offer of those church groups which propose to resettle some thousands of refugees in Australia. 
The adoption of such a humane policy would have a marked effect on Australia 's standing within the region. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 -Mr President, I present the 176th and 177th reports of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
Ordered that the reports be printed. 
by leave- I present a statement by the Tertiary Education Commission entitled 'Funding of Tertiary Education' and ask leave of the Senate to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
The Committee has decided to depart from its usual practice of not releasing evidence submitted to it in advance of its report. Due to the importance of this inquiry, it has decided to table the submission from the Tertiary Education Commission. 
This submission to the Public Accounts Committee is the first definitive statement by the Tertiary Education Commission, which was established in June 1977, on its functions and operations. The submission not only provides details of the procedures followed by the Commission in recommending Commonwealth funds for tertiary education and in administering approved programs but also describes the respective roles of the Commission, State authorities and tertiary institutions. 
The Public Accounts Committee and the Tertiary Education Commission's Chairman, Professor Peter Karmel, believe the early publication of this document will give individuals and institutions a further opportunity to provide comment to the Committee before we formally take oral evidence. The Committee believes it will also satisfy a wide community interest that has been generated by the inquiry. 
The Public Accounts Committee's inquiry into the funding of tertiary education was initiated in May 1979 to review the arrangements for Commonwealth funding of universities, colleges of advanced education and technical and further education, with particular reference to the respective roles of the Commonwealth, State and institutional bodies concerned and with the objective of finding whether the administration and co-ordination of funding arrangements are cost effective. The terms of reference for the inquiry are: 
. To inquire into the system of grants to support tertiary education. 
To inquire into the operations of the Tertiary Education Commission and its associated councils with particular reference to: 
The relationships between the Commission and the councils and State education co-ordinating authorities, State departments concerned with education, and tertiary education institutions; 
the procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to require the appropriate authorities to account for the expenditure of funds appropriated by the Australian Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the appropriate State grants legislation, and the Audit Act, and to determine whether the conditions attached to grants are adequate; 
the procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to evaluate, or have evaluated, tertiary education institutions, their courses and the product' of tertiary education; and 
the procedures adopted by the Commission and the councils to investigate, report on and recommend alternative action for the allocation of resources in the tertiary education sector. 
As a result of our Federal-State Public Accounts Committee Conference in June 1977, it was agreed that real advantages might be gained in conducting inquiries into subjects such as education where concurrent responsibilities exist. I refer honourable senators to the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, sections 107 and 108. We have therefore invited the public accounts committees of State parliaments to consider holding complementary inquiries as State authorities have a constitutional responsibility for the administration of tertiary institutions, including accountability for the distribution of funds to those institutions. 
I refer now to the Committee's 176th report which I have just tabled. Each year the AuditorGeneral reports to Parliament. The Committee's 176th report concerns matters raised in the Auditor-General's 1977-78 reports. During the inquiry, the committee sought submissions from several departments and government authorities and held public hearings into matters relating to the Departments of Defence, Education, Primary Industry and National Development as well as the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. 
The Committee examined the AuditorGeneral 's reference to the Department of Defence 's handling of rental charges on Royal Australian Navy pipelines at Fremantle. The Committee was appalled that, although an oil company had made proposals in 1969 to effect lease rental changes in 1970, at the date of its inquiry almost 10 years later the Department had been unable to complete the matter. The Committee has also been critical at the lack of adequate departmental monitoring procedures which can allow overpayments and undercollecnon of revenue by departments to continue over many years. 
The Committee examined the Beef Industry Incentive Payments Scheme which was hurriedly introduced in 1977. The Department of Primary Industry, in the Committee's view, demonstrated a lack of some capacity to cope with stringent time constraints. The Department conceded that, in certain areas, it had misinterpreted its legislation. The Committee noted inadequate prepayment and ADP administrative control procedures and was also critical of the apparent lack of flexibility within the Public Service to meet short-term staff needs such as those which arose in this case. 
In examining aspects of the Department of Education's control over student assistance allowances, the Committee is aware of the Department's difficulties in reconciling the need for prompt and regular payment of benefits with the demands for proper control of public moneys. However, the Committee believes that the Department's previous neglect of control and recovery functions, particularly in relation to its ADP controls, has contributed to the present high level of overpayments. The Committee was disappointed with the poor preparation of witnesses and with the uncertainty exhibited by the Department with regard to the degree of cooperation by tertiary institutions. The Department had initially contended that there was a lack of co-operation by institutions but progressively modified this during the course of the inquiry. 
The Department also showed an attitude of resignation to continuing high overpayments, in its stance that as students did not always observe its requirements then its procedures must be adapted accordingly to allow for student shortcomings. Such an attitude is not acceptable to the Committee, which has emphasised the view that receipt of public money carries with it corresponding obligations and responsibilities which cannot be ignored or minimised. The Committee has recommended changes to the application forms for TEAS- Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme- which it believes will place greater onus on students to recognise and act upon their responsibility to advise the Department of status changes. The Committee has also recommended that the student assistance schemes which are currently not enacted should be legislated. It was advised by the Department that such a task would occupy a number of staff for approximately five years, primarily in the drafting of regulations. This estimate particularly dismayed the Committee in view of its recommendations in its 1 44th and 1 59th reports, which were directed at reducing the delays in the preparation of subordinate legislation. 
The Committee has commenced inquiries into three other topics arising from the AuditorGeneral's 1977-78 reports and will table, when completed, substantive reports on off-shore petroleum royalties, the late submission of financial statements by statutory authorities and other bodies, and the Canberra Commercial Development Authority. 
I refer now to the Committee's 177th report which presents the official response from the Department of Finance, in the form of finance minutes, to the Committee's 168th and 173rd reports. These reports concerned expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer for the financial year 1976-77 and expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for the financial year 1977-78. The Committee has commented on the Department of Defence's response to the difficulty of introducing procedures to ensure adequate commitment control. The Committee proposes to review this when it again examines the Department's use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance. I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
I present the following petition from 18 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Thata grave threat to the life of refugees from the various States of Indo-China arises from the policies of the Government of Vietnam. 
That, as a result of these policies, many thousands of refugees are fleeing their homes and risking starvation and drowning. Because of the failure of the rich nations of the world to provide more than token assistance, the resources of the nations of first refuge, especially Malaysia and Thailand, are being stretched beyond reasonable limits. 
As a wealthy nation within the region most affected, Australia is able to play a major part in the rescue as well as resettlement of these refugees. 
It should be possible for Australia to: - establish and maintain on the Australian mainland basic transit camps for the housing and processing of 200,000 refugees each year; - mobilise the Defence Force to search for, rescue and transport to Australia those refugees who have been able to leave the Indo-China States; - accept the offer of those church groups which propose to resettle some thousands of refugees in Australia. 
The adoption of such a humane policy would have a marked effect on Australia 's standing within the region. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Tertiary Education Institutions in the Australian Capital Territory 

 -Mr President, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 1 78th report of the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave-  Mr President,  the 178th report relates specifically to evidence taken in connection with items of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance in 1978-79. As honourable senators are aware, after the close of each financial year the Minister for Finance submits to Parliament a statement of expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance showing allocations to heads of expenditure made by him under section 36a of the Audit Act. It is a long-standing practice of this Committee to report upon the use of the advance during the Budget session. The Committee received explanations from departments on each item shown in the Minister's statement. In all, we examined 106 departmental explanations and sought additional information from seven departments. Twenty further explanations were obtained from departments and authorities in respect of a submission from the Department of Foreign Affairs relating to an overseas imprest account. Four items were selected for further public examination. A submission was also obtained from Telecom in relation to explanations from six departments concerning billing cycles. 
A number of drawings from the Advance were for salaries and allowances which fell outside the ambit of section 5 of Appropriation Act (No. 1 ) which was first included in 1 973-74 to reduce a very heavy use of the Advance to satisfy salary determinations. The introductory chapter of this report gives a more detailed explanation of the operation of this section which provides a special appropriation authorising the Minister for Finance, during a particular financial year, to issue out of Consolidated Revenue Fund such amounts as he determines to be necessary to meet estimated increases in salaries and wages, and payments in the nature of salary for which provision is made in Schedule 2 to the Act; and which become payable during that year in accordance with a law or an award, order or determination under a law. 
In examining expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance, the Committee sought to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advance to the Minister for Finance had been confined to urgent and unforeseen requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional Estimates. The Committee also sought to ascertain whether or not the departments concerned had maintained efficient administration in the expenditure under the item selected for inquiry. Evidence taken during this inquiry has shown there were cases of clerical error, administrative oversight, procedural weaknesses within departments and inadequate estimating. Attention has been drawn to these inadequacies where they have been discovered. The Committee found that, generally, expenditure from the Advance was confined to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the appropriation Acts. The policy of financial restraint imposed upon departments over the last few years has required departments to apply greater care to ensure that their financial requirements are met within the approved appropriations. Whereas in previous years the Committee found evidence that some departments believed the Advance to the Minister for Finance was a simple means of covering shortfalls in their estimating performance, there has been a marked improvement in departments ' estimating which has meant less demands have been made from the Advance to the Minister for Finance, except in those cases which were urgent and unforeseen. 
In the report the Committee has emphasised that departments or authorities which receive a reimbursement claim in respect of overseas transactions have a clear responsibility to make payment as soon as possible. The Committee expressed concern that debtor departments are frequently delaying reimbursement of claims because of a shortage of funds in the relevant appropriation. It is the Committee's view that the payment of any account should not be delayed because of lack of funds and that departments should be encouraged to apply for funds from the Advance to the Minister for Finance for this purpose. The Committee believes that the Commonwealth should pay its bills promptly. Failure to do so could cause liquidity problems for others. On 9 November 1974 the Prime Minister issued instructions that the Commonwealth should as a matter of policy satisfy its creditors as quickly as possible. We believe that financial obligations should be settled by Commonwealth departments and authorities within the normal 30-day business cycle or earlier if incentive discounts are available for prompt settlement. A detailed explanation of the development and use of the Advance to the Minister for Finance is provided in Chapter 1 of the Committee's 173rd report which was tabled at this time last year. A report from the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations in August 1979 provides additional background. 
The Senate Committee in that report concluded that the current system for the use of the Advance is satisfactory. However, it recommended: 
That expenditure from the Advance in addition to items already appropriated for, or new items be permitted only in urgent and unforeseen' circumstances; that the above criteria be set out in the finance regulations made under the Audit Act; and that the explanations accompanying the Appropriation Bills, which are examined by Senate Estimates Committees, be accompanied by a separate section of each department showing the funds which have already been provided from the Advance. 
The Public Accounts Committee agrees with these recommendations. The Senate committee also recommended: 
That the amount appropriated to the Advance in Appropriation Acts Nos 1 and 2 be limited to 2.3 per cent of the total of the previous year's general Appropriation Acts. If the amount is exceeded, then the matter should be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
The Public Accounts Committee would agree that the amount appropriated for the Advance to the Minister for Finance should be kept to a minimum. However, we have reservations about applying any arbitrary limit based on historical expenditure patterns as the Advance is specifically designed to finance urgent and unforeseen expenditure. The Senate Committee's final recommendation is: 
That a statement of approvals of expenditure from the Advance be published at the end of each calendar month and then tabled in Parliament at the earliest opportunity. The statement should indicate into which category each item of expenditure falls, that is, whether it is expenditure to fund payments pending the issue of Governor-General's Warrants, to make advances which will be repaid within the financial year, to make moneys available for supplementation of existing appropriations for specified purposes or to make moneys available for new services for which no specific appropriation has been made. The statement should show all expenditure but only expenditure above $50,000 for the other categories. 
The Public Accounts Committee supports the need for keeping the Parliament better informed. 
However, the Committee believes that the administrative arrangements to provide such a statement for parliamentary review purposes may not prove to be cost-effective. Nevertheless, the recommendation should be seriously considered. The Public Accounts Committee has traditionally examined the Advance to the Minister for Finance in detail and intends to continue its long-standing practice of reporting during the Budget session on the use of the Advance to both Houses of the Parliament. It is appropriate for matters relating to the Advance to the Minister for Finance to be referred to the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. 
-Could the Minister for Education inform the Senate of the Government's strategy in relation to the education and training of young people at risk in Australian schools in connection with youth unemployment? 
-Can the Minister for Education indicate the justification for building an additional technical and further education college in Canberra, the Woden Technical and Further Education College, when it appears that educational facilities in Canberra are already well above the national average? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs aware of reports that a survey conducted by the New South Wales Department of Youth and Community Services indicated that, of more than 97,000 people receiving unemployment benefit and, therefore, eligible for fare concessions, only 6,750 people applied for them? What conclusions can be drawn from the result of this survey? Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the fare concessions scheme for unemployed people in the Australian Capital Territory and how much use has been made of that scheme? 
I speak in support of the Public Accounts Committee Amendment Bill 1979. Before I start debating the Bill I would like to read from the second reading speech by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr John McLeay),  in which he said: 
Honourable members will be aware of the Government's policy to strengthen the parliamentary system and to enable Parliament adequately to review the activities of government administration. One facet of this process is the broadening of parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. 
The Public Accounts Committee is one of the committees that undertakes that parliamentary scrutiny. It is one of the oldest committees of this Parliament. It was established under the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951. The Public Accounts Committee is constituted by seven members of the House of Representatives and three members of the Senate. I was appointed to this Committee in March 1977. 1 am serving on it together with distinguished honourable senators from this chamber who have taken part in the deliberations of the Committee over the years. This is one of the first occasions that substantial amendments to the Act have been made since the Committee was established. The amendments are being put to the Parliament to update the Committee's procedures and operations. 
Unfortunately, little is known about the functions of the Public Accounts Committee by members of the Parliament. Even less is known by the media. They are completely ignored by the general public. For that I blame the media. If the media would take a little more interest in the works of the standing committees, particularly the joint parliamentary committees, perhaps the public would be able to judge the work of the parliamentarians differently. The vice-chairman of the Public Accounts Committee, the honourable member for Banks,  Mr Martin,  in a speech in the other place said: 
The Commonwealth Public Service has a healthy respect for the Joint Committee of Public Accounts. In fact, I have seen very senior officers in the Service coming before our Committee with the Joe Blakes, as we say- the shakes. That is something which has surprised me. 
I agree with the honourable member for Banks, but only partially. My experience in the last two and a half years sometimes has been quite different. I have found the attitudes of some public servants to be quite the opposite. Their attitudes have surprised me. They thought that the members were there just to listen to what they had to say. They answered our questions in a half joking way. Some of them completely disregarded our questions. The attitudes of some public servants- I emphasise some- are such that I feel that the Parliament ought to know that sometimes when a public servant is given a directive by the Government, the Parliament or the Cabinet as was the case in the incident I have in mind, he gives instructions to his subordinates to disregard it. He says: 'We are not morally or legally obliged to take directions from the Cabinet'. I feel that the public should know who has the power to run this country. We often hear from the other side of the chamber that it is the Executive which has the power to govern. In my two and a half years as a senator I have found that some public servants reckon that that is their prerogative. I object to that. I hope that the people of Australia will hear what I am saying today. They will be able to judge that some public servants are hiding behind the anonymity of the Public Service. They should serve the public and not take the arrogant view that they know all. The servants of the public, which all members of the Parliament are, should be given reasonable answers to their questions when they try to find out how departments are governed and run. 
The duty of the Public Accounts Committee is to oversee expenditure which has already taken place. Further, it is to examine the accounts of receipts and expenditure for the whole of the Commonwealth and report to the Parliament. Our examinations were limited until now. The Public Accounts Committee Amendment Bill provides that we will be able to look into the accounts of statutory bodies. We have heard a lot about statutory bodies. There are about 250 of them compared with 31 federal departments. Clause 5 (c) of the Bill inserts new sub-sections. The purpose of the change is to bring the financial affairs of authorities and intergovernmental bodies subject to certain limitations described below within the ambit of the Committee's scrutiny. 
Clause 5(b) provides for the substitution of the following paragraph in section 8 of the Principal Act: (ab) to examine all reports of the Auditor-General (including reports of the results of efficiency audits) copies of which have been laid before the Houses of Parliament; . . . 
Section 8a of the Principal Act now restricts the Committee's examination to reports made in pursuance of sub-section 53 ( 1 ) of the Audit Act. It is also important that the amendment which I am now supporting will enable the Committee to function during the parliamentary recess, and further that it will reduce the present quorum of members from six to four, giving the Committee far greater flexibility and increasing the capability to examine many more items of government departments. In the Parliament three committees are examining the functioning and running of departments. One is in the House of Representatives, the Standing Committee on Expenditure; the second is the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations; and the third is the Joint Statutory Committee on Public Accounts. 
In conclusion, I should like to mention one point. If all members of the Parliament took part in the committee examination in detail of the expenditure by the Government, no one would be able to finish his or her work, and it is important that the taxpayers' interests are guarded by us, the servants of the public. I support the Bill. 
