I direct my question to the Leader of the Government who in this place represents the Minister for Trade and Industry. In view of the current difficulties in finding markets for much of our primary produce will investigation be made into the possibilities of entering into barter arrangements with underdeveloped countries which require various of our surplus primary products but which have not the financial capability to purchase them under normal trading practice? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government, who represents the Treasurer in this place. I refer to the receipts taxes collected by the States and the recent partial invalidation by the full High Court of this form of tax when levied by the States. It appears that those taxpayers who registered an objection to the tax when submitting their initial returns may qualify for remission of the tax paid to 18th November last. As thousands of law abiding citizens may be denied refunds merely on a technical point - a nonregistration of objection to the tax - will the Go-' vernment consider so assisting the States as to enable them to act uniformly with all taxpayers in the matter of possible refunds? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. Have any reports been received by the Department of Works which indicate that the air-conditioned installations at the Adelaide airport terminal building, particularly in the refreshment rooms, are falling short of maintaining the usual level of cool temperatures at peak traffic hours in hot and humid weather conditions? Will action be taken to overcome this inadequacy in an otherwise highly commendable building complex? 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Has the Government completed its investigations into the incentive schemes offered by overseas countries to their tourist industries? If so, can the Minister indicate whether any of the schemes could have application in Australia? 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of a steep increase in insurance premiums covering Australia's exports to the Arabian Gulf and Red Sea ports, Aden and North African Mediterranean ports? Is he also aware that in the case of flour exports the normal all-risk cover, exclusive of war risk, has risen by 500% in the last 6 months from 50c a ton to S2.50 a ton? Will the Minister have the immensely excessive charges investigated as they constitute a serious handicap to export capability? 
 I express support for this Bill and seek leave to continue my remarks on a future day. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents in this chamber the Treasurer. My question is in relation to expenses incurred in voluntary work performed by elected members of councils in local government which is the third tier of government. Will the Treasurer consider the introduction of an income tax deduction allowance at a common level for all members of district councils and corporations to cover the expenses which are necessarily incurred in the discharge of their duties? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Supply. Is the Minister aware of a statement which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' last week indicating that the Whyalla Shipbuilding and Engineering Works would be interested in building the proposed Army logistics cargo ship? Is the Minister aware of the scope for and extent of industrial expansion in South Australia based on existing industrial capacity? Will favourable consideration be given to greater use of this capacity through Government orders for such defence requirements as the logistics cargo ship and other defence needs? 
J direct a question to the Leader of the Government as the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that since the institution of taxation deductions allowable per child for education expenses in 1952-53 the following rates have applied: 1952-53, $100; from 1953-54 to 1955-56, $150; from 1956-57 to 1962-63, $200; and from 1963-64 to 1968-69, S300? As there has been no increase in the allowance for the last 6 years, will consideration be given in the compilation of the next Budget to increasing this allowance in line with increased costs to parents since 1964 and with average increases since 1952? 
by leave - I present the following paper: 
Inter-Parliamentary Union- 57th Conference held at New Delhi, 30th October to 7th November 1969 - Report of Australian Delegation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 Senator LAUCKE (South Australia)- by leave - I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
The Australian delegation which attended the Conference at New Delhi consisted of  Senator Byrne, Senator Hendrickson, Mr Birrell,  M.P.,  Mr Hallett,  M.P.,  Mr Devine,  who was the  Deputy  Leader, and myself. I had the honour to lead the delegation. Our delegation played an active role in all aspects of the conference deliberations such as the council discussions, where  Senator Hendrickson  and I represented the Australian group, the debates in plenary session and the discussions in the study committees. It was also my honour to participate in the deliberations of the small but very important working group on the question of universality of entrance to the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The report which I have presented on behalf of the delegation covers all these aspects of the Conference. 
The agenda, as one would expect, was a comprehensive one and covered such questions as the role and responsibilities of medium and small powers in the maintenance of international peace, social progress as a factor and condition of economic development, prospects for agreement on the control of armaments, the role of parliament in the protection of the human environment and the conservation of nataral resources for future generations, relations between parliament and local authorities and cultural exchanges as a means of increasing understanding between countries. Honourable senators will, I feel sure, find the report of the discussions on these agenda items both interesting and informative. There is much more that 1 would like to say about this Conference, but 1 shall not take up any further time of the Senate at this stage. Therefore. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
The purpose of the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill is well  known  to honourable senators  as there has  been quite a lot of discussion about it. It is to enable the Commonwealth to meet  its  obligation under a guarantee given  to  the Reserve Bank  of  Australia on behalf of the Australian Wheat Board. The amount to  be  authorised is S300m, the need for which arises from the fact that proceeds from the 1968-69 pool are insufficient for the Board to meet its commitments to the Bank by the due date, that is, the 31st of this month. It is very noteworthy that this is the first occasion  on  which the Commonwealth has been called upon under guarantees given by it  to  the Bank for the Wheat Board in a period of 22 years since the present legislation has been in operation and over 30 pools have existed. The difficulty  experienced  by the Board in disposing of the wheat production over the last couple of years is reflected in the introduction of this Bill. Honourable senators will recall that the 1968-69 wheat crop was a record  one  of 538.6 million bushels. Arrangements were made for the Board to borrow up to $624m from the Rural Credits Department  of  the Reserve Bank and the slow progress in disposing of the huge amount of wheat in that pool has now led to the shortfall of finance available to the Board to meet its commitment of $250m. 
We must keep the situation of the wheat industry and the Board's present financial position in fair perspective. It reflects very creditably on the Australian Wheat Board that up to the 1968-69 crop through alert and alive sales activities the Board has been able to keep the decks pretty clear so far as carryovers are concerned over a period of nearly 30 years during which the Board has been the authority responsible for the receipt and disposal of the Australian wheat crop. In evaluating the present position of the wheat industry one has to bear in mind that the industry traditionally experiences marked fluctuations in supply and demand. The immediate postwar years were years of shortage. I think it is a good thing and a fair thing to look back over the years, and in so doing to place the present situation in proper perspective. By the early 1950s there was an enormous surplus of wheat, especially in the United States of America. By 1960 and up to 1965 stocks were at a low level as a result of restriction on acreages in the United States and the large purchases made at that time by China and Russia. Australian production increased in that buoyant sales situation. 
Over the decade 1950-60 the Australian average crop was 175 million bushels, but since 1960 the crop has averaged 340 million bushels. Production broke the 300 million bushels barrier for the first time in 1962-63. In 1966-67 the very high production figure of 400 million bushels was reached. Then we had the all time record of 538 million bushels in 1968-69. Until 1968 wheat prices had held pretty well. The average return for wheat exported in 1966-67 was the highest ever at 144.9c a bushel. The situation in Australia at that time was one of mounting production and an ability to dispose of our crop to the benefit of our economy within Australia and also to the benefit of our credits in overseas funds. 
The fact that we have been able to place our wheat through the years until quite recently has been due to the excellent selling activities of the Board. It has found markets for the sale of wheat well away from the traditional market in the United Kingdom before 
World War II. Today we send our wheat to over 30 countries and this illustrates the continuing sales activity of the Wheat Board. Our largest purchaser of wheat is the Peoples Republic of China which will take from us this year 88 million bushels. The next most important customer in recent years has been Japan. The United Kingdom ranks third. Although we have this very heavy dependence on sales to these 3 countries, we have a very wide range of purchasers for our wheat. The policy of the Government in respect of the activities of the Wheat Board, in my opinion, does not call for the criticism which we have had from the Opposition. 
The other day  Senator McClelland  said that the Government has in the wheat industry a record of coercion and lethargy. In my opinion that statement cannot be substantiated. It is true to say that the Government has a record of understanding and generosity to the wheat industry and this is evidenced by the history of guaranteed prices backed by the Government. There has been no coercion by the Government in respect of the imposition of quotas. The proposals for the introduction of quotas came from the Australian Wheatgrowers Federation. It is good to see a spirit  of  independence, as it were, on behalf of the grower organisations in seeking to arrive at a solution conducive to the long term interests and certainly the immediate interests of the industry. There has been no direct coercion. 
The Opposition's amendment states that the Government has failed to give positive leadership to overcome the crisis in the wheat industry. The world 'leadership' implies direction. A body has been set up to receive and to dispose of the Australian wheat crop. It has a charter which it has acted upon in a way which has produced a very excellent method of receiving and disposing our wheat without undue interference by the Government. The personnel of the Australian Wheat Board include one person who is engaged in commerce and who has experience of the wheat trade, a finance member, a representative of the flour millers, a representative of the employees, 2 wheat growers representing New South Wales, 2 growers representing Victoria, 2 growers representing Queensland, 2 growers representing South Australia and 2 growers representing 
Western Australia. The Board consists predominantly of farmers. Men who are interested in and are active in the industry are on the Board, with representatives of other authorities to give it a pretty well balanced background of ability and knowledge. I think it would be very wrong to intrude unnecessarily or for reasons of political expediency into the activities of this properly constituted authority which has done an excellent job for the industry. 
We now have a situation of over-supply. This is worldwide. It relates even to rice grown in Japan. In recent years 14 million tons of rice have been grown each year and the maximum amount sold each year has been 12 million tons. Each year 2 million tons of rice have been grown for which a market cannot be found. This underlies the difficulties facing the wheat industry. Bearing in mind the violent fluctuations in world demands for basic food cereals, I think that with a responsible approach - as indicated by the activities of the farmers in introducing quotas and seeking to have those quotas given legislative backing - to the difficulties now before us the situation will improve. I can see an emergence again of satisfactory conditions in the wheat industry without our throwing up our hands in holy horror and saying that the world is coming to an end. The Government has shown confidence in the industry by the backing that it has given to it. I think that the industry is worthy of further confidence and that the Wheat Board is worthy of the confidence of the Parliament and the people generally. 
Let me refer to the wheat and flour which is made available by the Commonwealth under the World Food Aid Convention and the International Grains Agreement. Under this arrangement Australia provides 225,000 metric tons of grain annually, this being part of the 4.5 million metric tons given annually to aid underdeveloped countries. In this sphere of participation Indonesia currently receives 25,136 metric tons of wheat or flour. I shall not mention all the amounts, but the total provided to Indonesia, India, Pakistan and Burma is 137,895 metric tons. I think that, with persistent application, we will find overseas markets for our wheat. We will have to grow those varieties which will sell in overseas markets. I believe the days are gone when we grew wheat as such without due regard to segregation. We will have to provide those types of wheat which overseas buyers require for their specific purposes. We must never forget that Australian wheat has qualities and attributes peculiar to itself. Be it in ease of milling, in colour, in moisture content or in flour yield, these attributes of our wheat are without peer throughout the world. I have every confidence in the future activities of the wheat industry. I commend the Government for its current assistance to meet the requirements of the Board. I reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation, further to his recent statement that an aircraft noise abatement consultative committee would be established in Adelaide, whether the personnel of this committee has as yet been determined. If so, could he tell us the names of its members and the organisations that they represent? 
My question is directed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. I seek clarification concerning articles appearing in today's 'Sydney Morning Herald' apropos the development of Alice Springs for tourism. The Minister is reported as having said that American desert resorts such as Las Vegas and Palm Springs could provide the model for the development of Alice Springs. The Minister is further reported in this way: 

 Senator Wright said the core of development plans for Alice Springs would be preservation of the natural environment. 
I cannot reconcile those statements with the newspaper's editorial which suggests that the Minister envisages intensive development. Do any of the proposals for Alice Springs in fact take the form of high rise building development? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government who represents the Prime Minister in this place. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the plight of the Andamooka opal mining settlement in the far north of South Australia arising from a desperate shortage of water which has resulted in the population of 1,500 people having to rely on a water ration of a gallon per day per person? Is there any provision or precedent under the drought relief arrangement whereby Commonwealth assistance can be rendered to outback communities not engaged in rural production which are suffering acutely from the effects of drought and are subject to the heavy costs incidental to long distance water haulage? 
 I commend the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in the other place and the Government for the introduction of this legislation. I regard the activities of the Meals on Wheels organisation, which this legislation sets out to assist, as one of the finest instances of community service by people who desire to help their fellow citizens who require kind consideration. The subsidy of $1 for each 10 meals served will be a boon to the organisations in the cities and larger provincial towns of Australia. In Adelaide we have in mind, with a deep sense of gratitude, the work which was done by Miss Doris Taylor about 15 years ago when she instituted a system of home care which provided meals to needy citizens. It was called the Meals on Wheels organisation. She pioneered an avenue of community service which, over the years, has proved to be of real value in the maintenance of an atmosphere of thought and consideration for those people who needed the kind consideration of others. At the time of the establishment of the Meals on Wheels organisation in Adelaide Miss Taylor said: 
It is not a charity; it is a social experiment. It is an attempt to solve the problem of the care of the aged under modern conditions. It is, I hope, the beginning and centre of a home service scheme, a scheme which could meet all the needs of the aged and enable them to live their lives as part of the community with the maximum of independence, freedom, and comfort possible to old age. 
This worthy lady went on to say that institutions for aged persons - old folks homes and institutions of that nature - were not the answer to many of the problems of the aged because the provision of only a few rather minor forms of assistance would enable these people to continue as residents in their own homes. I am very pleased to see that reference is made in the legislation to the fact that part of the Government's home care programme is designed to provide housekeeping, home nursing and other services to the aged with a view to maintaining them in their own homes for as long as possible. 

 Senator Mulvihill referred to this division of interest, as it were, in home care as being something of a fragmentary scheme. I cannot agree that there is anything detrimental in the various aspects of assistance which arise from this endeavour in the social services field. In South Australia the State Government provides $5,000 a year to the Meals on Wheels organisation. An amount of $17,000 was made available over 3 years to meet the capital requirements. The amount of 30c is charged for a meal delivered in Adelaide and the larger country towns. The subsidy of 10c a meal will assist very greatly in improving the service now being given. 
This is a direct subsidy to the approved organisation. 
At the present time the Meals on Wheels organisations provide the meals and therefore they will be eligible to receive this subsidy. 
Yes, the organisation does provide the meals. The governmental assistance provided at the present time is $5,000 per year. By button days and various other fund raising activities the organisation is providing the necessary funds so that the meals can be provided at a cost of 30c to the recipient. I am pleased to note that meals supplied last year will attract the subsidy under the legislation. I note in the Minister's second reading speech that the first payment will be made in respect of meals delivered during the 1969 calendar year. 
I say again that I warmly commend the Government for its interest in assisting those organisations whose purpose it is to assist others. I have much pleasure indeed in supporting this Bill. 
Right from the inception of the proposal to build the Chowilla Dam on the River Murray upstream from Renmark in South Australia, I have been a keen and continuing advocate of the project. I remain so today, but with a realisation of current circumstances and realities and decisions that have been made by the Commonwealth Government and the governments of South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. I believe that the advantages and benefits which it was claimed would be derived from this dam remain today as they were in 1961 when Chowilla was accepted by the River Murray Commission and acclaimed and ratified by the governments of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia and the Commonwealth in 1963. 
At that time the estimated cost was $28m, and that amount was written into the Agreement. However, by 1965 the estimated cost had risen to $43m, and when tenders were called in 1967 the lowest tender received was for $68m. It was this escalation in cost, and this alone, which led to the cessation of building activity at Chowilla. The River Murray Commission recommended at the time of the escalation to the bigger figure that the work which had begun at Chowilla should be halted to enable a reappraisal of the scheme to be made. The then Premier of South Australia,  Mr Don  Dunstan, issued a statement on 14th November 1967, in which he said: 
The present studies being carried out by the River Murray Commission are for the purpose of exploring the maximum use that can be made of the waters of the River Murray. It had been Indicated earlier that by the construction of Chowilla Dam South Australia would gain considerable relief from periodic restriction of supply and the upstream States would benefit also. 
The decision to defer the construction of Chowilla Dam arose from factors not previously established. Current investigations are aimed to sustain the advantages mentioned. 
I believe that it was at that time that South Australia lost the binding legal force, which it did have through legislation, with the signatories to the Agreement. I am quite certain that had the Playford Government continued in office after the 1965 elections there would have been no cessation of work on the dam and that the Agreement on the basis of the accepted figure of $43m - that was the figure at which all parties to the Agreement were prepared to go forward with the project - would have been maintained by the South Australian Government going it alone for the time being, to use a bit of slang, pending financial rearrangement as between the parties to the Agreement in respect of the $25m increase over the agreed $43m. 
Under this policy Chowilla by now would have been fulfilling its intended function. Were this to have been so, I have no doubt that the Dartmouth Dam would have followed quickly because of its yield ability, the requirement of a 900 cusec flow past the Mildura and other Victorian irrigation areas and the upper States' growing water demands. We would then have had the ideal conditions for all States, with a very effective harnessing of the resources of the Murray. I am not opposed to the building of the Dartmouth Dam. ft will provide major benefits to each of the contracting States. 1 commend the Premier of South Australia for negotiating the increase in South Australia's water entitlement from 1,254,000 acre feet to 1,500,000 acre feet and also to agreement upon the division of water among the 3 States in equal parts in time of restriction. This increase in entitlement is the first since 1914, and bearing in mind South Australia's great dependence on reticulated water supplies it is indeed welcome and vitally necessary. 
But, as generous and helpful as the South Australian entitlement is. the real benefit of the Dartmouth storage will not accrue until such time as we have a further storage downstream which will preserve and enhance the benefits to South Australia of the upper storage. This again means Chowilla. 
Much has been said about yield, and yield alone when comparing the Darmouth and Chowilla projects. But it is obvious that each dam has a somewhat different function. The one in the mountains - the Dartmouth Dam - is predominantly to produce. The other - -the Chowilla Dam - by reason of its situation is to conserve and regulate the flow, lt will relieve considerably the stresses on reserves in the headwater storage in dry years and enable both reserves to maintain the desired How through the river in its entirety. I am greatly concerned that in stress times flows will have to be reduced dangerously with only 1 dam. A shortage of waver" in the River Murray system finds South Australia particularly vulnerable because when drought conditions occur in the main watershed of the River Murray the same drought conditions have almost invariably occurred in the main South Australian reservoir catchment areas, lt is therefore in times of restriction that South Australia could be in a disastrous position. The situation can be met only by storing the maximum possible amount of water in times of ready availability for insurance against times of stress. 
The most important factors to be taken into consideration when planning new storages are, firstly, the capacity that can be provided in a given storage and, secondly, the location of the site in relation to all contributing streams. The Chowilla site satisfies these conditions, having a capacity of 5 million acre feet or twice the capacity of the Hume Reservoir and being at a site downstream from all contributing streams. Irrespective of the source of flow - whether it be the Darling, the Mitta Mitta, the Mumimbidgee, the Goulburn or any other tributary - any surplus flow must reach Ihe Chowilla conserving site. The increase in entitlement of 246,000 acre feet - that is the increase to South Australia under this agreement - does little more than meet the immediate need. That is why it is so vital thai consideration be given as quickly as possible to ensuring greater storage of water than Dartmouth alone will provide. 
Let me quote from an article written by  Mr H.  L. Beaney, the Director and Engineer-in-Chief of the South Australian Engineering and Water Supply Department. He says: 
The increased allotment - the first increase in the Stale's water entitlement in SO pears - is subject to ratification of legislation to enable Dartmouth lo be constructed. It is the opportunity for a major breakthrough in the State's water prospects and this was not and could not have been obtained from Chowilla. 250,000 acre feet of available water assures the maintenance of Ihe irrigation industry on the River Murray and assures the pipeline systems that spread through the major part of the State. 250,000 acre feet of water is more than the total available water resource of the whole Stale outside of the River Murray and the South East. 
The additional water promised out of Dartmouth is not. unfortunately, available for large scale expansion. In fact it is necessary lo South Australia lo maintain commitments which have already been made on the River Murray. As the last user of the river it is impossible lor South Australia to exploit the full flow, as provision has to be sustained for losses and for some continuing How to remove the build-up of saline water. This  undivertable  water may need to be as much as 700,000 acre feet a year, although research into proper husbandry and river regulation will continue to avoid wastage. The present irrigation commitment is estimated at 450,000 acre feet a year, allowing provision for increased demand over present levels as new plantings mature. The capacity of pipelines, on the completion of all present projects, will he about 325,000 acre feet. There is little to spare, and the danger of trying to live within the original allotment is apparent and could spell disaster iti some areas of water usage. 
So we have 700,000 acre feet undivertable, 450,000 acre feet required for irrigation, and 325,000 acre feet to meet the requirements of the huge reticulation services throughout South Australia, making a total of 1,475,000 acre feet, which is only 25,000 acre feet below our full entitlement.  Mr Beaney  also states: 
A storage at Chowilla is fully practicable . . . 
There is no doubt that the Chowilla proposal would achieve its design aims for South Australia. The project was also accepted by New South Wales and Victoria as conferring considerable benefits to them, lt was expected to allow each of these upper river States to increase their water diversion from the River Murray. This benefit would derive from the ability of Chowilla to supply South Australia during the irrigation season leaving available to them water thai would otherwise he required to meet South Australia's allotment. 
Now, to present both sides of the picture, so far as  Mr Beaney  is concerned, and to quote him impartially, I must also refer to another section of his statement in which he says: 
Apart from the high cost of Chowilla the New South Wales and Victorian authorities had seen some of the early promises of benefit from it disappear. The original assumptions as to the operation of Chowilla had not fully recognised some of the problems of river regulation under continued low How conditions and attendant decline in water quality. Providing for these reduced the water benefit likely to be available to the upstream States and at the same time would give no added benefit to South Australia. 
It was in this situation that the River Murray Commission reported that a dam built in the Mitta Mitta River in Victoria could substantially provide for satisfactory river regulation and make available an increase in yield of 860,000 acre feet per annum from the system. The increase is in excess of the benefits that could be conferred by Chowilla. 
I quote that in order to give a round picture of the opinions of this highly qualified engineer. I have given this matter - that is, the Dartmouth proposal and the Chowilla proposal - much consideration and I am fearful for the future well-being of my State if we do not have access to water supply beyond the benefits which we would receive from Dartmouth alone. It must be recognised that South Australia has no permanent rivers of her own, that 90% of the State has an annual rainfall of less than 10 inches, that large areas of pastoral country can be used only if reticulated water is made available, and that our secondary industry is serviced largely by Murray water. We have over 8,000 miles of main trunk pipelines so that we can provide water over large distances of the State. We must also remember that 95% of the total population of South Australia is dependent on such reticulated water. In a year of less than average rainfall, 85% of this water has to be pumped long distances. Two-thirds of our people are dependent completely on Murray water, in the various forms of usage, all the time. 
It can be truthfully asserted that the Murray is the lifeblood of South Australia. Over many years we have seen more and more diversions of water in the upstream States, and we know that further diversions are inevitable. It has been reliably calculated that within 20 years, further usage in Victoria and New South Wales could be of the order of 2 million acre feet. 
Bearing in mind these continuing requirements and the fact that water returning from irrigation lands on the Murray to the river contaminates the river, we have a situation, looking to the future, which gives us great concern. I am quite happy to accept the Dartmouth proposal as a very necessary and major step forward in the general harnessing of the Murray and the provision of water to the 3 States, but we have to consider further storages and consider them very quickly, particularly in the case of South Australia. 1 speak in respect of Chowilla as I do because, if the other States are able to expand their water usage, with the entitlements that they have for some years ahead, and if we in South Australia are nearly at maximum usage, a barrier across the river above our major irrigation settlements in South Australia would give us water in volume and it could be regarded largely as a State storage. We would then be in a position of using the benefits of Dartmouth to the maximum, and our future would be much more assured than that which one can see. Unless action is taken to meet the situation, before many years pass, we could be in real trouble. For the immediate present, to avoid any further delays in the essential harnessing of the Murray, I support the Dartmouth project. It must go forward, and I support this Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he is aware of the concern of the South Australian Exporters Association Incorporated about the disadvantage its members suffer through lack of a direct international air cargo service out of Adelaide. On the opening of Tullamarine Airport and any possible contingent redirection of international air routes across the continent, will consideration be given to the inclusion of Adelaide in order to allow South Australia at least one through service to the United Kingdom and the United States of America and one through service to Asia, on a weekly basis, as is enjoyed by some other States? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the report of the firm of consultants, Messrs Maunsell and Partners, on the proposed Port Pirie to Adelaide rail conversion scheme linking Adelaide with the trans-continental standard gauge scheme yet been submitted to the Government? If not, in view of the urgent need for Adelaide to be linked to the scheme, will every effort be made to expedite the receipt and consideration of the report? 
When speaking in support of the matter of urgency that he moved,  Senator O'Byrne  said that a handful of stud breeders were responsible for the decision partially to remove the embargo on the export of merino rams. This is not so. The industry made a recommendation to the Government, through the Australian Wool Industry Conference, and asked the Government to implement that recommendation. Is the Conference comprised of a handful of stud breeders? Certainly not. It is representative of the industry in general. When the Conference was formed in 1963 it asked the Australian Wool Board to prepare a paper setting out all the advantages and disadvantages of the easing of the embargo. This paper was circulated to all members of the Australian Wool Industry Conference and of the constituent organisations across Australia, and the matter was debated by these organisations. Of the 16 organisations, 13 expressed a wish that a partial lifting of the embargo be made. The Wool Industry Conference made a decision- 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article which appeared in this morning's 'Australian' suggesting that the flow of migrants to Australia could be adversely affected should air transport largely supersede sea transport? Is it a fact that a decision has been made to concentrate on air as the major mode of transport for future migrants? Does the Minister give credence to the suggestion that if this is done it will adversely affect our migrant intake? 
Fill AIRCRAFT 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has an appraisal  been  made of the detrimental effects which would occur to our dairy industry, meat industry, dried and canned fruits industries and other primary industries in the event o! lit.; United Kingdom entering the European Economic Community? What steps are being taken to safeguard our rural export interests in the United Kingdom in the circumstances fo which I refer? 
I desire to direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I direct this question to him because he was, as  Chairman,  a prominent member of the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety, which took evidence some years ago and made the recommendation which is the basis of my question. Has the attention of the Leader of the Government been drawn to a statement by the  President  of the Royal Automobile Association of South Australia,  Mr R.  A. Irwin, claiming that his Association and the other State automobile associations represented in the Australian Automobile Association have been pressing for years for the establishment of a body of trained experts to investigate the basic causes of road accidents in Australia and to highlight the carnage on our roads? As road deaths now constitute a national disaster, will consideration be given by the Government to consultations with the States with a view to the establishment of such a body? 
 In this provision a discretion is given to the Executive. I think we have to keep in mind in considering the various clauses of this Bill that the corporation is essentially a business undertaking and the principles which apply to business generally must be applied in the special circumstances of this particular setup. So I think a discretion as contained in the clause is necessary in these circumstances. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 17 to 36 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 37 (Report and financial statements). 
-I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government. In view of the States' unanimous approval and acceptance of the mirror legislation provisions in respect of offshore petroleum resources and the expressed intention of the Government, as I understand it, to have the off-shore mineral resources and other direct State interests covered in like manner, as between State and Commonwealth, after legal interpretation of basic sovereignty rights, will the Commonwealth initiate a further conference with the States to arrive at mutually satisfactory conclusions in this complex matter? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in today's edition of the 'Australian' concerning shipping freight charges between Australia and Europe in which the  chairman  of Overseas Containers Limited is reported to have stated that a significant increase in rates must be imposed? Does the experience gained through our national participation in overseas shipping business indicate justification for an increase in rates? 
 Mr Deputy President,  I direct this question to the Minister who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in the Senate. In respect to the causes of rejection of Australian mutton on the Canadian and United States of America markets, does the Minister regard research thus far made into the avoidance and eradication of cysticerosis to have been given sufficient emphasis? If not, will he take up with the Minister the necessity for an intensive research programme to overcame this basic problem? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Treasurer whether his attention has been drawn to the joint survey of industrial trends over the last 3 months made by the Bank of New South Wales, and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, which reveals a slackening in the production of engineering and build.ng materials in New South Wales and South Australia particularly. Is it a fact that past experience has shown the South Australian economy, which is heavily dependent on the motor vehicle, house appliance and building industries, to be particularly adversely affected by this sort of trend? Will close attention be paid to the South Australian economic barometer in these vital matters as the determinant of national economic financial policy? 
On my arrival in Canberra only a short time ago, my attention was drawn to the joint survey to which the honourable senator referred. 1 have asked for some information in relation to it through the Treasury. As at this point of time I have not received any comment from the Department. As soon as 1 do I shall be happy to make a statement in the Senate. 
 I support the principle of the marginal dairy farms reconstruction scheme, as provided in this legislation. For this reason and because the legislation shows consideration for the well being of the small man 1 wish to address a few words to the bill. This scheme shows understanding and takes a positive approach to the alleviation of the special difficulties being experienced by many small dairy farmers. The proposition provides for 2 situations. It provides for the small farmer who wishes to extend his farm from an uneconomic unit to one which can be made viable. This viability would come through a greater acreage of land and consequent greater production from the holding. The second situation provided for is that which allows for the small farmer who wishes to retire from the industry to do so with reasonable value for his assets and his investment and which enables him to enter another vocation with some cash in hand. If he has to leave his holding through sheer economic distress, he will not be left with only the break-up residual value accruing to him. 
The most appealing aspect of the legislation is summed up in the closing paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech when he said that the scheme reinforces the concept of the single unit family farm as the basis of agriculture in this country. That is the core and the great merit of the legislation. We hear so often these days that efficiency lies .only in the large unit. I do not believe that that is so, provided that a unit can reach a level of production or turnover that will cover reasonably the costs incidental to running the business. Therefore, given a reasonable gross turnover the efficiency of the small operator can be in excess of that of the huge unit. 1 have in mind that the law of diminishing returns, which has applied in business through centuries, still applies today. I deplore the persistent references to lack of efficiency because units are not of the biggest size. I believe in a unit which will give a good living and the ability to meet all commitments. We can have that sort of unit. Tn the past there were units which were not viably because of inability to extend them to meet a reasonable, modern requirement of greater turnover. There is no compulsion inherent in the legislation, it simply offers the facility to those who wish to act on it either to cease operations as dairy farmers or to extend operations so thai they will be satisfactory business propositions. 
In its essential features this plan ls in accord with the recommendations of the Australian Dairy Industry Council which, in October 1966, submitted proposals to the Government in connection with the renewal of the industry stabilisation plan for 5 years from 1st July 1967. The Dairy Industry Council recommended that, in addition to maintaining the existing measures of Government support for the industry, funds should be provided for distribution in conjunction with the States and grants should be made for the reconstruction of dairy farm units which were uneconomic because of their size. The Government accepted that proposition. I commend it for so doing. I should like to see that principle applied to other areas of rural production. In these proposals there is a lot of humanity and a lot of plain, common business sense. I have pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
1 ask the Minister for Works: What are the criteria determining provision of Commonwealth office complexes in capital cities? Do the criteria indicate Adelaide's early entitlement for such Commonwealth buildings as announced today for Melbourne and Sydney? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Bearing in mind the serious implications for our overseas trade arising from increased freight rates, could the Minister indicate to what extent the Government participates in discussions with shipping organisations in arriving at freight rates? Is competition between shipping organisations being fully exploited? 
Order! The Leader of the Opposition's time has expired. 
I wish to address a few words in support of this Bill which provides for the raising of loan money to the extent of $4.5m for war service land settlement requirements in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. I wish to speak in particular about South Australia's position in respect to war service land settlement. Of the $4.5m. $1,946,000 is allocated to South Australia. Of this, $490,000 is to bc used for developmental works, drainage of blocks and provision of further irrigation facilities in the Loxton and Cooltong irrigation areas. I express appreciation of the consideration given to the requirements of those 2 areas. The balance of the allocation to South Australia is to maintain the liquidity of settlers. In the main, the settlers began with very little capital of their own. lt is the category of settler who had small equity when originally taking up the land that is most beset with difficulties. Those who had little capital provision of their own in the first instance have, I note, through the years been unable to get out of a situation of rather compounding obligations. 
The money provided under the Bill is to assist those who, through no fault of their own but through difficulties of establishment in some instances, of wrong plantings in certain soils, of the low prices received for produce grown on these blocks, of the servicing of loans by interest and so on, have been facing difficulties. We cannot but have a very keen appreciation of the difficulties facing these settlers. I am pleased to say that in my representations to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  on these matters he has been very co-operative and willing to assist. In March I was accompanied by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  on a deputation to the Minister by the Upper Murray ExServicemen's Land Settlement Association In that deputation we pointed out the need for revaluation of the assets of a number of settlers whose financial situation was such that they were almost unable to continue in the industry. Revaluation of these blocks was agreed to, and at the present time a study is being made of the situation of various settlers with a view to so revaluing their blocks as to enable them to get back to a reasonably sound position and to see light ahead in regard to meeting their commitments fully in due time. 
We also raised another matter. As I speak of these 2 matters - revaluation and the other matter to which I will refer in a moment - I wish to say that Ministers in charge of the various departments very often are kicked in the pants but rarely are patted on the back for what they do. I wish to pay tribute to the Minister for Primary Industry for his spontaneity of acceptance of situations and, as I have said, his preparedness to help. The blocks of a number of settlers in the upper Murray irrigation areas of South Australia have been shown to be insufficient in size to enable the holders to make a reasonable living or to meet their commitments. The idea has been advanced that, if a settler desires to dispose of his holding, his neighbour, if he so desires and if he is also a war service land settlement settler, should be able to take over the assets of the person retiring from the industry. 
An agreement has now been reached with the South Australian Government to the effect that a war service land settlement settler shall be allowed to purchase the lease of a property of a fellow settler on the basis of the unmatured balance owing under first mortgage being transferred from the vendor to the purchaser. This is subject to certain conditions which are that this policy will not have retrospective application; that a purchaser must be deemed to be creditworthy; that a purchaser must have demonstrated such ability that he could be expected to handle the additional land efficiently; and that a settler is to be allowed to make only 1 purchase under these conditions. In respect of the conditions that the purchaser must bc deemed creditworthy and that he must have shown his ability to run the holding efficiently, the decision of the South Australian Minister of Lands is to be final. 
Herein we see a further application of the principle of helping a man in a given line of production who finds that because of the smallness of his holding he has an uneconomic unit. The principle that applies in the dairy industry, for instance, is now being applied to some extent to the usageof land for fruit growing and general irrigation farming by settlers such as those to whom I have referred. I commend the Minister very much on this action. It means that the purchaser takes over the block on a basis of long term repayment. 1 now wish to make reference to a matter which I believe is vital to the welfare of the fruit growing industries in South Australia which I have no doubt applies to other fruit growing areas in Australia. I refer to the ability of the canneries to handle the produce of the growers - I am referring here to deciduous fruits - as a part of the industry of fruit production. I regard the canning of fruit as part of the fruit growing process. In South Australia, where we have 2 major cannery organisations which are co-operatives and which are doing an excellent job in disposing of the produce of our deciduous fruit orchards, the canneries have persistent lack of liquidity problems in relation to capital needs for canning capacity and to make payments to the growers for their produce in reasonable time. 
I believe that in this field there is a very real need for money to be made available to the State Government for lending to the canneries to which 1 have referred. In South Australia we have a Loans to Producers Act which enables the State Government to make advances, via the State Bank of South Australia, to the canneries and similar interests concerned with rural produce. I understand that the Loans to Producers Act has been used to the full extent to which money can be made available by the Government via the Bank, and that there is still a need for greater financial assistance to enable the canneries to operate effectively and efficiently and to make payment for the fruit they process in reasonable time. I suggest that here is a very good and necessary opening for the application of section 96 of the Constitution by making special grants to a State to enable it to do for its rural producers those things on the financial side that the State in its own right cannot do. 
I have pleasure in supporting this Bill. I believe that the Government is doing an excellent work for the soldier settlers. But in my opinion a continuing and close watch has to be kept on he overall ability of the settler to meet his commitments within reason. In other words, I believe that there should be a definite reassessment of the financial position of the settlers generally, but particularly of those who are in dire financial difficulties through no fault of their own, withaview to making a firm and final determi nation as to what can be done, then, havingfound that out, finance and conditions should be applied in a way that will enable the settler either to emerge successfully or to be prepared to say: Despite all the assistance I receivedand all the consideration in the world, I am now prepared to admit thatI amnot of continuing'. I have pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
 The point of order is not upheld. 
In this legislation we are now debating there is a similar undertaking on the part of this Government. However, there would be no purpose in the undertaking being carried out. Section 109a was just another confidence trick. Although the Minister who now presents this Bill did not actually use those words that is in effect how he described the operation of that section and the late  Senator Cohen  and I held the same view. This is what has been happening with all of these enactments. Legislation is introduced and then a change is made and we think that everything will be all right and how well off we will be; we think there will be peace and justice and there will not be any abuse of the provisions. However, it is not long before we find that what was supposed to be used sparingly and what was supposed to be an amelioration provision, as  Senator Greenwood  put it, is not to be such a provision. It was nonsense when it was brought in. We pointed out the defects in it. It was a joke. I would like  Senator Greenwood  who is an expert in these matters to inform the Senate what good that amelioration provision did. All one had to do was to make application under 2 different sections and that provision was of no effect. 
There are many interruptions by way of interjection and I point out, as it has been pointed out before, that these interruptions are not conducive to easy speaking for honourable senators at such a late hour but I am doing my best under the circumstances. If all honourable senators had the national interest at heart I think that a matter such as this would receive their close attention. 
The Government brought in legislation in 1965  -  this very section 109a  -  and it said: This will solve the problem'. We said: 'It will not solve the problem, it is no use'. Events have proved that we were right. 
Government that the history of its actions have shown that it has no regard for the realities of industrial life. The Minister should be the last person, I would think, to disagree with what I am putting forward. This section was one of the most futile and stupid provisions ever introduced by the Government. The enactment as it was drafted was calculated to produce industrial unrest, and it did. The enactment as it will be left, if this Bill passes through the Senate, is again calculated to produce industrial unrest. Why does the Government not listen to what is being put forward by the trade union movement and endeavour to succeed in achieving a system which will avoid this unrest. The avoidance of disruption in industrial affairs is far too important to be left to this playing of politics and listening to the Metal Trades Employers' Association, which is, 1 suppose, the organisation which has been guilty of the most abuse of the powers given under the Act by unnecessarily instituting court actions. It is suggested that this measure has been introduced at the instance of the metal trades employers. It is not satisfactory, and if there is to be industrial dislocation it will affect everyone, not only those on the bottom of the economic scale but everyone else in the community. I think the Government is foolish to be going ahead with this legislation in its present form. 1 think it is making a great mistake and that in the interests of this nation it would be better if this legislation were not passed in this form. This clause we are dealing with is proof that the Government has been introducing legislation which is not satisfactory and not calculated to achieve the objective of industrial peace. The whole code which the Government is now putting forward is a continuation of that process. [Quorum formed.] 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Bearing in mind the urgent commercial need for Adelaide to be connected with the IndianPacific standard gauge railway system, can the Minister advise the Senate, or obtain a report, as to the stage arrived at in the negotiations between the Commonwealth and the South Australian Government for the standardisation of the Adelaide to Port Pirie railway link? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Has an appraisal been made of the detrimental effects on our dairy, meat, dried and canned fruits and other primary industries, in the event of United Kingdom entry to the European Economic Community. 
What steps are being taken to safeguard our rural export interests in the United Kingdom in such circumstances. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Minister for Trade and Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
It is not possible to assess accurately the implications that United Kingdom membership of the European Economic Community will have for Australia's primary industries until the terms of Britain's entry are known. The negotiations on the United Kingdom's application tojoin the E.E.C. are due to begin on June 30th. 
Obviously, the answer to this question was formed prior to that date. 
The Minister for Trade and Industry has recently left for Europe - and of course he has now returned - to personally assess the situation and to bring the position in relation to Australia's export interests to the attention of the British Government and to the authorities of the European Economic Community. 
To some extent events have caught up with the question and answer hut. nevertheless. I have no doubt that the honourable senator has read with considerable interest the reports of what the Minister for Trade and Industry said on his return. 
I direct a question to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Has a decision yet been made as to a venue in Canberra for the permanent display of the Byrne Kingsford-Smith memorial which was presented to the Commonwealth and displayed in King's Hall earlier this year? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in bis capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer. By way of preface I refer to the massive ground swell of alarm and apprehension which is sweeping the grape growing and winemaking industries at the imposition of the excise charge on table wines. Is the Minister aware that in regard to the last vintage in South Australia certain varieties of grapes were hard to dispose of to the wineries because of over-supply, the first time in 6 years that this condition had prevailed? Inthe event of aggravation of this condition at the next vintage or early evidence of decreased wine sales, will the Government give immediate consideration to removing the excise charge? For the time being will consideration be given to allowing the wine making industry extended credit, say for 60 or 90 days, to pay the excise charges which have been imposed on the industry? 

 Senator 
 Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe answer  to  the first part  of  the honourable senators question  is to  be found  in  the Budget Speech. The Treasurer, when making the Speech, pointed out that the consumption  of  wine  in  Australia had risen dramatically from year to year and in the light of this trend and the evident profitability of wine production and the heavy taxation levied on other forms  of  alcoholic beverage the Government has decided that a moderate excise duty of 50c per gallon should be placed on locally produced grape wine and that there should be a corresponding increase on imported wine. This is a decision  of  the Government. It is a part of the Budget and we have to accept it as such. We should look at it not in isolation but as part of the revenue raising processes of the Budget. 
The honourable senator then asked that the industry be given time to pay the charge. Frankly, I do not understand his reason for asking that. When the wine comes out of bond the duty will be paid by the retailer who gets it. He in turn will pass the extra cost on to the consumer. I do not know where the time to pay really conies into it.  Senator Young  tries to help by suggesting, by interjection, 30 days grace between when the excise becomes due and when it is recovered from the retailer through the consumer. It is suggested that the growers should be given assistance. I would be amazed by any suggestion that the wine industry is in such a state that it needs special financial assistance to cover the extra excise of 50c a gallon. This is somethingI cannot comprehend. I think it would be unique in procedures of budgeting and finance to grant this period to pay and I cannot imagine it being a matter that could be considered favourably. I think the wine industry has the capacity to make its own financial arrangements in this  matter  as it does with other things. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the decision of Turkey to devalue her currency? As Turkey is one of Australia's keenest competitors in overseas dried fruits markets, 1 ask whether an evaluation has been made of the possible detrimental effects on our dried fruit exports arising from Turkey's action. If necessary, will the Government take such monetary compensatory action in favour of our dried fruits producers as will enable them to retain markets in the face of Turkey's new currency advantage? 
1 direct a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Treasurer. In view of the heavy incidence of increased cost to wine makers arising from commodity control, which control is a corollary of the collection of the excise charge of 50c per gallon on table wines and is estimated by an old established wine making organisation in the Barossa Valley to cost a further 30c per gallon, will urgent consideration be given to varying the mechanics of collecting the 50c charge so that it will be exacted not in the form of excise but in the form of a sales tax payable on invoicing wines ex cellar door? 
Firstly, commodity control is a modern device that has been introduced now into almost all industries where excise is imposed. It has modernised the tortuous old system whereby it was necessary, for instance, to keep an officer at an oil refinery to use a dipstick every now and again to find out how much of a commodity had been taken out of bond so that the excise could be assessed. The same system applied in wineries. A Public Service officer more or less lived at the vineyard with no other purpose in life than to use a dipstick every day, or every so often, to measure the amount drawn out of bond. 
This archaic system went on for years and years until, during the period when  Sir Denham  Henty was Minister for Customs and Excise, commodity control was introduced into the petroleum industry. Subsequently during my time as Minister for Customs and Excise it was introduced info other industries. It is a modern and sensible system. It is based on the concept that excise is paid in accordance with the bookkeeping. lt is based on the books of the companies concerned which are, of course, subject to snap investigations. In the normal course of events the system involves the companies in certain expense which would otherwise be a charge on revenue - on the taxpayers. That is, broadly, what commodity control means. The honourable senator suggested that we should vary this principle of commodity control for the wine industry, having regard to the institution of excise on Australian wine. He suggested that the principle should be modified in some way to mitigate the effect of an excise of 50c per gallon. J will refer that suggestion to the Minister for Customs and Excise for his consideration. I have some reservations about the suggestion. A constitutional issue would be involved in the gathering of the revenue. 
As a sales tax? 
I do not know whether it could be done as a sales tax. That takes the matter into another field altogether. That takes the matter out of the excise field and into the taxation field. That would be a matter of Government policy and of Government consideration as to whether the suggestion was merited and whether it was constitutionally possible. However, we will have a look at the suggestion and make a report to the Senate in due course. 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that at the week-end the Soviet Union established a military garrison at the former British crown colony of Socotra at the mouth of the Red Sea? If so, with Russian fleet facilities in the Andaman Islands and in Mauritius, does the Government see a rising threat to Our vital trade sea lanes in the Indian Ocean arising from the Russian presence? Will this lead to an acceleration of our activities in defence measures so far as they concern the Indian Ocean trade routes? 
That is so. 
No. I arn concerned at the situation. 
Yes. If overseas outlets were available for our wine, containment of present plantings could be anticipated, lt is anticipated that within 5 years not less than 500,000 tons of grapes will be available annually for processing. Turkey, our greatest competitor on overseas markets for dried fruits and particularly for vine fruits has devalued its currency. Advantages for Turkey arising from that move may detrimentally affect our sales of dried fruit products. Further, the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community could be a blow to an avenue of exodus for our surplus dual purpose grapes. It is clear that a not particularly happy situation is facing the grape growing industry and the wine making industry in Australia. About 6000 people are dependent in Australia on grape growing for their livelihood. In the main these people have mixed holdings, on which fruit trees and vines are grown. Honourable senators will appreciate that in many areas the products of the vines have kept producers going through a difficult period. 
It certainly is. The introduction of excise of 50c a gallon on table wines could lead to a decreased demand for wines. 
Yes. This being so, repercussions could be felt by the industry which has hitherto been ruggedly independent. It is one rural industry which has not required or sought assistance from the Government. I am perturbed at the prospects of this very important industry. It has been nurtured and advanced through the assistance of family organisations, particularly in South Australia. There is a very proud history of co-operation between winemakers and grape growers. Because of a temporary upsurge of demand for wine, plantings have been increased to a point which could mean real difficulties in the near future. The incidence of the excise must be watched very closely by the Government to study its effects on local sales of wine and on the ability of growers to sell their perishable products at vintage time. 
I repeat that the grape growing industry is the only major primary industry which has not in recent years approached the Government for a subsidy or price support. The wheat, wool, dairy and sugar industries have gone to the Government in a procession, unfortunately, and the problems of the canned fruit industry through a glut of citrus fruits and apples and pears are constantly brought to the notice of the Government in Canberra. It must be appreciated that an industry which has thus far stood on its own feet should not in any way be so detrimentally affected as to be unable to sustain itself because of factors beyond its control, including the imposition of excise duty. 
That is another matter. I wish to deal now with the imposition of the excise duty without regard to the quality of wines. Excise, as distinct from sales tax adds to the prime cost of the product, and as such requires financing from the producer through to the retailer and is taxed again for State liquor taxes. Therefore, the 50c per gallon becomes 13c per bottle to the consumer. In practical terms a bottle of wine at $4 increases by 13c, that is, an increase of 3.25 per cent. On a bottle of wine which costs 75c the increase of 1 3c represents an increase of 17.4 per cent. A flagon of wine at $1 .25 increases by 39c to $1.64. namely 31 per cent. It is this inequitable incidence of increase which could cause great difficulty to the industry. 1 believe that a sales tax, being a tax al end product and based on the ad valorem principle, would have been better for the industry than an overall increase which has the same application to a bottle or a flagon of wine of low cost and to a bottle of the best champagne. The Government should for the present allow vignerons to pay the lax over a period of normal commercial term credit. 
One could quote many figures relating to this matter. It would be tedious to do so but they would show explicitly what lies ahead. Unless there is an awareness of the problem and a preparedness to take action to remove the charge there could be adverse effects on the whole industry from grower to wine maker. If there is any obvious decline in wine sales or if any difficulty arises at next vintage for the placement of wines by growers, I hope that the Government will consider immediately lifting the proposed impost. 
I understand that that is so. 
lt certainly requires more capital on the part of all vignerons, but in the case of the small wine maker it has a special effect. 1 am very happy with the general attitude of the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  to this matter. He is considerate of the position of the wine maker, the grape grower and the small man who will experience difficulty in finding funds to pay the excise under the system which is to be applied. 
 I believe that he will assist by understanding the financial considerations which could arise for the small operator. That would be of real benefit to them. 
 I understand that it could be only in the form of extended payments. I think that ordinary commercial term credit for the payment of the tax would be in itself of major assistance to the wine making industry. 
 That is right. It would run through the gamut of production. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative in this place of the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has his attention been directed to the plea made to the British Prime Minister by representatives of our fruit canning industry for safeguards for Australian canned fruits exports to the United Kingdom in the negotiations now under way for Britain's entry into the European Common 
Market? Is it a fact that the United Kingdom currently purchases canned fruits from us to the value of stg 14m or $A30m a year, and that the loss of this market would be disastrous for our canned fruits industry? Is it a fact that European Common Market tariffs and duties would lift United Kingdom retail prices for Commonwealth canned fruits by 50 per cent, rendering our produce totally uncompetitive with European duty free canned fruits? Will the Government do all in its power to support the fruit canning interests in their efforts for removal of European Common Market tariffs against third countries as a reasonable compensation for the loss of present British preferences? 
As to the third part of the question, the effect on retail prices of the loss of preference, and the imposition of the present Common Market duty of about 25 per cent and other charges, is a matter of judgment. There c;in be no doubt, however, that changes such as these must have very serious consequences in terms of either lost sales or reduced return or both. Finally, the Minister for Trade and Industry has returned only recently, as we know, from important talks in London and Brussels at which he emphasised the nature of the problem facing the canned fruits industry and indeed many other rural industries. The Senate may be assured that the Government will continue to press for reasonable terms of access to an enlarged Common Market, both directly and in the context of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that the Soviet Union has established a military garrison at the former British Crown Colony of Socotra, at the mouth of the Red Sea. If so, and in view of Russian fleet facilities in the Andaman Islands and Mauritius, does the Government see a rising threat to Australia's vital trade sea-lanes in the Indian Ocean, arising from the Russian actions. 
Will this threat lead to an acceleration of Australian defence measures, so far as they concern the Indian Ocean trade routes. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThe Acting Minister for External Affairs has furnished the following reply: 
Over the past 2 years or so, groups of USSR naval ships, including combat vessels, have visited the Indian Ocean area. These developments have introduced for the first time an almost continuous USSR naval presence in the area. This activity must be seen against the general background of the USSR's policies in the Middle East and Asia and its evident desire to extend its influence as a world power. With regard to the specific case of Socotra, the Government is aware that a Soviet Alligator class LST recently passed through the Straits of Malacca heading for the Indian Ocean. Soviet LSTs have previously called at Port Sudan (Sudan), Aden (People's Republic of South Yemen) and Berbera (Somalia) which are all near the mouth of the Red Sea. The Government has no information to. confirm Press reports that the USSR intends to establish a military garrison on the island of Socotra. Similarly, the Government has no knowledge of any Soviet fleet facilities in Mauritius or the Andaman Islands though Soviet fishing vessels are known to use the harbour of Port Louis in Mauritius. 
The views of the Australian Government remain as expressed to the House in  Mr McMahon's  statement on19th March 1970 and in the statement of the Minister for Defence on 1 0th March 1970. 
I desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate concerning the excise which was imposed on wine in the Budget. Will the Government give urgent consideration to the abolition of the excise in the event of a marked decrease in the demand on the local market for table wines or in the event of grape growers running into difficulties in disposing of their next vintage? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is not normal at question time for Ministers to answer questions relating to matters of policy. It would be clearly a matter of policy if the Government having put an excise on a product, decided to take it. off because of certain circumstances, lt would be rather unique in revenue raising if a government were to consider removing an excise on wine before being able to gauge the effect of it. The honourable senator's question implies that consideration should be given to taking off the excise if there is a decrease in the demand. I would respond by saying that it is necessary to look at any impost, whether it be customs excise or sales tax, according to its impact over a period of time. I would have great reservations about any suggestion that the imposition of an excise duty on wine will have an effect upon the industry which will not be absorbed by the natural growth of interest in the imbibing of our own Australian wines. I have no fear of the consequences of the imposition of this excise. 1 do not think the Government is at this point of time considering whether to take off the excise. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. I ask: As the donor of university scholarships, has the Commonwealth Government the power to withdraw them in the event of recipients being found guilty of breaking laws or acting in ways not conducive to the order! v conduct of university affairs? ls it a fact that academic freedom has, in some instances, become academic licence in our universities, with some members of the university staffs overstepping their basic function of teaching by taking part in political activity and, in the process, inciting students to disregard constitutional authority? Who has the authority to discipline or dismiss such irresponsible staff members? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation been drawn to the suggestions made in Sydney by Alderman Leo Port, a Sydney City Council alderman and an engineer, in regard to aircraft design to make future aircraft hijack-proof? If so, is it a fact that Alderman Port advocates that aircraft should be divided into 2 isolated compartments - one for the crew and the other for passengers and each with its own entrance - and that the 2 sections should be separated by an unpressurised area or a solid bulkhead? Does the Minister agree with the comment on these proposals made by  Dr A.  E. Russell, the British  Chairman  of the Anglo-French Concord Commitee of Directors, to the effect that the proposals are worthy of consideration and investigation by the aircraft industry? Will the Minister have his Department investigate the merit of the proposals? 
 Mr President,  I desire to make a personal explanation. I wish to refute absolutely  Senator Keeffe's  suggestion that there was collusion in respect of my question. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral in this chamber. Is the officer in charge of the Commonwealth Police Force subject to the Executive in respect of tenure of office? Is the Minister aware that in South Australia the Commissioner of Police cannot be removed from office without the concurrence of both Houses of Parliament? Is it a fact that under this system the laws of the State may be interpreted and enforced without political pressure or bias? Is not this system the most desirable for the unbiassed enforcement of law and order? If this system does not apply to the Commonwealth Police Force will steps be taken to introduce it? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the national character of the Eyre Highway, the urgent need for the bitumenising of the remaining unsealed section in South Australia and the stated inability of the South Australian Government to finance that work, will the Minister ask his colleague to consider providing a special grant to South Australia under the Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement to enable the work to proceed? 
1 desire to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Treasurer in this chamber. Is it a fact that the financial assistance which is provided by the Commonwealth to the States for drought relief is provided under a blanket arrangement whereby an initial outlay of SI. 5m on relief must be made by a Stale before Commonwealth funds are made available to it? As this presents an anomalous situation insofar as no credence is given to the varying economic and financial capacities of the various States, will consideration be given to reviewing the minimum cut-in point for Federal aid to South Australia in its present drought problems? 
Basically as we all know - and the Government has said so many times in this place - the first ingredient in this problem is for representations to be made in relation to what is considered to be a situation which is beyond the capacity or the reasonable ability of a State to meet in terms of drought, disaster or something of that nature. I have no doubt that in that context there is a start line. I think the more appropriate thing to do is to have a close examination made of the point of view expressed by the honourable senator, f will have his question referred to the Treasurer. lt must always be understood thai intervention by the Commonwealth starts at the level of representations by the Premier of a State to the Prime Minister. The intervention is on the basis- that there is a situation of disaster, drought, storm or other calamity which is in the nature of a national disaster and that it is beyond the capacity of the State concerned to meet it through its normal channels and normal sovereignty. The honourable dilator will understand that there must be some start J inc. otherwise the Commonwealth could be called upon from time to time to meet circumstances which the State could meet in the normal course of its responsibilities. That is the reason for it. As to the particularity of South Australia, I will have the honourable senator's question referred to the Treasurer for a reply. 
 I address a question to the Leader of the Government who represents the Minister for Trade and Industry in this place. Is the Minister aware that a Western Australian company which developed a revolutionary pneumatic shearing handpiece was denied a grant under the provisions of the federal industries research and development grants scheme on the specific ground that the research and development programme had not been directed by a person with a university degree or diploma? As technical advancement in many Australian industries has not been confined to the work of academically qualified persons, will steps be taken to remove this undesirable anomaly which denies practical and experienced technicians and engineers the benefits of federal research grants? 
I am not aware of the circumstances to which the honourable senator is drawing our attention but I shall seek information from the Minister for Trade and Industry. I hope to be in a position at an early date to provide the honourable senator with a reply to this question. It is true, as he says, that special grants are provided, but I do not know what conditions are specified in relation to the grants! [ gather from his question - I want to be sure of this - that he is saying in categorical terms that the grant was not approved for the reason that he mentioned. 
Yes. 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. 1 ask: What is the present situation in respect of the expressed desire of certain commercial apiarists for a poll of beekeepers to ascertain their views concerning the continued operation or reorganisation of the presently constituted Australian Honey Board? 
The Bill before us provides for increased duties on manufactured tobacco products and certain refined petroleum products, and the imposition for the first time of duties on grape wine. The Bill also includes an amendment to the Act to remove excise duties previously applied to spirits used to fortify wines. The amendments included in this Bill have been operative since 19th August. They give effect to recent Budget provisions in respect of excise duties. 1 will address my remarks to the imposition of duty of 50c on each gallon of wine sold in Australia since 1 9th August. The history of the grape growing and wine making industries is most interesting and has been marked with great vicissitudes through the years. Only recently have the grape growing and processing industries achieved a buoyant condition. 
I recall vividly 5 years ago when the grape growers could not dispose of their product because of a heavy supply of processed wine and the inability of the processors to take the vintage of that year. In 1965 in South Australia special pools were set up to take in grapes and process them into brandy. When the brandy spirit was finally disposed of the growers received their payments for the grapes supplied. That is why I am deeply perturbed at the present prospect of adverse effects on the grape growing and wine making industries arising from the introduction of an excise duty on Australian wine. 
The sensitivity of wine sales is well established. Originally the greater consumption of wines, particularly Australian table wines, came about when the cost of a bottle of table wine compared most favourably with the price of a couple of bottles of other beverages, such as beer. It is necessary to maintain a price level for our table wines which will attract a ready market for them. In the process the consumption of wine is encouraged in a way which is beneficial for the whole com munity. I refer to the taking of table wines with meals. 
The difficulties to which I have referred in the disposal of the vintage in 1965, and also in 1963, could well recur; that is if there should be a reduction in home consumption of wine, combined with the increased plantings of recent years. There is inherent in that situation a dangerous condition wherein the traditional growers of grapes - the men who have their own vineyards - could be in difficulties. In 1965, in the difficulties then experienced, an authority comprising representatives of the winemaking and grape growing industries was operating in South Australia, lt was chaired by the Prices Commissioner of South Australia. Its purpose was to work out prices for grapes which would be fair to the processor and to the grower. All aspects of the industry were taken into account and the prices for grapes were varied. I recall vividly that at that time . it was most difficult to obtain better prices for grapes. An increase of only a few dollars a ton could be agreed upon as between grower and winemaker because of the economic position of the industry at that time. 
Duty of 50c- a gallon based on a wine crush of 140 gallons a lon of grapes equals $70 per ton on the raw material. This is more than the average price received by growers for their product at present. The present price is between $60 and $65 a ton, as an average of all varieties. The sensitivity of demand based on price becomes very important, bearing in mind the difficulties experienced by the industry a few years ago and the inability of the industry at that time to gain any substantial increases in returns to the grower. Now, at one fell swoop the cost of the raw material of the winemaker is to be doubled. The grape grower in his own right - that is, a man who is not a vigneron - is most concerned about the effects of the new duty on his ability to place his product in the next year or two. 
The sales of wine in Australia are predominantly of the bread and butter types, that is, the lower priced wines which sell in flagons. They are the wines most heavily hit by the new duty. 
That is the trouble. At the present flat rate of 50c a gallon no regard is had to the varying price levels or the varying qualities of wine. A flagon of riesling or light red type wine, which formerly could be purchased for $1, now costs $1.45. That is a very steep increase in the price. 
Yes. In the case of the higher priced wine an increase of 8c a bottle is not very great in relation to the price. But 1 emphasise the incidence of cost on the best selling types of wine which, because of the increased price, may diminish in demand, in which case the fears to which I have referred will materialise. I am very happy to note that the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said when winding up the debate on this measure in another place a few days ago:  1 have given an assurance on behalf of the Government that it will look at the effects of this new tax as a responsible government should look at all new taxes. 
I take great solace in those words and the realisation that should the imposition of a tax of 50c per gallon lead to the situation to which 1 have referred the Minister is prepared to consider this tax with a view to its removal. I feel that from now on we must watch very carefully the trend in sales of wine on the home market. If it should be found that there is a serious decline in demand, bearing in mind the heavily increased plantings that have gone on, it would be disastrous if great consideration were not given to the removal of this tax if it were found necessary because of it to curtail planting. The wine industry generally has shown a great degree of responsibility in directing its own affairs in a ruggedly individualistic self-supporting way. 
I believe that the grape-growing and winemaking industry is one of the very few which have not sought or received from the Government assistance of some kind or another. In the fruit growing industry generally many producers have a variety of interests. In addition to their vineyards they have citrus trees also. In recent years the citrus trees, which have formed a great part of their interest, has kept these properties alive. I would regard it as a great pity if an industry which has gone ahead well during the last 4 or 5 years and which seemingly has very bright prospects for the future should find itself faced with some impediment to the continued buoyancy of the industry. 
lt will. But provided that there is an opening for their grapes at the prices which now exist there will be every prospect of their being able to carry on with their properties, even though, as the honourable senator has suggested, the incomes now being received from those properties are not very high. I fully appreciate the need of a government to raise revenue wherever there is an opportunity to do so to enable it to do those things which are continually being demanded or expected of it. But in the process of taxing to raise revenue I hope that consideration will always be given to the continued viability of an industry or the interests of persons involved in industry. Again I refer to the statement by  Mr Chipp  that consideration will be given to this particular industry in the event of the incidence of this new tax having a proven adverse effect upon it. I support the Bill as a budgetary measure. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport been directed to an article in Monday's Adelaide 'Advertiser' which claimed that the South Australian Government was ready to share with the Commonwealth Government the cost of sealing the remaining stretch of the Eyre Highway to the Western Australian border? Would consideration be given by the Commonwealth Government, through the Minister's colleague, to a sharing of cost arrangement with South Australia on the basis of an outlay of one-third by the South Australian Government and twothirds by the Commonwealth Government? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development in a position to advise the Senate of the outcome of the talks held in Sydney last week by the Minister for National Development,  Mr Swartz,  with the New South Wales Minister for Conservation,  Mr Beale,  the Victorian Minister of Water Supply,  Mr Smith  and the South Australian 

 Deputy Premier,  Mr Corcoran,  about the future of the Dartmouth and Chowilla dams projects. 
1 ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question which concerns light aircraft safety. In view of the excellent safety record of all light aircraft charter organisations and the unfair and undesirable criticism being attracted to light aircraft generally because of the high incidence of accidents this year to planes being flown by private pilots, can the Minister say whether consideration is being given to requiring a higher training standard for private pilots? Can the Minister indicate any particular cause which inquiries have revealed to be common to the majority of owner-pilot mishaps? 
In speaking to the Loan (Housing) Bill 1970  Senator Cavanagh  has painted a very dismal picture of the South Australian Housing Trust. He has used poor colours in the picture he has portrayed to us. From my experience I cannot agree with him in respect to his depiction of this excellent authority in South Australia. For 36 years it has been the basis of supplying housing in the metropolitan area and in the country in South Australia. I wish to make a few references to the activities of the Housing Trust in South Australia. Before doing so I would like to refer to the importance of the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement over the past years. On the completion of the current 5-year period the States will have been provided by agreement in Commonwealth borrowings with no less than $644m. This is a huge amount of money to be provided. Without it we would not have the number of houses nor the standard of housing that we have throughout Australia. Of this $644m provided in the current quinquennium, $426m will have been used by State housing authorities. 
The attraction of the moneys provided by Commonwealth borrowings for housing at 1 per cent below long term bond rate over a period of 53 years has given the States an incentive to seek allocations to the maximum of their budgeting capacity, bearing in mind the many and diverse interests and requirements of government to provide the needs which the community requires through the whole gamut of provisions. In this division of the S 142.5m sought to be raised, South Australia will receive just under 17 per cent at $24tn. This figure is indicative of the needs for housing in South Australia. I understand it is a higher figure than has been sought in recent years. To a degree there has been a lull in house erection in Adelaide. But this is to be expected after a period of rapid growth in housing provisions over a long period. Ups and downs can be expected and this has occurred. Pardon me,  Sir, for  speaking only in respect of my State in this matter but as I said before I am rather incensed at criticism of an authority which has been remarkable in my State through the whole of its existence which is over 36 years. 
lt certainly has. In my years as a representative in the House of Assembly I have known certain areas where homes were built on adverse types of soil. Experience had to be obtained in building homes on certain soil types. The Bay of Biscay type soil has given us headaches. But through the years there have been improvements in techniques by seeking to overcome a major disability. In the Adelaide area we can only move south or north. We cannot move to the west because we would be out in the water and we cannot have heavy building programmes to the east because of the Adelaide Hills. So we can only move south and north in the metropolitan area which is the venue for our building programme and the provision of homes. In the northeast suburbs of Adelaide - I refer to what is now the Tea Tree Gully, Modbury, Highbury districts - we had trouble with the Bay of Biscay type soil to which reference has been made by  Senator Cavanagh.  When it was found that adverse effects were coming to homes through ground movement I was impressed by the consideration given either to the home owner or the person who was renting the home. In no instance did I find lack of co-operation in respect of this adverse condition. 
To the north of Adelaide our satellite area of Elizabeth and Salisbury I think constitutes the greatest tribute to a housing authority, possibly in Australia. Elizabeth is a beautiful city in itself. 
I have been in many of them. With its diversity in architecture, in every respect it is a city of which our State is proud. I am sure of that. The residents of South Australia, in noting the activities of the authority in providing homes., give credit to the Housing Trust. As honourable senators know I believe in free enterprise. 
Debate interrupted. 
 I present from 254 citizens crf the State of South Australia the following petition: 
To the. Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. Thi Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral star dards in the Australian comunity of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books,, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes: 
That their concern arises partly from the fac! that historians such as  i.  D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of interna! moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings oi Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, beside.being 'part and parcel of the law of the land (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' Page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of iti? Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Mel bourne Herald 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will eve pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the report from Estimates Committee C. together with the minutes of the proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - The honourable senator will have an opportunity to speak later. 
1 wish to join with my honourable colleagues,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator Davidson,  in expressing appreciation of the efforts made by the Parliamentary Reporting Staff and the staff of the Government Printing Office to produce a daily Hansard report of the proceedings of the Committee. This has been a very fine effort, especially as new procedures involving the installation of direct- tape recording lines from Committee rooms to the Printing Office had to be organised. I also make particular reference to the effective response which Estimates Committee C received to questions asked of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  and the officers of the relative departments who appeared before it. 
I have never heard a more horrible diatribe than that which we have experienced in the last half hour. I want to express my utter disgust that a member of this chamber should so demean himself as to use an unfortunate person as the vehicle for an attack on highly honourable people. I know all the people to whom  Senator Cavanagh  has referred. I am sure he hopes in the process to gain some cheap political advantage.  Senator Cavanagh  shows a horribly warped attitude to public office in his method of assisting people.  Mr President,  I have met  Mr Ward  McNally. I have an admiration for that man and I have done more for him - not in connection with the particular matter referred to this evening but in others - than  Senator Cavanagh  obviously has ever tried to do. It hurts me deeply,  Sir, to  think that in this august chamber we should hear' that which has this night fallen from the lips from  Senator Cavanagh.  I completely disown association with that sort of attitude in the senior House of Parliament in Australia. I deplore it deeply. That is all I wish to say about this matter. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Briefly, I should like to refer to the matter raised by  Senator Cavanagh  a few moments ago when I was temporarily absent from the chamber. He referred to the financial disability being suffered by the Murray Bridge Soldiers Memorial Hospital in respect of caring for aged people and pensioners in that hospital. I wish to endorse what he said in respect of this disability and to join with him in seeking the Minister's consideration of the problem. 
 Ls the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of extreme financial embarrassment being experienced by some rural producers who are faced with payment of probate duties assessed on land and assets when the value of those was much higher than now applies and when rural industry was in a more buoyant financial condition? In cases of such hardship, which could go to the extent of enforced liquidation of old established rural holdings, will consideration be given to allowing a moratorium - using the word in the correct sense- or payment over a period of years, in respect of the probate duty? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONAs the honourable senator will recall, the estate duty law was debated in this chamber and amended comparatively recently. It was to allow relief specifically to primary production estates by increasing the exemption limit and allowing to rural estates a rebate of that proportion of the duty otherwise payable. As I recall the situation, we had quite a lengthy debate on the subject. There were further relaxations which have general application. The provision of the law which required lodgment  of  securities before an extension  of  time could be granted to pay estate duty without penalty has been repealed. Moreover, another provision in the law which imposed an upper limit of 2 years for such extension has been removed. There is little doubt that these measures will be  of  assistance in regard to many estates  of  primary producers where liquidity problems are such that the duty assessed cannot be paid by the date on which it is due. 
Does the Minister for Civil Aviation think that sufficient credence is being given to map reading, that vitally important part of light aircraft pilot training? Is too much reliance being placed on training on navigational aids and insufficient on map reading? 
Will the honourable senator please state the item to which he is referring? 
The appropriation under subdivision 1 has been increased this year by about $700,000. Under subdivision 2 there is also an increased appropriation for this year of about $100,000. There is an increased appropriation for the repatriation and deportation of migrants. Is it anticipated that the demand in this section of activity will be greater this year than it was last year? 
Again there is an increase in the appropriation for other services under subdivision 3. For this year the increase is about $300,000. Under the heading 'Administrative' in Division 330 we find that subdivision 4 relates to embarkation and passage costs. Item 01 which is United KingdomAustralia Assisted Passage Agreement - Passage and associated costs, and item 02 which is Special Passage Assistance Programme - Passage and associated costs show a reduction in the amount appropriated for 1970-71 when compared with the appropriation and expenditure last financial year. 
Item 03 is concerned with Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration - Passage and associated costs for refugee migration. Item 04 deals with Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration - Contribution to operational budget excluding passage costs. Again, the appropriation for 1970-71 represents a considerable reduction on the appropriation and expenditure for 1969-70. In the case of item 04, the amount falls from an actual expenditure last financial year of $752,064 to an appropriation this financial year of $454,000. 
Item 05 provides for the Movements of migrations upon disembarkation and item 06 relating to Reimbursement of passage assistance repaid by migrants on temporary departure from Australia show, in the first example, a slight reduction and in the second case a slight increase over actual expenditure last year. But every item associated with the passage of migrants to Australia has been reduced in the appropriations for this financial year. Every item related to the administration concerned with and assistance to migrants leaving Australia shows an increase, this financial year. 
Subdivision 5 of Division 330 relates to Migrant Education Services, The actual expenditure last financial year was $1,332,690. The amount appropriated this year has increased to $4m. I repeat my point: Every item associated with migration to Australia shows an anticipated reduction in expenditure for the coming year. Do the appropriations in respect of these items reflect the thinking of the Government that there will be a reduction in the number of migrants coming to Australia from the United Kingdom this year? Do the appropriations reflect also a more costly effort in both the administration sphere and the advertising sphere for the purpose of training migrants? I ask the Minister to comment on this aspect of the appropriations. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) (8.32) -  Senator Mulvihill  asked me about work permits. I have to inform the honourable senator that work permits are wholly within the control of the British Government. The honourable senator asked me a question also concerning Division 330, sub-division 4 concerning Embarkation and Passage costs. The honourable senator pointed out that the appropriation for item 01 - United Kingdom-Australia Assisted Passage Agreement - Passage and associated costs - is $20,221,000 as compared with an actual expenditure last financial year of $23,521,61.5. The United Kingdom-Australia Assisted Passage Agreement - Passage and associated costs - item relates to assisted passages under the United Kingdom-Australia Assisted Passage Agreement and the associated costs involved for passages of assistant welfare and information officers and official chaplains on ships. X-ray examination, movement to port of embarkation and travel agents' fees. Also included is the cost of equipping initially and establishing child migrants arriving in Australia and proceeding to approved institutions for care and maintenance. Migrants of 19 years and over pay $St: 10 towards the cost of their passages whilst persons under 19 years travel free. In addition, the Government of the United Kingdom contributes $Stg150,000 per annum. These receipts are credited to revenue. Item 01 provides for a programme of 60,000 British migrants for 1.970-71 compared with approximately 68,200 paid for in 1969-70. 
The honourable senator spoke next about item 02 which deals with the Special Passage Assistance Programme. In relation to this the estimate for 1970-71 is $7,181,000. The provision has been made under the special passage assistance programme for assistance to applicants from Ireland, the United States and continental Europe who are not eligible to apply for passage assistance under any existing migration agreement or arrangements. Migrants 19 years of age and over are required to pay $25 towards passage costs. Those under 1.9 years make no contribution. The balance of passage costs is met by the Commonwealth. Provision has been made for travel agents' fees. A programme of 21,400 has been provided for in 1970-71, compared with the total of approximately 22,700 paid for in 1969-70. 
The honourable senator referred also to the Inter-governmental Committee for European Migration and passage and associated costs for refugee migration. Under this item the estimate for 1970-71 is $3,047,000, compared with last year's expenditure of $4,049,475. Expenditure under this item covers passage assistance for refugee migrants to be moved to Australia by the Inter-governmental Committee for European Migration. A programme of 10,000 refugee migrants has been provided for in 1970-71, compared with approximately 15,000 paid for in 1969-70. The smaller provision in 1970-71 reflects a decrease in the number of Yugoslavs moved from Austria by the ICEM as refugees. With the expected operation of the Assisted Passage Agreement with Yugoslavia in 1970-71, many Yugoslavs will be moved by the Australian Government from Yugoslavia directly. Provision for these movements has been made under Division 330. 
Still referring to the Inter-governmental Committee for European Migration, the honourable senator then dealt with the contribution to operational budgeting excluding passage costs. This year the estimate for that is $454,000. ICEM comprises 31 member governments, including Australia, and has operated since 1952 to facilitate the movement of European migrants to countries offering opportunities for permanent re-settlement. The assistance given to member governments mainly comprises the arrangement of transport, financial aid and the provision of technical services. The proposed expenditure of $454,000 includes payments for pre-visa and post-visa services, language training, pre-embarkation training of single women, training of national officials, and contribution for voluntary agency movements of $90 a migrant. The decrease in 1970-71 is the net result of a smaller provision for pre-visa and post-visa services, training of national officials, women's training courses and voluntary agency movements and increased requirements for payments for language training programmes and language supervisors' salaries. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that productivity and productivity alone is the major factor in determining what increases in wage rates and decreases in working hours are possible if real value is to be retained in the worker's pay packet and a competitive position maintained in our overseas trade? 
Before the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  replies, may I ask a question? On the subject of the allocation of funds for the public works programme in South Australia, Estimates Committee C was told that $17m or 5.5 per cent of the total allocation had been appropriated in this respect. I seek clarification from the Minister as to whether this money or this percentage has as a component of its total, any expenditure on defence activities in South Australia such as the Woomera establishment? 
The question is 'That the motion be agreed to'. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMANThat the question be now put.  Senator Murphy,  please be seated. 
Government senators  -  Aye. 
Opposition senators - No. 
Government senators - Aye. 
Government senators - Aye. 
Those against say no. 1 think the ayes have it. 
I regret very much lhat  Senator Drury  has spoken in such derogatory terms of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the Commonwealth Government in respect of the funds made available to South Australia. He said in his concluding remarks that the political atmosphere should be taken out of the financial relations between the Commonwealth and the States. In this I agree with him. However, from the attitude that he has adopted in this matter I believe that if bias is present it has been fomented and promoted in an unfair manner by the Premier of South Australia, and not by the Prime Minister. 
Yes. I and my colleagues at all times are seeking 10 obtain ihe best possible allocation of funds for South Australia to meet its various requirements. We seek always to achieve that objective. That is the reason for our being here. The main purpose of the Slates Grants (Special Assistance) Bill which is one of those now before us is to authorise the payment in 1970-71 of a special grant of S5m to South Australia and of SI 3.680m to Tasmania. Those payments are in accordance wilh (he recommendations contained in the 37th report of the Commonwealth 
Grants Commission which was before us recently. It is a good thing to look at the history leading to the present need for South Australia to revert to its status of a claimant State. In 1959-60 South Australia ceased to be a claimant State. I recall to the Senate a statement made by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Chifley,  to the effect that South Australia would never be other than a mendicant State. 
I cannot recall the year but the statement was made that South Australia, because of its lack of natural resources, would be unable to emerge into a position of complete financial independence. I recall that in 1938 the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Tom  Playford as he then was, when taking office said something to this effect: 'We in this State must cut our coat in accordance with the cloth that we have. We shall do all that we can to attract industry to South Australia. We shall do all that we can to make the fullest use of our natural resources. We shall administer the finances of the State carefully.' Following that statement in 1938 South Australia had its first experience of decentralisation of industry as between States when Philips Industries Ltd came to South Australia and set up our second major secondary industry. The first was the motor vehicle industry. Thereafter our economy, both industrial and rural, improved to the stage at which we were attracting to Australia more migrants per capita of the former population than was any other State in Australia. 
We certainly had many costs arising from that rapid increase in our population. But we were able to absorb that very high degree of migrant intake, to have full employment and to have the economy rising very nicely. However, it has to be realised that South Australia has its limitations in natural resources. With the best of endeavours over a couple of decades, with a rising economy and with that realisation of the State having to cut its coat in accordance with the cloth available to it, we held costs down in our State to such a degree that we were behind other States in certain services, although through this careful atten tion to the financial structure of the State we were able to have a wage rate slightly lower than that of other States but a more effective pay packet, which attracted industry to the State. 
So, we had a situation of a contented populace, a strengthening economy and an. ability, within our limited resources, to do those things which led us to emergence from a position which was described by  Mr Chifley  when he was Prime Minister in this way: 'South Australia can never be other than a State receiving special financial treatment from the Commonwealth'. With the increase in the level of services in Australia, it was necessary a couple of years ago to review our situation and our ability to maintain services at a level in parallel with other States without assistance additional to that which we were receiving under the normal arrangements for financial payments to the States exclusive of Commonwealth Grants Commission payments. 
We certainly are most sensitive in our secondary industries to any charge which has an effect on the motor industry, in the first place. Similarly, as we produce the bulk of the wines produced in Australia, I have expressed my concern at the possible effects of an impost which could be detrimental to that sector of industry. The motor industry and the wine industry are very important industries in South Australia. 
I wish to proceed to refer to the need to bear in mind that in South Australia we were able to have a certain level of services which was not in accord with the level of services being provided in other States. Now we have reached the stage where we need this extra money again. I believe that the whole background to this Commonwealth Grants Commission provision of S5m to South Australia is summed up neatly in the following words which appear in the Commonwealth Grants Commission report under the heading 'Inequalities among the States': 
The economies of the Australian States differ from one another in way which have an important bearing on the relative capacity of the several 
Slate governments to provide services for individuals and businesses. Among these differences are those of area, climate, topography, natural resources, size and distribution of population arid productive capacity, and levels of income and expenditure . . . 
These differences among the economies of the States give rise to fiscal inequalities. In general the fiscal inequalities take the form of differences in relative capacity to raise revenue from State taxes and other charges, in the relative cost of providing State government services and meeting public debt charges, and in the budgetary impact of the operations of State business undertakings. 
Sitting suspended from fi to  8  p.m. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended for dinner I was speaking of the bases for determining applications for financial assistance grants to the States under section 96 of the Consitution. I was speaking of the inequalities which do exist among the States. Their differences in total may be described as differences in fiscal capacity and may be partly or wholly offset by the pattern of distribution of Commonwealth financial assistance to the States. The Commonwealth Grants Commission takes this into account in assessing the need for a special grant. A State may be said to have below average fiscal capacity if, in the absence of the Commonwealth financial assistance to the Slate, the revenue obtained from taxes and charges of average overall severity would not be sufficient to enable that State to provide services of average overall scope and standard. Herein we have one of the finest instances of the value of federalism. The nation as a whole is viewed and its component parts are sought to be so assisted that standards may be common to ail States, taking into account disadvantages which are present in certain of the States. 
Earlier 1 referred to the basic difficulties which beset my State of South Australia, a large State in area and one not especially endowed with natural resources. For instance, in respect to power generation we have in the past had only one source although now we have two. Basically that power source is derived from the Leigh Creek coal fields. These coal fields are of quite low grade brown coal. By very excellent application to mining and transport to the power houses at Port Augusta, this coal provides South Australia with power at rates which are indeed most comparable in cost with any power generated from beat sources in Australia. But coal is a wasting asset and looking into the future it leads us in South Australia to feel that there is a very strong case - bearing in mind that we have no power source other than natural gas and the coal deposits to which 1 have referred - for South Australia to be given due consideration for the provision of a nuclear reactor to feed power into the State grids. This is vitally important for South Australia. At the same lime a nuclear reactor could deal with the other disadvantage from which we suffer and that is that we have only one major waterway to provide water over the bulk of the Stale. 
-- I would like to see that power station erected in South Australia to ensure to us a source of energy for industry and domestic requirements and also for the desalination of water. Power could be fed not only into our grids but also to users of power beyond our State. 
 I would be very interested to see the plans of the Atomic Energy Commission in respect of locations of future nuclear reactors. I can see that these could well be a source of energy in South Australia and that nuclear energy could be a basic and major factor in our maintaining a viable place in the scheme of things as part of the nation. The allocation of moneys to South Australia from Federal sources through the years has been vital to our ability to advance to our present situation. 1 remind honourable senators of a point to which 1 referred earlier - that it was only because of the requirement to build up our level of services and the general provision of those things which were common to other States that we found need to have recourse to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. 1 am very pleased that the Grants Commission, in determining South Australia's requirements as being beyond that which it received from the normal reimbursements and grants, is putting South Australia's economy into a condition which compares very favourably with that of other parts of Australia. I decry the reference of my friend  Senator Drury  to the parsimonious attitude of the Federal Government to South Australia. To describe this Government's attitude in that way is completely wrong. We in South Australia are appreciative of that which has been done for our State following the presentation of a case for means to meet certain of our requirements. In this matter of finance, which is so basic and vital to any State or nation, political footballing should never be allowed to intrude. I have every respect for the degree of fairness and consideration which has been displayed in determining what the nation requires overall, and I have no doubt that the impartiality which is applied reflects very creditably on the responsibility of the Government. 
My view of politics in other States of Australia is that that which is done in those States is their business. My concern is for my own State. But if I may say so, I admire the attitudes of the Victorian Premier in many ways. He has brought that State into a condition of economic prosperity which has been given to few States. That condition arises from a very purposeful and able administration of the affairs of that State. In South Australia we seek, and always shall seek, a fair slice of the cake. I honestly feel that a fair slice has been given to us. When, for reasons of inequality, such as those to which I have referred, we present cases for further slices, when credence is given to our situation and we then view our treatment calmly, coldly and fairly, I think we will all realise that there is a good future for our federation of States and for our nation. In my opinion we cannot afford to emphasise political aspects unduly and to decry the need for purposeful national development while seeking an expedient that will be of temporary advantage. 
In this document now before us we see the very foundation of a system which is doing a great deal for our overall economy. On this basis I feel we can look forward with confidence to the future position as between the States and within the States. I have every confidence in the situation now applying. 1 appreciate our ability to have recourse to the Commonwealth Grants Commission for consideration. Here we have $5m being granted to us not on the basis of political expediency or of yelling out for a certain thing but on the basis of a proven requirement determined by those who will determine what is required beyond what is now being granted to South Australia to enable that State to reach approximately the standards applying in other States in education, hospital and social services and in general wages. So I have pleasure indeed in supporting this Bill. I trust that the system now applying will be carried on with purposeful national planning and consideration not unduly influenced by short term political expediency. I support the Bill. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development in the Senate. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to recent disturbing reports of heavy pollution of the River Murray before its waters reach South Australia, leading to the river's description as a major sewer'? I refer to pollutants other than those of saline origin. Is the Minister aware that the River Murray is the vital source of water supply to South Australia for domestic, stock watering, irrigation and industrial purposes? To what extent does the Ministry of National Development, in conjunction with the interested States of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, supervise and control the discharge of obnoxious effluents into the River Murray to ensure water of acceptable quality to South Australia as the end receiver? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows upon the one about death duties asked by  Senator Webster.  Is it a fact that only 0.85 per cent of Federal revenue is derived from this source? As the States have succession duties as one of their means of raising revenue and as they have in recent times, in some instances, increased the incidence of this obnoxious form of tax, will the Minister seek from the Treasurer an assurance that the Commonwealth will give serious consideration to vacating this field of taxation, as it has the area of land tax, and thereby remove this most undesirable form of taxation from the cheap political football arena? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, concerns the urgently needed completion of the sealing of the remaining loose surface section of the Eyre Highway in South Australia. Does the Government regard the Eyre Highway as having national economic and defence importance, and as a highway which is peculiarly not the responsibility of a single State? As the proposal put forward by the South Australian Government to provide funds for the bitumenising project in the proportion of $1 State funds to each $2 Commonwealth contribution has been rejected, will the Minister seek to obtain criteria from the Minister for Shipping and Transport as to what would constitute to the Commonwealth acceptable conditions to enable sealing te proceed? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are there any means of ascertaining the volume of interstate traffic in wheat outside the provisions of the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Act? Can the Minister see a threat to the orderly marketing of wheat in Australia arising from this very undesirable practice? What action is being taken or contemplated to eradicate it? 
1 wish to speak very briefly in support of the Bill and particularly in support of the provision to enable the  President  of the Australian National University Student's Association to be added to the Council of the Australian National University as an ex officio member. J disagree completely wilh that which was said by  Senator Keeffe  in respect of the amendment moved by  Senator McManus.  I regard it as very desirable that there be adequate representation of the student body on the Council. Human nature is such that there is nothing more conducive to properly balanced attitudes than the assumption of responsibility and a sense oE personal obligation and belonging. 
Throughout the whole social and economic structure, youth is participating to a much greater degree than it did a decade or so ago. I believe that it is in this increased participation that the answer would lie to many of the problems which now confront us throughout the whole of our social structure, and so I am very keen to see an accentuation of activity by youth in many parts of. our national life. Looking back, one can note the beneficial effects of a responsible attitude by youth in many spheres of activity throughout the country. But  1  believe that at this time it is very necessary, indeed vitally necessary, that the fears in the public mind - fears in my mind and in the minds' of many members of the Parliament - in regard to the licence being taken by student bodies, as instanced by the publication of the paper 'Woroni', be allayed. This is to be condemned as something not in accord with seeking what we speak of so often as a higher quality of life. 
I believe that the attitude of  Senator McManus  is to be commended. He expresses it emphatically in his amendment, which states:   . . the Senate believes that a university student body seeking representation in the control of a university has an obligation to show that it has a sense of responsibility and regard for the good name of the university which would be manifested, for example, in a rejection of crude pornography as a feature of . official student journalism. 
That statement is not excessive; but it clearly lays on the line that which many of us are thinking is necessary to enable youth to take a greater part in the whole gamut of national activities. I believe that it is so detrimental to have brought into the situation facets such as those which come before us in the publication at which I have had a glance that we should express our deep concern at a problem, the answer to which will lie, firstly;' with the student bodies themselves; if not wilh them, then with the directing authorities of the universities; and if not with them, then with some further authority, in order to ensure that the quality of life which we seek to attain may be attained and not lowered as it is being lowered through the presence of publications such as 'Woroni'. 
J desire to ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise whether it is a fact that 80 per cent of table wine consumption in Australia is in the lesser priced flagon trade? Is it a fact that the wine sales figures for the December quarter of 1970 as issued by the Bureau of Census and Statistics reveal heavy decreases in comparative figures for the previous year in this vitally important section of the wine trade which has the heaviest incidence of the across the board wine tax charge of 50c a gallon? As decreases in sales in this section have direct bearing on the ability of the wine industry to process the rising tonnages of grapes being produced from increased plantings, will the Minister have an investigation made into the grape growing and wine making industries, vis-a-vis the effects of the excise charge thus far evident. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to statements reported in the weekend Press to have been made by  Mr Harry  Palmer, General Manager of the Australian Wine Board, and  Mr Elton  Johnson,  Chairman  of the Renmark Growers Distillery, in which they expressed alarm at repercussions of the incidence of the 50c a gallon wine tax? They stated that the excise is crippling the previously prosperous South Australian wine industry. Is the Minister aware that the Renmark Growers Distillery, a grape growers' co-operative organisation, and the fourth largest winery in Australia, processing about 20,000 tons of grapes a year and providing an outlet for the vintages of about 400 grower members, has experienced an actual drop in sales of about 30 per cent since the imposition of the tax? As 1 am advised that some other wineries have experienced a 50 per cent drop in sales, quite apart from the normally anticipated annual growth in demand, will the Minister request the Minister for Customs and Excise to consider immediately the abolition of the tax? 
 I believe it is vitally important that this provision be retained in the resolution, particularly as we have removed the philosophy embraced in the words: 
. believing that there should be a clear recognition of the different roles to be performed by standing committees and select committees and affirming the need for the continuing role of each . . . 
The deletion of those words in my opinion underlines the real necessity for the retention of an indication of what standing committees were originally intended to do. This was to provide committees to which certain matters could be referred for quick action, determination and report to the Senate. So we have the 2 provinces. One form of committee can attend expeditiously to a small term of reference. More important matters can be referred to select commit tees.I feel that the principle embodied in this paragraph is vitally important to the success of the whole committee system. 
 I desire to ask  a  question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry I ask: Is it a fact that one of the guidelines for the quota scheme for wheat deliveries adopted  by the wheat  industry in March 1969 provided that the scheme should not curtail the production of any type of wheat that is readily saleable? Is it a fact that certain areas of South Australia which are subject to low average rainfall and the incidence of drought, such as the Murray, Mallee, Murray Plains and parts of the Eyre Peninsula, are eminently suitable for the production of hard wheats for which there is a ready sale on both local and overseas markets? In view of this situation will South Australia be considered for allocation of a special hard wheat  quota, as  applies to New South Wales and Queensland? Further, as the areas particularly referred to are subject to extremely difficult seasonal conditions, with spasmodic good seasons, could they be permitted to have no restriction on the production of approved varieties of hard wheats? 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Works, follows the question addressed to him by 

 Senator Rae concerning a reduction in public works expenditure in certain capital cities consequent upon the economy drive. Can the Minister indicate the specific works in the various capital cities to which the reduction will apply? 
 I appreciate that this Income Tax Assessment Bill is an anti-inflationary measure, but I am dismayed that it has been introduced. The 20 per cent investment allowance for manufacturing plant and equipment has been of real value in maintaining productivity in industry. I am pleased to note that the suspension of the allowance is not to apply to plant and machinery required for primary industry. I believe that the need for this special tax deduction of 20 per cent of capital expenditure is as present today for efficiency in production as it was when the concession was first allowed in 1962. Back in 1962 when the then Treasurer,  Mr Harold  Holt, introduced this new idea he said: 
In proposing the allowance the Government aims to encourage greater investment in our manufacturing industries and thus ensure, in both the short and the long term, a greater volume of both output and employment. It seeks also to promote greater efficiency in manufacturing production from which should flow the advantages of lower costs which will benefit the Australian consumer and help our industries to seek export opportunities in markets overseas. 
The employment situation thai obtained in 1962 is not present with  us  today. We have a temporary incidence of a high degree of inflation in Australia today but this does not call for any inhibition to be placed on efficiency. Yet such an inhibition wm follow the withdrawal of this concession. Whether we think of a big industrial complex or small privately conducted organisation, this allowance has meant greater liquidity for the organisation that has required machinery to keep abreast of the times and to produce the lowest unit figure possible. In my opinion it is a retrograde step to get away from this basic ability to keep productivity reasonably in line with costs. 
I have a very keen awareness of the need for small industrial organisations in Australia to be given all the encouragement possible. A huge sector of our manufacturing interests is in the hands of the comparatively small man and he is the one who at all times is short of capital to do the things that are necessary to enable him to grow and to compete in both the local and the overseas markets. Those of us who have had practical experience in running a business know that the depreciation allowance and the investment allowance have been of real assistance in enabling us to keep abreast: of those things which we regard as - vital to maintaining an efficient industry. 
Finance always is the limiting factor with many of our industries. This is the case even if we look at the largest complexes in Australia, even the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. How often that organisation has been maligned because in the minds of those who have condemned it there has been no appreciation of the relationship between capital investment and the return on it. But to that organisation, as well as to the small organisation, the depreciation and investment allowances are very important. The  chairman  of directors of BHP,  Sir Colin  Syme, said in his half yearly report on 23rd February this year. 
The suspension of the investment allowance has important consequences for BHP. These allowances have been a valuable source of cash flow when it was most needed - at the beginning of operations of qualifying new projects.  1 do not regard that statement as having been made by  Sir Colin  Syme with his tongue in his cheek. The big organisations in Australia have expended huge amounts of money for the benefit of our nation. When we hear references such as that to the need for the continuation of these allowances in that sector, and in the sector which I know more about personally, I say that the word suspend', which was used in the second reading speech when this Bill was introduced, becomes very important. I hope that the suspension will not be of long duration. 1 hope the concessions will not be eliminated altogether. In the last 12 months investment in manufacturing plant and equipment in Australia has advanced by only 10 per cent. That is not a big advance at all. There has been huge capital investment in mining but in the manufacturing sector it has only represented 10 per cent, which actually was a decrease on that in the previous 12 months up to February this year. If we are to keep a buoyant economy and to give encouragement to those who are prepared to lay out capital in order to keep modern and competitive I hope that the word 'suspension' is real when it is applied to this legislation. 
The principle inherent in  Senator Murphy's  motion is that there must be a continuing and definite Government activity for the preservation of our environment. I agree completely with this attitude and 1 commend him for having introduced the proposal. Perhaps the honourable senator could have used verbage to make it a more definite reference of the whole matter, but I agree with the attitude and the intention behind the proposal. When  Senator Henty  proposed that there be set up 2 select committees, one to study the problem of air pollution and the other to study water pollution in Australia, I felt at the time that the proposal was rather premature. Bearing in mind the vast open spaces of Australia one would spontaneously react that it could not happen here, that the things that, we read about as happening in other parts of the world just could not happen in Australia. It was not very long after the formation of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution, under the chairmanship of  Senator Branson,  that we realised from evidence that we had a problem in Australia far beyond that which could have been even remotely anticipated by anyone in this chamber or by the public at large. 
Reference was made this evening by  Senator Murphy  to the presence of carbon monoxide at certain peak periods of traffic in Sydney. Frightening figures were revealed to us in evidence showing that at some peak traffic hours there were recordings as high as 80 parts per million of carbon monoxide in Sydney at certain locations. When one realises that that is within 20 parts per million of a toxic presence of CO, one realises that it is high time that we as a nation became interested in our environment and that what is happening here has not before been completely recognised. I feel that the activities of both the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution have led to a deep awareness in Australia of a problem of environment generally and that therein lies one of the greatest benefits of setting up these committees. 
I have before me a feature article issued by the Information Service of the British High Commission in Australia on 25th March - 5 days ago. It states that environment is now more than a passing fashion. lt refers to the appreciation of the old countries of the world of the need for drastic action to remove a condition which was applying there to a degree which was most detrimental to the quality of life of the people. It mentions action that was taken in Great Britain. A year and a half ago, from the top of Australia House and looking over London, I was able to see what had been achieved in a few brief years to improve the atmosphere and obtain clearer air. I would have expected to see a rather smudgy, grim and smoky city. I had the delightful experience of seeing the effect of a proper approach by Government to ensure an improved environment in the City of London. For example, there had been the prohibition of coal grates in homes in certain areas where tremendous amounts of smoke had been exuded into the atmosphere, leaving behind a grime which in addition to the effects of industry had put over the city a ceiling through which the sun could not penetrate. Today the sun is penetrating through what was hitherto a ceiling over the old city of London. As a result the environment and the people's place of living has been vastly improved. 
We can learn from the old, but we must realise also that we will have in Australia very similar problems unless we act. as  Senator Murphy  suggests, in a continuing role of persistence in ensuring that we maintain here an environment to which we would all ascribe. This article on environment issued by the Information Service of the British High Commission in Australia stated: 
Sixth-form schoolchildren in Britain may later this year be studying the problems of the environment and pollution as part of their final examinations. 
The proposed course - it has still to receive final sanction - would take in deforestation, soil erosion, noise and pollution in the towns. 
The report goes on to state that since Londoners have taken an interest in improving the environment they have recorded that there are now 138 bird species in that city. 
These are plumed birds of bright colours. Also, 57 fish specimens are now available to anglers from the once barren River Thames. This is a great improvement. This next point relates to the important role to be taken by government. Under the sub-heading 'Change in Attitude' the article goes on to state: 
News of the study course came in a week marked by the first report of the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution . set up by the British Government just over a year ago. 
The report itself, and the course, underline a change in public attitude to  enrivonmental  dilemmas - the shouting is over, the work has begun. 
I say again that  Senator Murphy's  proposal for the reference of these matters to the Standing Committee on Social Environment means that the games are over and it is now a serious business to ensure the retention of the Australian environment. We have to keep it as it has been in the past. Judging by the present trend of things and the concentration of pollution in certain areas, woe betide us unless we do become active. 
While taking evidence during the inquiry by the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution I and my fellow Committee members were impressed with State activity to combat air pollution. Action taken in New South Wales impressed me particularly. According to evidence given to us, in the 7 years following the passage of the Clean Air Act in New South Wales pollution problems in the major industrial areas in that State had abated by 40 per cent. This was in spite of a doubling of the industrial capacity. This shows what can be done when there is a concerted effort on the part of a government and which is appreciated by the public. I would like to see greater activity by this Government in accordance with the recommendations of both the Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Select Committee on Water pollution. The No. 1 recommendation of the Committee on Air Pollution was that the Commonwealth should enact legislation immediately to control air pollution within its territories. Realising that environmental control basically is a State matter, it is incumbent upon the central authority to lead the way and thereafter to act jointly with the States to ensure a better approach generally and a common attitude to the problem. 
That is it. The Commonwealth should set the pace and the example. There should be no undue intrusion by the Commonwealth but there should be helpful co-operation between the Stales and the Commonwealth by use of the bureau we proposed. I have no desire to speak at length on this matter. My point in rising was to commend the proposal to refer this matter to the Standing Committee on Social Environment. The Committee has been set up and now it must become active. In brief, I heartily support this proposal. The motion is timely and f look forward to interest being shown collectively by the Government and the people of Australia lo ensure that we retain for ourselves Australia as a place with lovely clean air, open spaces and a decent atmosphere. I support the motion. 
Has the Minister for Air yet made a determination of the matter of the Royal Australian Air Force display, commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the formation of the RAAF, at the Edinburgh air base in South Australia being deferred from the proposed day - namely, Saturday 17th April - to the following day to avoid clashing with the main day of the Barossa Valley Vintage Festival celebrations? If the air pageant cannot be deferred to the following day, will consideration be given to varying the hours of the pageant to from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. to enable observers of it to proceed to the Barossa Valley in time to join in the festivities there? 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the difficult financial situation in which many privately owned and community directed hospitals find themselves in providing accommodation for pensioners? Will consideration be given to the question of providing increased financial assistance to such institutions to enable them to continue to provide their essential services to pensioners and folk on low incomes? 
 Mr Deputy President,  in a very few wordsI wish to express my great pleasure at the warm tributes paid to the  chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Off-shore Petroleum Resources,  Senator Greenwood.  He has been superb as its  chairman.  I agree with the tributes paid to him by  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Cant  and wish him well in his new activities  as  Minister for Health. That  is  all I have to say about the matter before the Senate at the moment. 
 I wish to add my word of approval and commendation to the proposals contained in the 3 Bills. The Australian dried fruits industry is a very important component of the overall fruit industry of Australia. It is interesting to note that, although the 311,000 acres under fruit cultivation and the 140,000 acres under vineyard cultivation represent only 1 per cent of the whole area cultivated for crops in Australia, the produce of this area represents 13 per cent of the gross value of the principal crops produced. In the dried fruits sector of the fruit industry, for a number of years growers have provided finance on an ad hoc basis for specific dried fruits research projects. They have been supported by the Government. It is good to see that now this very important sector of fruit growing is to receive a Si for $1 subsidy for research work to be undertaken. At present the importance of research is underlined by the need to meet the rising cost of production to producers generally and the increased competition in overseas markets and by the need for more stringent quality standards on both home and overseas markets. 
There are precedents for a research scheme being evolved for this industry in that research schemes have been evolved for other rural industries such as the wool, wheat, meat, dairy products, tobacco, egg and chicken meat industries. These 7 industries have research facilities available to them. This has been brought about through their own efforts and through government assistance. I feel that, in the eighth instance, the establishment of research facilities is an indication of the Government's policy of encouraging and fostering self-help schemes. I do think that, when an industry shows its preparedness to do things for itself - things which will be for its own benefit and, collectively, for the benefit of the nation - the Government can come into the picture and assist with what has been proved to be an important scheme. By virtue of the preparedness of an individual industry to do things for itself in the first instance, the Government can assist. 
I feel that there is a close connection between the promotion of dried fruits - for efficiency in the industry and for ability to dispose of the product in overseas markets - and the production of vine fruits, f note that last year 92,043 tons of currants, sultanas and raisins were produced. It is of great interest to note an association between the tonnage of currants, sultanas and raisins going into the dried sector of the industry and the usage of some varieties of vine fruits for wine making. Honourable senators will note that, when there has been a great demand for grapes of the varieties which can be used by wineries, there has been a decrease in the production of dried fruits. For instance, in 1967 there was an all-time record production of vine fruits for the making of currants, sultanas and raisins amounting to 86,933 tons. The following year there was an even higher tonnage. This was at a time when great difficulty was being experienced by growers of vine fruits who wished to dispose of grapes to the wineries. . 
I feel that we have to be very careful that, with greater acreages of grapes which can be used for wine making being sown and with the huge amounts of this type of grape coming forward, in the process of things there shall be facility for disposal of the production via the dried fruit sector. 1 noted the very high figures for the production of dried vine fruits in 1966-67. These were the years in which the growers had difficulty in disposing of their produce to the wineries. So I feel it is encumbent on the fruit growing and vine growing industry generally to ensure a continuing interest and ability to produce at economic levels in the dried fruit sector to meet a situation, which could well arise, in which the growers could be faced with difficulty in disposing of their produce in one form or another. 
 It is the other way round. It is more that certain drying types can be used for wine manufacture. Because of the cheaper labour costs involved in picking and delivering to a winery as against the long process of drying, there is a tendency on the part of many to short cut and sell their produce of the drying types to the wineries. In recent years there has been a quite active demand for this type of grape at the wineries. The danger to which 1 refer is that if that outlet is denied to the grower there has to be ability to place that fruit in the dried form. This is where research is so important. Herein lies the value of the legislation which provides that there shall be a maximum levy of Si per ton on currants, sultanas and raisins and of S5 per ton on dried apricots, pears, peaches, nectarines and prunes. The actual operative rates are to be prescribed by regulation. The figures to which I have referred are the maximum. 
I feel that unless we are prepared to give extra consideration to conducting continuous research into our ability lo produce the best quality dried fruits at the lowest cost lo the producer this important seclion - the dried fruit section - of the whole fruit industry faces very great difficulties. It is for these reasons that 1 welcome the introduction of this legislation and commend the Government for having been prepared, at the request of the Australian Dried Fruits Association, spontaneously to assist on a  $1  for $1 basis in the things which the industry itself desires to do to promote ils welfare and, through promoting its own welfare, to promote the wellbeing of the fruit industry- in Australia. I support the Bills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Did Messrs Harry Palmer. General Manager of the Australian Wine Board, and Elton Johnson, Chairman of the Renmark Growers Distillery, in a Press statement at the weekend express alarm at the repercussions of the incidence of the 50c per gallon wine tax. 
Did these authorities stale that the excise is crippling the previously prosperous South Australian wine industry. 
Has the Renmark Growers' Distillery the fourth largest winery in Australia experienced an actual drop in sales of 30 per cent since the imposition of the tax. 
Will the Minister for Customs and Excise give immediate consideration to the abolition of the tax as some other wineries are believed to have experienced a50 per cent drop in sales. 
Is the Minister for Health aware that a comparatively small country district hospital such as the Angaston hospital in South Australia is incurring embarrassingly heavy losses, no less' than $15,580 in the last 7 months, in providing for pensioner patients? As the Commonwealth grant of $5 a day and the State grant of $2 a day are obviously insufficient to provide for the hospital costs of pensioners, will urgent consideration be given to alleviating this position which is common to such hospitals throughout the country, as it is to privately owned hospitals? 
 I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has consideration been given to varying the composition of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to include jurists, economists and businessmen to ensure that more detailed attention is given to the vital relationship of wage levels to productivity? Is it not a fact that the present emphasis on capacity to pay, as one of the major criteria in wage determinations, leads to undue increases in the prices of essential commodities with resultant continuation and aggravation of the cost spiral? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development whether a determination has, as yet, been made in respect of the application made to the Commonwealth Government for financial assistance for the South Australian pipeline project on Eyre Peninsula which is designed to provide urgently needed water supplies from the Polda Basin to the Kimba area? 
I present the report of Estimates Committee C on the additional Estimates for the year 1970-71, together with the Hansard transcript of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Are there any requests? 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 In similar circumstances to those referred to by  Senator Marriott,  in discussing our report in Estimates Committee C reference was made - this was not to be included in our report - to the rather lengthy time that elapsed before members had access to the Hansard report of the proceedings of our Committee. In this there was absolutely no criticism of officers of the Hansard staff, who I feel have done a magnificent job under extremely heavy pressure in producing, with the expedition with which they did, both the daily Hansard and all the other literature that has arisen in connection with committee work, for they were working under difficulty in the first place. However, my Committee thought that consideration should be given wherever possible to the provision of the necessary facilities. Possibly it is in the printing department that the delays have occurred. 
Yes. My Committee thought that consideration might be given to the provision of facilities that would enable the Hansard reports to be made available to members of the Senate more quickly than has been the case. I stress most warmly that members of Estimates Committee C, in common with those of  Senator Marriott's  Committee, were high in their praise of what had been done by the Hansard staff, but thought that there were some weaknesses in the system which could well be looked at to ensure greater expedition in the presentation of the printed Hansard of committee proceedings. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the concern of Australian studmasters at the seemingly inordinate delay being experienced in obtaining permits for the importation of thoroughbred horses which have been purchased by them in England? Can the Minister indicate the cause of the delay? Will steps be taken to expedite the entry of such bloodstock into this country? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware of the keen desire of many South Australians who are preservationists of architecturally beautiful and historically interesting buildings to save the old Australia and New Zealand Bank building in King William Street from demolition because of its unique and outstanding architectural design, character and beauty? Is the Minister aware that the preservation project is sought to be financed by subscriptions from the public? As it is vital to the success of the campaign to raise funds that donations be tax deductible, will the Minister ask his eoi-, league to give favourable consideration to the application of the committee conducting the campaign to have donations deductible for taxation purposes and so ensure the success of the move to retain this magnificent building in the very heart of our city? 
I am not aware that there is a move for the preservation of the Australia and New Zealand Bank building in Adelaide, although I can appreciate the type of thinking which would prompt people to come together for that purpose, having regard to the very beautiful city of Adelaide. My understanding is that, as a general rule, the concessional allowance for donations is directed more towards those made to charitable organisations. Some gift or some donation to a charity, under certain circumstances, by the right of the Treasurer, is an eligible taxation deduction within the limits of the taxation law. I am not aware whether this would apply or could reasonably be expected to apply in this type of case, but the decision is for the Treasurer to make. Perhaps I should not prejudge him or his decision on the project. I will have the matter referred to him. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Further to my question of last week with respect to the provision of a pipeline for the reticulation of water from the Polda Basin to Kimba on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia, I ask whether a decision has yet been made with respect to this project? When I last asked the question a reply was to be made within a few days of that time. Is the reply yet available? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the fact acknowledged by the Government that many rural holdings which constituted an economic unit some 10 or 15 years ago are no longer so because of inadequacy of area, has a determination yet been made in response to the representations of the Upper Murray Ex-Servicemen's Land Settlement Association at Loxton; South Australia, for permission for block holders to purchase at departmental reserve prices neighbouring land settlement blocks, the leases of which have been surrendered? 
I direct this question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it not a fact that Adelaide and the South Australian economy generally are suffering a series of continuing handicaps through lack of connection with the transcontinental standard gauge railway complex? As the disability can only be overcome by the provision of the Port Pirie-Adelaide link, can the Minister tell us when work will commence on this inordinately delayed project? Will the Government do all within its power to expedite this vital work? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question further to the one that I asked yesterday concerning representations made to the Minister for Primary Industry on behalf of the Upper Murray Ex-Servicemen's Land Settlement Association at Loxton in South Australia. Is it true that the settlers have sought permission or provision to purchase at departmental reserve prices certain neighbouring blocks, the leases of which have been surrendered? Has a determination yet been made in this very important matter? 
 I wish to indicate briefly my support of this Bill which seeks the approval of the Parliament for the construction by Commonwealth Railways of a new single spur railway line from Knuckey's Lagoon on the North Australian Railway to the East Arm of the Darwin Harbour. This proposed railway line is an integral part of the development of the Port of Darwin. It is good to see this proposal in legislative form. I feel that the railway systems of Australia are by no means moribund, particularly in respect of the establishment of lines which have a specific purpose. In this case, the specific purpose is the handling of bulk materials. So a means of transport is to be provided which, carrying a given amount of traffic, will be far more efficient and cost less in maintenance than would the movement of great volumes of heavy transports over roads, necessitating those roads to be repaired continually. 
I wish to take . this . opportunity to express pleasure at the decision to build a railway line from Port Augusta . to Whyalla. Again a specific purpose . is involved. This railway facility will enable industry at Whyalla to be connected with and have access to markets, for its products all over Australia. With its direct link into the transcontinental railway system the point of production will be connected to the capital cities of Australia. With respect to the establishment of the urgently required standard gauge line link between Port Pirie and Adelaide, which will result in industry being linked with the transcontinental railway system, I point , out that here again we have an example of a facility directly related to the most efficient means of transporting heavy goods in volume with as few handling movements as possible of that commodity or cargo from the point of production to the point of sale. So, I support the Northern Territory Railway Extension Bill. I emphasise the high importance nationally in the scheme  of  things and  in  our economy generally  of the  establishment of railway lines providing access to specific  places  for  special  transport purposes. I support  the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is the Minister aware of the deeply disturbing decrease in wholesale wine sales since the imposition of a 50c per gallon excise charge? Has his attention been drawn to the statement made yesterday by  Mr Jeffery  Penfold Hyland,  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council, that the decrease is an effective 20 per cent, equivalent to an annual figure of nearly 5 million gallons? As repercussions of this dismaying decrease must inevitably have a direct bearing on the grape growing industry, particularly in the heavy producing irrigation vineyard areas, will special credence be given to the rising problems of growers in regard to outlets for their grapes when the interdepartmental committee reports on the effects of the excise and a decision is made on the continuation or abolition of the charge? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Social Service? whether he is aware of the splendid job being done by the Service to Youth Council in South Australia, a voluntary organisation which has a staff of trained young counsellors providing a 24-hour advisory service to youth who have the pressing social problems which are plaguing many young people today. Is the Minister aware that the work of the counsellors is backed by the honorary services of social workers, doctors, lawyers and psychologists? In view of the great social need for this type of social welfare activity, will the Government give consideration to including a monetary provision in the next Budget for the work of this laudable voluntary organisation, the Service to Youth Council in South Australia? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior noted the current price war between retailers of bread in Canberra? Is not this situation one in which the elements of the undesirable practice known as leader in g are present? Could not this have severe repercussions on the bread making and bread distribution industries and ultimately depriving the public of bread home delivery services? In this situation can any action be taken to ensure that a continuation of home deliveries is not jeopardised as this is a real service to many householders who do not have facilities for daily shopping? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to the statement of the Medical Director of the National Heart Foundation, South Australian Division,  Dr Clifford  C. Jungfer, reported in yesterday's 'Advertiser' in Adelaide that there was no scientific proof that milk caused heart disease? Is it not a fact that the controversy over diet is currently obscuring the facts about risk factors in coronary hean disease, as stated by  Dr R.  Reader, the Director of the National Heart Foundation of Australia? In the process of unfounded criticism being voiced, is the dairy industry not being unfairly and unjustly maligned? 
 I loo pin my faith on the outcome of the reference to the Special Advisory Authority for the future wellbeing of the cherry industry. In referring to that section of the Customs Tariff Bill relating to the cherry industry, I express my deep concern about its inevitable deleterious impact on the cherry growing industry unless the recommendations for the removal of duties on drained, glace, crystallised and brined cherries are so varied as to again provide the protection which the industry has enjoyed and has required for a considerable period. Adoption of this recommen dation means the removal of the present duties of 42.5c per gallon on brined cherries and 47i per cent ad valorem on drained cherries, as well as the existing temporary duty of 6c per pound on fresh cherries. 
The crux of this matter is that the cherry growing industry, quite a precarious one in the horticultural sector of our rural interests, has about 85 per cent of its production sold as fresh fruit. The remainder of the crop must find a home somewhere else otherwise there is a glut of fresh fruit on the market which would have such adverse effects on the industry as possibly to' prevent its continuance as a viable industry. Removal of this protection for the balance of production and allowing brined cherries to be imported duty free would do away with the safety valve, as it were, which controls excess production. This' really would jeopardise the whole industry. I do not wish to go into the details of the industry because  Senator Webster  covered it very well. I concur with what he said about it. At this stage  I  feel that the Ninth Schedule of the Bill should not be accepted. It is in the best interests of the economy generally, and the' cherry growing industry particularly, that we stress to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  firstly, that every consideration be given to the great importance of retaining the cherry industry in  a  viable position by ensuring that it has reasonable protection, and secondly, that an opening should be left to the industry for cherries surplus to fresh fruit consumption to be used for brining, crystallising and glazing. Some varieties of cherries are not sought after so keenly as are fresh fruit but those varieties are best suited for glazing and crystallising. 
I support the Bill. I look forward to receiving from the Minister the assurance requested by  Senator Webster  and  Senator Little.  I commend the Minister for Trade and Industry for referring this matter to the Special Advisory Authority in the light of what happened after acceptance of the recommendation of the Tariff Board.  I  want to read to the Senate a reply by the Minister for Trade and Industry to a question asked on 22nd April in another place. He was referring to the cherry industry and the problems confronting it arising from non-protection of this sector to which I have been directing my remarks. He said, inter alia: 
Because of many representations from the industry and from honourable members ... my Department arranged for a consultation between the growers, the briners, the canners and the processors to see whether there was a likely alternative market for these cherries in 1971. Negotiations between the briners and the processors up to this date show that the potential market is very doubtful. 
This is the very point made so forcibly to me some months ago by those engaged in the industry. 
The Minister said this on 22nd April. 
That is right. It means that 30 days from that date we should have the determination of the Special Advisory Authority. In replying to this question the Minister also said: 
As a result of this information I referred this matter this morning to the Special Advisory Authority for further advice. 
The matter having been referred to the Authority, it is obliged to make a report to me within 30 days. 
So, on the 22nd of this month, we can expect to have knowledge of the determination. Without presuming any decision which could be made, I hope that the determination will be such as to enable the cherry industry to continue as a viable industry. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister who represents the Minister for National Development in this chamber. Has a determination as yet been made n respect of South Australia's request to the Commonwealth for financial assistance to implement the proposed water reticulation project to the Kimba area from the Polda Basin on Eyre Peninsula in South Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Works a question. In the letting of tenders for public works in the various States is any preference given to local tenders as against tenders from interstate firms? 
I commend the Government for the introduction of the 2 Bills. The Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill 1971 is to amend the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act 1935-1950 to allow the funds available to the States in accordance with that Act to be used for the same purpose as the funds to be provided by the Commonwealth under the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill, which is the second Bill being considered at present. The original Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act of 1935 authorised the making of grants to the States for the purpose of discharging, in whole or in part, the debts of farmers by means of compositions or schemes of arrangement between farmers and their creditors. The States were empowered to use the funds to make either grants or loans .to farmers. One of the conditions in the Act was that repayments to the. States were to be used for the same purposes and were to be so arranged as to provide a revolving fund. At June 1970 the States had cash balances totalling $7. 6m in this account. Loans outstanding to the States from the various farmers totalled $4. 6m. Now it is agreed that the States should use the balance available to them to implement the provisions of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. 1 was delighted to hear, in the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  when he was introducing the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Bill, a reference to the decision of the Government to advance to the Commonwealth Development Bank $10m out of the next Budget to enable the Bank to expand its operations. The money to be advanced will provide further means of facilitating desirable structural adjustment in rural industries. The Board of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation has agreed to widen the lending activities of the Commonwealth Development Bank. At present the Bank does not approve loan applications for property purchases which do not involve substantial developmental features. It has now been decided that the Bank will enter the field assistance to farmers to acquire additional land to build up the size and operational efficiency of their farms. Those eligible for assistance will be working farmers whose properties may be too small to constitute an enterprise viable in the long run or farmers who, by acquiring additional land, will assist the adjustment process through enabling uneconomic farms, as determined by the vendors, to be purchased. 
So we have a very constructive backgrounds of assistance which will operate in conjunction with the provisions of the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill. The purpose of that Bill is to provide our approval for the execution on behalf of the Commonwealth of an agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for a rural reconstruction scheme and to appropriate funds for grants to the States for carrying out the scheme. The amount involved is $100m over a period of 4 years. I appreciate that this provision will not provide a panacea for all the troubles besetting the rural industries, but it is a step in the right direction. I feel that much more finance will be needed than is provided for at this stage. However, as I say, it is a beginning, and a most commendable one. Clause 24 of the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill provides for a review of the provisions of the loan. This is a very important part of the agreement and I propose to make a special reference to it. The clause states: (1.) The operation of the Scheme in relation to all of the States will be reviewed from time to time as appropriate by the Commonwealth and the States in the light of experience in its administration. (2.) A review under sub-clause (1.) of this clause shall be carried out not later than the time necessary to enable to be brought into operation by the first day of July, 1972 any adjustments or amendments which it may be agreed should be made to the scheme in respect of - 
the funds to be provided for the Scheme; 
In other words, there is to be a review of the amount of money which has been made available. I trust that on the basis of experience it could well be that additional funds will be provided. The clause continues: 
the allocation of funds between the States; 
Again this would be a matter of deciding whether, in the light of experience, any variation was required. It continues: 
the provisions for losses (other than unforeseen losses) and write-offs available to the States under the Scheme; 
the interest rates to be charged to borrowers; and 
the proportion of the financial assistance applied to farm build-up. 
This is related to financial reconstruction. 
With regard to the exchange of information, clause 25 of the Schedule provides: 
The Authorities of the States and appropriate Commonwealth officers associated with the Scheme will meet together as appropriate and at least once in each year and exchange information on any matters pertinent- to the Scheme. 
In that clause we have provision for a continuing liaison between the Commonwealth and the States to ensure that the scheme will be effective, that it will meet situations as they are found to arise and, overall, will achieve those things that the Bills now before us seek to achieve. I feel that this review clause gives a resilience to the execution of the plan. It is in the light of this preparedness to have continuing further looks that I feel that within these measures we have a practical approach to the problems of the industry. 
The problems of rural industries are not economic only; they are social problems and very personal problems. In hard business reviews there can be condemnations or criticisms of certain aspects of investment in rural industry, but it is true to say that nowhere in the world has efficiency in rural production reached the heights that we have achieved here in Australia. It is unthinkable in a world of rapidly increasing population and increasing food requirements that Australia, which is one of the most blessed and efficient granaries and natural food and fibre producers, should not continue to play a major role on the world scene in providing rural products in volume. We are passing through the most difficult era that rural industries, especially the wool industry, have ever experienced, but I feel that all is not lost. It is amazing to note from time to time that we are in a situation in which there appears to be no hope ahead, but then through our ability to carry on and ride the storm we emerge into a better condition. I have no doubt that in respect of the major problems which now confront us these little silver linings will come through the dark clouds. Through a sympathetic acceptance of a difficult situation and a preparedness to act in the way provided for in these 2 Bills, I feel that we can emerge to a condition wherein the 2 sectors of our economy, complementary one to the other, can ensure the general welfare of the people of our country. 
I feel that the recognition by the Government and the people of the essentiality of rural industry is imperative. The Government is showing its recognition through this legislation. I feel that the public interest can be served with long term advantage only if the whole of this country's potential continues to be used. This calls for the retention of our rural industries in a buoyant condition as we come through a very difficult world situation. It is only by the attainment of that which we seek so keenly that we will arrive at a balanced population throughout the community. In other words, we must accentuate that the most undesirable move towards cities would be detrimental over all to the way of life of the community as a whole. Consideration has to be given to the distribution of potential income earning capacity via secondary and primary industries, but consideration must be given also to a well balanced basis for that which we are all seeking, that is, a life of happiness and cooperation as a community in an environment which has consideration for all sections of the community. I feel that here today we are doing something of real importance in endeavouring to maintain a situation wherein we retain a balanced economy. 
I was very impressed with the principles and attitudes enunciated by the addendum to the second reading as proposed by  Senator Kane.  There is much merit in the thinking that has gone into these expressions of opinion as to what should be done. The members of the Democratic Labor Party are to be commended for their references to these problems and for their presentation of what in their opinion would be desirable. I hope that the Government will look very closely at what has been set out by  Senator Kane  and his colleagues in respect of the problems before us. However, I feel that in certain parts of the amendments there could be improvements. There could be less detail in expressing the principles contained in the amendment. I look forward in the continuation of this debate to a consideration of these amendments and to seeing whether we can, by accepting attitudes and thinking which could well be referred to the Government for its consideration, achieve that which we all seek to achieve: A better condition for the rural industries of Australia. I support both Bills. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. I refer to the splendid evidence of Commonwealth and State co-operation in the decision to send a team of experts from the Commonwealth Department of Shipping and Transport to South Australia to investigate and to help combat extensive pollution from oil and algae on our southern coastline. Can this co-operative effort between the Commonwealth and the State in the preservation of the environment be interpreted as the initiation of a continuing constructive and desirable approach to enviromental control? 
I want to indicate my wholehearted support for the amendment which was moved by  Senator Prowse  which is:  that the Government in its Budget consideration should give earnest attention to retiring in the field of estate duties. 
In my opinion, there is no more illiberal form of taxation than the impost of death duties. I believe that it is far better for one to have to meet a heavier incidence of taxation during one's lifetime than to have, after one's death, usurpation of that which has been accumulated through income on which income tax has been paid. I speak as one of many thousands of people in Australia who have family businesses, farms or interests in various spheres and whose biggest worry is: 'How do we continue to carry on with succession and probate duties hanging over us?' Here I am referring particularly to Commonwealth estate duty. 
I believe that succession and probate duties are among the most invidious forms of taking from people that which has been attained during their lifetime and on which they have paid taxes. People who have worked all their lives in order to get their farms or businesses into a better condition leave their beneficiaries, perhaps already faced with a severe problem of liquidity, unable to carry on because of death duties. Some enterprises may be able io continue but obviously not with the same buoyancy as before. This, as I have said, is usurpation. 
I have spoken at length on this matter previously. I have expressed my point of view with directness and with feeling because I believe that in a country where thrift and individual enterprise should be encouraged in order to accomplish those things which in the long term will be to the benefit of both the individual and succeeding generations, there should not be this sort of impost which leads to an inability to maintain society in the way in which we seek to maintain it. In my opinion there has to be a facility for the small roan to carry on, observing the principles of thrift, so that he can get somewhere in his own right. What he has built should not be taken away when he dies. We should not place ourselves in the situation where only monopolies will count; where volume production will be the only criterion for viable survival of private enterprises which are so important to our way of life. 
 I wish to make a few observations in respect of this Bill. There are always  2  sides to any question; that this is so is acknowledged in this Bill. The popular side of the question tonight is the acclaim for the core of the Bill which appears in section  66b.  Sub-clause  (1.)  states: 
It  is  unlawful to  engage  in the practice of resale price maintenance. 
Sub-clause  (2.)  states: 
Subject to this Part, a person (in this section calledthe supplier') engages in the practice of resale price maintenance  if - 
the supplier  makes  it known to a second person that  he win  not supply goods to the second person unless the second person agrees to sell those goods at a price not less than a  price  specified by the supplier. 
The other side of the question is found in clause  66k  which, where the public interest would be served, provides exemptions from the rigid provision to which I initially referred. Obviously this legislation has wide appeal. Shooting at some of the practices and policies of trade and industry is currently a highly popular sport and it is being widely acclaimed. But I feel impelled to issue a word of warning in respect of these attitudes. I believe that great care, skill and responsibility have to be calmly exercised by government to ensure that fire aimed at the marauding fox does not carry on or ricochet to the destruction of the goose that lays the golden egg. 
There seems to be a spirit abroad that all the ills of the community so far as trade and commerce are concerned can be cured by the unrestrained, unbridled and vicious competition. I do not subscribe to this attitude. Reasonable competition is a necessary element in the free enterprise system; indeed it is basic to it and I support it. But competition which is encouraged to run riot attacks the very roots of stable industry and commerce. The adverse chain effects of destruction of stability and confidence must be pondered. I am sure that if they are given the long term consideration to which they are entitled the current clamour and acclaim for the sweeping removal of some practices now pursued in trade and commerce could well be dampened down. Collective bargaining and association within trade and industry are equally as moral and honourable, in my opinion, as collective bargaining by labour in trade union activity. 
I must point out that efficiency and viability are not necessarily the closed prov ince of big business.  1  have my reservations regarding legislation which could have a tendency or propensity to allow or to encourage big business to become bigger to the exclusion of small business. In many instances the vulnerability of small business lies in the comparative lack of financial reserves. Small business cannot withstand the unfair onslaughts of price cutting by the big operators. When the little chap is removed, monopoly moves in and ultimately there is far less competition, if any at all. When competition is abolished through the build-up of organisations, in the process the independent small man is lost and the activities of commerce are placed in the hands of a few. This is the ideal condition under which social istically inclined governments could nationalise industry and I am sure that we in Australia do not want the nationalisation of industry. But I believe that we are doing many things which provide the conditions and backgrounds most conducive to more and more take overs by big business, until finally we will reach the stage where business will be in the hands of only a few and so will become an interest of government. We could lose out on the good things which free enterprise has done for our economy because we have not retained a width of competition. 
Because I feel pretty keenly about these aspects of intrusion into the carefully thought out policies of trade and industry, I view with some concern the claims for new rigid attitudes which are not capable of being varied from time to time in the light of experience. We must act very carefully to ensure that although the things we do may have a momentary appeal, in the long term they will not have a detrimental effect upon the public interest which we seek to serve. 
-I am still not clear. Is the onus on the manufacturer? Under what clause of this Bill is the manufacturer able to say to a person:I cannot supply you with this low number"? Otherwise,' a manufacturer could be asked by a hundred different retailers to supply a small number of a certain thing, 500 of which had been supplied to a given retailer. 
 Briefly, I seek some clarification of the provisions contained in proposed new section  66d 1.)  which states:  a  person shall be deemed to withhold the supply of  goods to  another person if - 
herefuses  or fails to  supply those goods to, or as requested by, the other person. 
I refer to a manufacturer who receives from a large emporium an order for say 500 refrigerators of a certain type, with certain variations. If those 500 units are supplied by the manufacturer and if another person requires  3  or  4  units under the same conditions as attached to the supply of the 500 units, is refusal to supply those  3  or  4  units deemed to be withholding supply under the provisions of paragraph (a) of proposed new section  66d(1.)? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise in this chamber. In governmental consideration of the problems of the grape growing and wine making industries will the fact be  borne in mind that importations of brandy for the year ended February this year amounted to 241,650 proof gallons? As the grape equivalent of this volume of brandy is 7,551 tons and as there are grave doubts as to the ability of the local wine industry to absorb rising grape production, will action be taken to minimise brandy imports? 
I will be very brief. I commend the Government for having acted in the way it did in the time of crisis that confronted the Shepparton Preserving Co. Ltd. The canning industry is so much an integral part of the fruit growing industry that when we see difficulties being experienced by the canners we have a radiation out of adverse conditions. When we look at the canning industry we do not wonder why at times it suffers from acute liquidity problems. In the first place there is very heavy initial capital outlay on buildings and equipment and then there is the need to incorporate into the factory processing line the most modern, efficient and time and labour saving machinery available. These things cost money. 
A processor has to pay for his cans, labels and cartons at the time of processing, and at that time the growers require at least part payment to meet their expenses. So the processors have huge stocks of processed fruits on hand. A lot of money has gone out to reach that stage and a liquidity problem exists. I commend the Government very warmly for its action in this matter. This precedent having been created, I feel that similar cannery organisations in other States will benefit in the same way. I know from experience at home in South Australia that there is need there for similar assistance in this vitally important industry in a like manner to that which has been received by the Shepparton Preserving Co. I am gratified to see a breakthrough in this direction. I support the Bill. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has a determination yet been made in respect to Commonwealth financial assistance for the proposed South Australian pipeline project on 
Eyre Peninsula to reticulate water to the Kimba area from the Polda Basin? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, concerns the existing duty on wine. Is it a fact that clearances of wine for local consumption fell by 8.9 per cent in the September quarter of last year compared with the same quarter in 1969, by 8 per cent in the December quarter, by 10.5 per cent in the 
March quarter and 17.2 per cent in the June quarter this year? Is it a fact that these percentage reductions constitute a setback of some 5 million gallons of wine sales? As the inexorable effect of this situation will be extreme hardship for thousands of grape growers throughout Australia, and in the light of the relevant statement in the Budget Speech that 'the problems currently affecting some growers in the industry are well recognised and will be kept under review by Commonwealth, State and industry authorities in conjunction with the Australian Agricultural Council', I ask: Will urgent consideration be given to the abolition of this crippling excise on wine? 
1 direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the heavy dependence of South Australia on the wafers of the River Murray through the whole gamut of the State's water needs, and the critical situation which in present circumstances would confront that State in a year of drought in the water sheds of the River Murray, can the Minister inform the Senate of the present position in respect to negotiations for the construction of the proposed Dartmouth Dam? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts, been drawn to a article appearing in this morning's 'Canberra Times' in which the Goodradigbee Shire Council health surveyor,  Mr K.  Kirwan, claims that Canberra's sewerage outfalls are responsible for the present pollution danger to the Murrumbidgee river system? 1 ask the Minister whether he will inform me of what action the Government proposes to take to arrest and overcome this alleged pollution danger? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a recent statement ascribed to  Colonel McArthur,  the  Chairman  of the Australian Meat Board, in which he suggested that the present high meat prices and strong level of export demand opened the door to the wholesale production and sale of synthetic substitutes and that it would be apathetic, neglectful and irresponsible to ignore this danger? As one step towards protecting the meat industry, will consideration be given to legislating that no substance other than animal protein can be termed 'meat'? 
 I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he is aware of the very unsatisfactory condition of the loose surface main runway at the Parafield Aerodrome in Adelaide. In view of the hazardous nature of the main runway in its present form will the Minister give urgent consideration to. having this runway re-formed and bitumenised? 
 The matter being discussed falls into 2 distinct parts. On the one hand we have the constitutional aspects of the appointment of Assistant Ministers, and on the other hand we have the practical needs for the appointment of Assistant Ministers. Both this afternoon and on Tuesday evening  Senator Willesee  referred to what he described as constitutional doubts in respect of the appointment of Assistant Ministers. Because of the existence of those doubts he supports quite strongly the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  As far back as 1952 one of the most eminent constitutional lawyers of the land,  Sir Robert  Menzies, the then Prime Minister, backed by his eminent advisers of those days, said that there was no constitutional bar to the appointment of Assistant Ministers. The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  said here on Tuesday that the need for a reference to any body or authority as to the constitutional propriety of establishing the office of Assistant Minister was non-existent. He was backed by the legal opinions which are being offered at the present time to our Ministers. So we have a wealth of eminent constitutional lawyers who say there is no doubt on this matter. I believe that reference to the Committee on Disputed Returns and Qualifications, as suggested by  Senator Murphy,  is unnecessary. 
On the practical side of things the need for the appointment of an Assistant Minister in this place is real. The Assistant Minister would assist in this place the Leader of the Government who has the very onerous work of leading this chamber. As well, he is a member of Cabinet and is, and must be, inundated with the responsibilities which devolve upon his 2 high offices. I feel that his work and the work of the Senate as a whole can be enhanced and improved by the assistance of one competent to assist. So from the point of view of constitutional correctness I have no doubt about the appointments. I see the real need in this place for assistance, particularly for the Leader of the Government. He has a portfolio now which is possibly the most demanding of any portfolio so far as correspondence from the electorate at large is concerned. It is expecting too much from any person to carry the responsibilities of the diverse offices which constitute this gentleman's responsibilities for him not to have assistance such as that proposed. Maybe it is so that there should be further ministerial appointments in this place with a division of work among a greater number, but for the time being it is the considered opinion of the Government that the situation is met by the appointment of Assistant Ministers. I support this contention and, therefore, the motion to take note of the ministerial statement concerning the appointments and I reject the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for  the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts been drawn to reports of a study made by the Chemistry Department of the University of Tasmania concerning pollution of marine life by metals, which suggests that mercury levels in sea food in some Australian waters are already much higher than is desirable? Has the Minister noted the alleged statement of Professor H. Bloom, head of the Chemistry Department of that University, that rain washes a lot of mercury compound into the sea but there is no doubt that the greater part comes from industries and that the Federal Government should learn from similar crises in other countries and take 'urgent and drastic steps' to arrest the pollution? What is the competency of the Commonwealth Government to act in cases such as these? When is it proposed that the Commonwealth Government will give effect within its own Territories to recommendations made in the Senate select committee reports on air and water pollution? 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation indicate whether recent talks in Washington have been favourable to the Australian case in the matter of lifting the ban by the American Civil Aeronautics Board on Qantas Boeing 747B jumbo jets flying the Pacific route? 
There could not be a question of deeper import brought before any parliament than that now before us relating to the Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1970 introduced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  When the honourable senator moved for the second reading of this Bill on 29th April he said: 
The purpose of this Bill is to' abolish the death penalty under the laws of the Commonwealth. The Bill seeks to remove the death penalty, entirely and without qualification, from all Commonwealth Acts, regulations, ordinances and other laws. It is a simple measure which, in effect, substitutes the penalty of life imprisonment for the punishment of death wherever death is the existing penalty for a crime. At present the only domestic crime in Federal Territories for which the death penalty is retained is murder, although on a Commonwealth basis treason is still punishable  by  death, as are certain crimes committed on aircraft. If this Bill becomes law, as I hope  it  will, the Commonwealth will no longer be capable under the criminal code of committing official homicide. 
There we have very clearly and succinctly set out the purposes of this Bill. As I said when I rose, no question of deeper import to human beings than this could be presented. 
Inherent in all human beings is the desire to retain life. This is basic to our nature. We must consider the fact that the person injured to the point of death is deprived of all that he or she may have hoped to achieve within the setting of our Christian beliefs and expectations. This is of greater moment than any other possible interest in human life. The question then arises: What do we do via legislation to protect life? Within the framework of law there has to be embodied and enshrined a protection of the human being's greatest asset. I have read widely in relation to this matter. I have sought to determine what is in the best interests of human beings in our society in a situation when life is taken. I feel that we have to retain within the framework of the law a deterrent against those who would cold bloodedly take the life of others. In my opinion premeditated murder is something which should call down upon the perpetrator the loss of that which is, in the thinking of the perpetrator the most important aspect of his being - his own existence. 
Nobody would take pleasure in human indignity or suffering but the ghoulish. Noone likes to see human life destroyed. In a Christian community the means of grace to attain to eternal life is something of absolute paramount importance. As I see the situation, there should remain on the statute books a deterrent against murder which has been proven beyond every shade of doubt to have been committed by a given person after the circumstances which surround it have been taken into account. There should be in the background legislative provision which will, in the minds of those who look lightly on human life, be a deterrent against inflicting great harm and hurt on individuals. There are degrees in the taking of life. There is the situation in which, in a moment of great stress and heat, things can be done and be regretted in the next moment. There is the situation in which people could go out armed for the purpose of killing for personal gain and there is the situation in which innocent people - children or women - could be subjected to harm and death in a way which I feel has to be met with a rather harsh and strong penalty. 
I have listened with deep attention to  Senator Carrick's  speech. I believe within my own self that provided every possible shade of doubt is removed as to guilt where there has been an anti-society action by a person, in the background on the statute books there should be a provision to do these things which, in the minds of those who premeditate and carry out murder, would be a deterrent from their horrible intent. For these reasons I am opposed to this Bill. 
 Yesterday was an historic and impressive day in the annals of this chamber. The day was marked with a large number of maiden speeches, each of which reflected great credit on the  speaker  and on the State that he represented. I congratulate each of them on making really excellent contributions to this Budget debate. 1 was especially impressed wim  Senator Bonner's  contribution and his deeply sincere plea for greater understanding and compassion for his people. I feel that all honourable senators would have a sense of pride that we have in our assembly one who is a member of the Aboriginal race, one who has an understanding of the problems of the people of his race in particular, and one who has shown in his speech last night a bigness in his approach to these problems. I wish him well as a representative of Queensland in this Senate and as one who knows intimately the problems of those people who form his background. I repeat that I am proud, as I am sure every member of the Senate is proud, to have  Senator Bonner  with us. 1 would like to take this opportunity of heartily congratulating the  President (Sir Mangus Cormack)  on his elevation to the highest office this chamber has in its power to bestow. 1 have no doubt that under his guidance the dignity and decorum of this place will be well maintained, indeed enhanced. 
Certainly; marked with a completely impartial attitude to all members in this chamber. He has at all times stoutly guarded the rights, privileges and procedures of the Senate. 1 trust that this institution will grow in strength and influence under his direction. I wish him well, both in health and happiness and in the discharge of the high duties of his office. In like vein, may I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy President,  on your preferment to the position of  Chairman  of Committees of the Senate.  1  think it is a good thing to look in retrospect from time to time and evaluate the results of past policies of governments, their financial . administrations and the collective effort of all the people of Australia in attaining objectives which continually progress and grow bigger with the passage of time. As one looks back one's spontaneous assessment must be that we are living in a pretty wonderful country. Sometimes I wonder how many of us really appreciate this. For a country of  12.8  million people to be able to have a national Budget of some $8,833m is a major achievement, but if a comparison is made with any country in the world it is realised that the ability to have a Budget of these dimensions is not something that has occurred of its own volition. I am sure it is the direct result of a responsible approach by the people of Australia generally to their various activities, and particularly of good government over the last 20-odd years. But we cannot expect our prosperity and progress to continue unless we look to the future with a high degree of realism in a number of matters in this era of great change and great challenge and, indeed, foundation laying of a really great nation. 
I want to make a few general observations in regard to our economy and leave the detailed aspects of the Budget to the more appropriate time of Committee consideration. I refer to the fact that inflationary tendencies within our economy, present and potential, fairly give me the horrors. Here we have a danger which every one of us, through the whole gamut of society, must be aware of and to which we all must be very sensitive. If we are not prepared to toe the line in the commonsense, realistic way, then the progress we have made over the past couple of decades simply cannot be expected to continue. We cannot live in economic isolation away from our competitor countries in trade. We will not live for very long if we think we can curl up in a little isolated cocoon, ignore the business bases of international trade and have our own little Utopia all to our little selves. It just will not work that way. 
So I draw attention to a few things that 1 think are fundamental to our national economic and personal well being. In the first instance, I commend the basic principles on which this Budget has been drawn up. It is essentially a Budget framed to meet a situation in which inflationary forces in Australia are of a strength and character which could be a potential danger to the whole economy. If ever there has been a time in our economic history when an absolutely responsible and realistic attitude has to. be taken to keep our financial structure on an even keel, that time is surely now. The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  has acted cautiously, I think, in framing this Budget. 1 do not believe that it can be described as repressive or harsh, but it has inherent in it a clear realisation that Australia is in the grip of serious inflationary pressures which simply have to be arrested. It is high time that we recognised that we have been singularly fortunate in Australia to have encompassed over the past couple of decades a period of outstanding national development, without the adverse experience of so called stagflation - a situation experienced by some other countries of comparative stagnation of the economy but at the same time with a high degree of inflation and simultaneously a high level of unemployment. This posit on has marked some overseas economies - powerful economies. 
We have gone ahead steadily, solidly, with full employment and with a degree of inflation which is outstandingly lower in comparison with other developing countries. These conditions have not been fortuitous. They do not just happen to have prevailed. They are the direct results of good planning and management of our financial affairs and structure generally, and governmental decisions which have been beneficial to economic growth. I give full marks to the Government for its performance through the years and to our present Treasurer.  Mr Snedden,  for what I regard as a highly responsible attitude to the country's finances, as indicated in the Budget which we are now considering. As the Treasurer points out, until last financial year inflation had not been a matter for serious concern to us for almost a decade. Through years of rapid development, ' in common with the experience of all rapidly developing economies throughout the world, there had been a degree of inflation, though comparatively less than that experienced by, say, Japan and West Germany, which have had quite a fantastic development rate. 
Over the 5 years from 1965 to 1969 average weekly earnings in Australia rose by 6.5 per cent each year and consumer prices rose by 3.2 per cent. During these years we had a steady increase in population, with unemployment never exceeding 1.5 per cent of the total work force. These figures demonstrate that we can have sound economic growth and continuous full employment with only a moderate degree of cost and price inflation. I repeat that average weekly earnings increased by  6.5  per cent while consumer prices rose by  3.2  per cent. However, in the last 2 years cost and price inflation has gained a rather frightening momentum. This has not been the fault of the Government but is due, in the main, to forces outside its jurisdiction. Average weekly earnings rose by  8.9  per cent in  1969-70  and by over  10  per cent last year. This led to a  3.2  per cent rise in the consumer price index in  1969-70  and a  4.8  per cent rise last year. The rate of increase in prices in the June quarter of this year was in the  6  per cent range. 
In speaking along these lines I do not wish to give the impression that I regard wage increases as being the only factor in a given situation, but inordinate wage demands certainly have had a major bearing on the whole matter. I want to see the highest wage levels the economy can provide, but the wage has to be effective in purchasing power. We should not lose sight of the vital importance of productivity in relation to wage rises because if we do, inflation, with all its evils and hardships, will no doubt ensue. Therefore it is not to be wondered at that the Government is concerned about the present general situation within the economy and that the red warning lights are flashing. 
I hope it is not thought that  1  am exaggerating the situation. However, I do want to underline the fact that there are certain basic things that we have to take heed of right now or be very sorry about somewhat later. A general effort over the whole of the populace of Australia is called for to meet the present situation and to ensure that we continue to progress as we have progressed in the last  20  years, with consistent improvement to the benefit of all. The rather frightening trend of last year simply has to be halted now. If it is allowed to continue the unavoidable result will be increased economic and social hardship to many people, particularly those on fixed incomes, and jeopardy to our export industries, which are trying to increase their overseas sales in extremely competitive markets. The effect on our rural industries would be the same as placing the last straw on the camel's back. 
It is a simplification of the situation to say . that the whole matter boils down to the fact that it is not so important how fat our pay packets, may be but what those pay packets will buy. It seems to me that the public philosophy is developing that we can isolate ourselves from the competitive pressures within overseas economies and that we can afford prematurely to raise our standards of living beyond our internal capacity to remain competitive with other countries selling the goods we produce. That is surely a short-sighted view. It will be far better to pursue policies which retain the purchasing power within our personal and national earnings and give the competitive ability to increase our exports of both primary and secondary origin. I would like to see more people travelling overseas. In that way they would be able to note and evaluate for themselves how comparatively well off we are as a people. It would underline the need for all of us to retain this position. 
I do not believe that governments can achieve all of the things which are necessary to ensure a stable economy. It is the obligation of everybody to act responsibly and fairly. We should not close our eyes to the fact that over the last few years productivity in industry has been showing a growth rate of  3  per cent a year but wage costs per unit of output have increased by some  9  or  10  per cent. I firmly believe that it would be better to have a gradual improvement without what I have referred to as inordinate demands or demands which are not realistic in respect to what can be comfortably and reasonably carried. We have to ensure our ability to do the things that we all aspire to do while ensuing that we do not find our situation weakened through an inability to balance our receipts with what we are required to expend from those receipts. 
It seems to me that both management and labour have yet to learn to operate responsibly and effectively "in a full employment economy. I think that the whole community - capital and labour alike - has to realise this. There is much in our background in terms of real economic progress in the last  20  years or so. We are entitled to be proud of the progress we have made and of the betterment' it has meant to our living standards generally. But I think we need to aspire to a greater sense of national pride and responsibility as we look to the future or we will lose the benefits of past achievements, lt is worth noting the real progress we have made, which is reflected in our budgetary capacity over the last 20 years. Our nation had a revenue of $ 1,683m in 1950-51 and an expenditure of a like amount. Five years later - in 1955-56 - the revenue rose to $2,367m and the expenditure rose to $2,537m. By 1960-61 we had steadily but surely increased to $3, 192m in our revenue and $3,224m in our expenditure. By 1965- 66 the revenue had increased to $4,767m and the expenditure to $5,022m. There was a big jump between 1965-66 and 1970-71. In the latter period the revenue rose to $8,030m and the expenditure to $8, 105m. We all know that it has been estimated that the expenditure this year will be $8,833,268,000. Surely that is something to be proud of. That is a reflection of the progress that has been made in our economy through the years. Without this progress the figures I have just quoted could never have eventuated. 
Our export trade is basic to this growth. It is essential that within our cost structure we remain competitive with overseas markets so that our exports will continually rise. On an f.o.b. basis our exports have grown from $2,926m in 1966-67 - 5 years ago- to$4,221m in 1970-71. In 1966, 68.48 per cent of our overseas earnings came from direct exports, 18.96 per cent from invisible credits and 12.57 per cent from net apparent capital inflow. In 1970- 71, 62.13 per cent of our overseas earnings came from exports, 17.5 per cent from invisible credits and 20.31 per cent from capital inflow. I quote those figures to indicate that the hard core of actual export income has in that 5-year period actually declined by 6.35 per cent, that is, it has come down from 68.48 per cent to 62.13 per cent. 
As a percentage, yes, butI think it is of significance. Invisible credits are down slightly but dependence on capital inflow has increased by 7.74 per cent. I have never been opposed to an inflow of overseas capital investment. I think it has been the very mainspring, as it were, of our ability to develop our own resources with the rapidity and desirability that has been the case in recent times. My purpose in referring to these figures today is to indicate that we must realise our heavy dependence at this period of time on capital inflow in attaining our balance of payments situation and to show the difficulties of the situation. The situation does not give rise to any optimistic ideas that we can allow out costs to escalate merrily on the home economy and still expect our balance of payments via exports not to be seriously detrimented. It indicates we cannot expect to work fewer hours for more pay and still be able to sell increasing volumes of our goods on overseas markets at prices necessary to obtain those markets. We lean too heavily on anticipated capital inflow to keep our balance of payments situation soundly based. For these reasons I feel that we should not countenance the idea of a 35 hour working week and 4 weeks annual leave at this stage of our development. 
The overall cost of introducing an additional week's leave would be between $350m and $400m a year if production were maintained by recruiting additional labour and between $500m and $550m a year if production were maintained by working additional overtime. The corresponding costs of introducing a 35 hour week would be between $ 1,500m and $2,000m a year if production were made up through recruiting additional labour and between $2,200m and $3,000m a year if it were made up through overtime. Our economy could not afford cost increases of those dimensions. Our export potential would be vitally damaged, and I have no doubt that inflation would run riot. 
In his excellent speech last night  Senator Carrick  referred to a very important aspect of finance between the States and the Commonwealth when he said - this has a deep appeal - that the State spending the money should be the body which collects the money. I must point out to him that whilst this is so right, we must look at it against the background of the well being of the nation to ensure that there are common standards throughout the nation, be it in education, in the provision of roads and transport, water reticulation, hospitalisation and all these things. Consideration has to be given to those States which are somewhat lesser endowed in natural resources than are others. So as we look today at the payments being made to States - they represent about one-third of the whole Budget - I feel that by the system we have we are ensuring the background for our national ability to develop and to maintain common standards in a way which would not apply were we to pursue the idea that all States raise their own revenue for their own purposes and then spend it. This would not lead to the situation we enjoy now. I say this as a resident of one of the less populous and lesser endowed States in comparison to other States in this nation. 
I wish to refer to an industry in South Australia which is of real importance to that State, namely, the grape growing and wine making industry. In South Australia we produce between 70 per cent and 75 per cent of Australia's wine and brandy. I am deeply concerned at the serious downturn in Australia's wine sales since the imposition of the 50c per gallon excise on wine which was imposed in the 1970-71 Budget. To place the current situation in the right perspective it is necessary to take into account the wholesale sales of wine since 1955-56 and the growth rate percentage through the years. 
In 1955-56 wholesale sales of wine in Australia amounted to about 10,000,000 gallons. By the following year there was an increase of 5.8 per cent. I do not want to bore the Senate with too many figures but we can trace the growth rate back to 1956 when the industry was having a rather difficult time. The growth rate in 1957-58 was 1.3 per cent; in 1958-59 it was 2.8 per cent; in 1959-60 it was 3.1 per cent; in 1960-61 it fell by .5 per cent; in 1 96 i -62 it increased by 2.3 per cent; and in 1963- 64 it increased by 6.8 per cent. I want to look closely now at the immediate past 5 years. In 1965-66 there was a growth rate in sales on the Australian market of 10.7 per cent; in 1966-67 it was 14.4 per cent and in 1967-68 it was 12.8 per cent. By that time sales amounted to 19,823,000 gallons. In 1968-69 there was a further increase of 1 1 .2 per cent, and in 1 969-70 to the point at which the excise was imposed the growth rate was 10.1 per cent. At that time we were selling 24,385,000 gallons of wine. 
Taking those last 5 years from 1965-66 to 1969-70 the average annual growth rate was 11.8 per cent. If we accept an average growth rate of 10 per cent we can expect in this current year to achieve a sales figure of 26,823,000 gallons of wine. Looking ahead at the sales picture, estimated sales in 1971-72, using this 10 per cent growth rate, would total 29,505,000 gallons. This would appear to be in line with the assessment of revenue by the Treasurer in a full year after the imposition of the excise. The estimated amount was then SI 5m but the actual return from this excise was only Slim. That indicates the decline in sales since the imposition of the charge. 
I have been informed by what I regard as authoritative sources in respect of clearances of wine on the local market that sales fell by 8.9 per cent in the September quarter last year compared with the same quarter in 1969, by 8 per cent in the December quarter, by 10.5 per cent in the March quarter this year and by 17.2 per cent in the June quarter this year. These percentage reductions constitute a set-back of some 4.9 million gallons in projected wine sales taking into account actual sales when compared with the previous year. A direct loss of 2.4 million gallons in wine sales has occurred. 
 This loss has occurred in the Budget year subsequent to the 1970 Budget. 
 The actual sales in 1970 were 24,385,000 gallons. One has to view this matter also with an eye to the stocks of wine being held at the present time. It is usual for the industry to plan about 3 years ahead in wine sales. At the present time actual stocks held in Australia total 63,169,000 gallons. There has been a rise through the years. For instance, in 1968 51,379,000 gallons were held in stock. But with the expectancy in the industry of continuing sales as applied before the 1970 Budget the current stocks are at the level of 63,169,000 gallons which is a lot of wine. This year it is anticipated that the figure could be 68 million gallons. At the moment, inherent in this situation there is a supply of wine on hand which, given a large vintage this year, could really embarrass the processors and reflect very adversely on the grape growers' ability to dispose of their perishable commodity. 
Grapes are not like other rural products which can be stored. As I say, they are perishable. They have to be processed for one use only and that is the making of beverage wines or for distillation. They have no other use. Certainly, some variety of grapes can be dried but the wine grape as such has only one use and that is the production of wine. The levy of 50c a gallon on wine I have always regarded as a very vicious imposition. This is shown when related to production costs in the industry and the increase in the price of raw materials to the processors arising from the impost. On the basis of a yield of 140 gallons of wine a ton of grapes, the increase in basic cost to the wine maker per ton of grapes is $70. This $70 is more than the average return to the grower per ton of wine grapes sold over the whole scale of varieties produced in non-irrigated and irrigated areas. Overnight, the price of the raw material to the processor doubled. I recall very vividly that in 1964-65 in South Australia we had surplus crops which the wineries could not accept. A special pool was set up to handle the surplus grapes. They were processed into brandy and ultimately sold. At that point the growers were paid for their production. 
That was in 1964- 65. At that time in South Australia we had an arrangement on a governmental basis whereby an authority was set up to determine what the wine maker could afford to pay per ton of grapes and the need of the grower in regard to price to make his section of the industry viable. The Prices Commissioner of South Australia was chairman of the authority. Representatives of the makers and the growers would con. suit with the Prices Commissioner, indicate their cost of production, the prospect of disposal of the products and then work out a reasonable price to be paid for certain varieties of grapes in the subsequent vintage. In those times we found by agreement between manufacturers and suppliers of raw material that a few dollars a ton - say $4 or $5 a ton - would be a maximum possible increase. Here we have an imposition of $70 a ton which has created a crisis in the grape industry over-night in one fell swoop. Is it any wonder that the industry is so worried now, more particularly the growers who depend for their outlets on co-operative wineries? A very large part of our industry's production comes from the River Murray area. Cooperatives Wineries are the main recipients of the vintages of the soldier settlers and other people who grow grapes in that area. Because of the incidence of the tax in the flagon trade and in the wholesale trade - which is the bulk of wine sales and which releases the production in volume - we find that through lack of sales the co-operatives have more in their storage areas now than they have had for a long time. Orders are not coming in, particularly for blending wines. We have a situation of real hardship lying ahead for the growers who supply those co-operatives and who rely for their livelihood on the disposal of their production by these organisations. 
Yes, on average, through all varieties. There are some varieties like Cabarnet Sauvignon and Riesling which enjoy a very high price. But the figure for a cross section of all varieties - the production in volume of the lower priced wines - is $70 a ton. That amount would be somewhat more than the average overall receipts for the grapes. The wine industry has a very proud history. It was established by the pioneers in the wine growing areas. Generations battled to build up their business. The family companies have not been dividend payers; they have been builders. I recall vividly a statement by the general manager of the biggest wine-making organisations in South Australia. He said: 'We are not dividend payers; we are builders. We plough back into the industry all that we make'. From observation I know that this is so. These people have been nation builders in their own areas. They have battled through difficult times, without government assistance, for many years. They are ruggedly independent. They have planned for the future in a solid manner. 
In the 5 or 6 years prior to the 1970 Budget there had been buoyancy in the industry. That buoyancy gave them an attractive income, an ability to expand and so on. The industry has not been an easy game for many years.. To see its progress arrested, as it has been by the imposition of the excise, does seem to me to demonstrate culpability on the part of the advisers who suggested that that was an opportune time to impose a charge on the industry. Thinking of the governmental involvement in war service land settlement schemes and of the financial obligations of individual settlers who grow grapes, I can see arising a most unsatisfactory situation in which, through an endeavour to obtain revenue, increased cost could well come into the picture. The imposition of the duty could cost the Government much more than it could ever hope to receive from the industry through the imposition of a duty of 50c on each gallon of wine. 
Australia is not a large wine-drinking nation. Australian consumption is 1.96 gallons per person per year. In a French publication I have here the figure appears at 1.65. If we take the number of bottles consumed per person and if we consider that possibly one out of four people would take a glass of wine, that consumption works out at about 4 oz a wine a day. 
It works out at about a bottle a week. The situation in other wine-producing countries is quite different. Italy has a per capita consumption of 25.93 gallons a year; France 24.39 gallons; the Argentine 19.22 gallons; Spain 13.63 gallons; and Germany 3.36 gallons. Germany is noted for its fairly high beer consumption, but it consumes twice as much wine as Australia and we are regarded as a fairly heavy consumer of beer by world comparisons. Austria has a per capita consumption of 7.33 gallons of wine per year. 
On this list of 45 countries there is no figure for the USSR or for the Democratic Republic of East Germany. 
 As it is the wish of honourable senators on my left to have these figures incorporated in Hansard, with the concurrence of honourable senators I incorporate them. 

<graphic href="049232197109093_32_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197109093_33_1.jpg"></graphic>

The endeavours of the wine industry to promote wine sales in Australia have been positive. There is a levy on fresh grapes, the proceeds from which are used for promotion purposes. In 1970 $525,000 was expended and it is expected that this year $518,000 will be expended. This amount is raised by the growers and is expended by the Wine Board, together with government assistance. There is a real contribution by growers to furthering the interests of their industry. They have not thrown up their hands in defeat but have really tried to improve the industry. In spite of all their efforts sales are decreasing and worry about the future and their ability to cope with what lies ahead is rising. 
The grape industry is one of the few rural industries which have been viable in recent years. There is every opportunity for it to remain viable. I hope that the incidence of the excise on wines will be reviewed. I hope that the tax will be abolished!. I can see no justification for it when we compare the detriment that is being done to the industry with the actual gain to the Treasury. When one takes into account the loss of income tax from the growers through their reduced ability to sell their grapes on a buoyant market, the income of the wineries and the payment of taxes on that income, and the cost of collection, one finds that there is not much difference between those losses and costs and the actual excise levied. These factors do not reveal a national requirement to inhibit the growth and well being of an industry as has been done in this case. 
Before concluding I refer to a very laudable action being taken by the Victorian Government in its assistance to and encouragement of industry to move to country areas to overcome the congestion in and the rising costs of urban development in mammoth population concentrations. An article which appeared in Tuesday's 'Australian' stated: 
Victorian Government 'salesmen' will approach 20,000 Melbourne industrialists individually in the next 4 or 5 years to persuade them to shift their plants to the country. 
The prime target will be firms that employ up to about 50 people and are engaged in textiles, light engineering, footwear and other manufacturing. 
The first to get a call will be those whose buildings are in the path of freeways . . . 
I think this is a very constructive approach to a major problem in our society. In this vast country there is a concentration of population in comparatively few centres. Our cities are becoming so big and so clogged up by the problems of transport and the provision of services, such as water supply, power reticulation and sewerage, that in the process of attempting to cope with those problems they are getting right away from attending to the quality of life, the betterment of the environment and so on. We are paying big money, directly and indirectly, to overcome the problems which huge concentrations of population have inherent in them. 
I believe that it is better to look at policies such as this one which has been enunciated by the Victorian Government, namely, to have towns and cities set up in areas in which it will be cheaper to provide facilities for both industry and living and which will provide a better setting in which people may live. In fact, in the present very strong state of the national economy, the implementation of such a policy may lead to a betterment of the individual's position generally. After all, why are we here? Are we not here to lead a life happily and healthily? At the moment we are concentrating people in cities in an unhealthy and costly way when we should be giving greater consideration to decentralisation in a practical way both for reasons of economics and in the interests of human wellbeing and betterment. 
 I have no knowledge of whether the Victorian Government proposes to give up any of its city improvement projects. I am just pointing out that, instead of concentrating population in cities, we ought to give consideration to decentralisation in a practical way which would be of benefit generally. 1 have pleasure in supporting the Budget. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that there are trade associations in some States whose members are manufacturers and distributors of commodities subject to price control? As these associations do not come within the category of associations which fix the price of their products in horizontal agreements, will consideration be given to their exemption from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act in amending legislation which may currently be contemplated? Will provision be made for such exemption to remain as long as the commodity remains under State price control? 
I  direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Firstly, has the South Australian Government registered objection to the Minister to possible extensions of the Adelaide Airport at West Beach beyond its present boundaries. 
Secondly, are alternative sites being investigated as a venue for a new airport for Adelaide which could cater for international traffic? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity of representative of the Treasurer. Is an Australian investor in a local mining enterprise who purchases shares which he subsequently sells at a profit required to pay tax on the increment received, and is he subject to provisional tax on that increment? Is an overseas investor who purchases shares in the same enterprise allowed to repatriate the proceeds, including profit, without attracting Australian tax? If this is the case, does it not constitute a serious anomaly, wherein local risk investment is discouraged, and does it not militate against ultimate increased ownership by Australians of Australian mining enterprises? 
This question, with slight variations, has been posed to me previously. The basic answer is that the income tax law provides that the assessable income of a taxpayer shall include profits , arising from the sale of any property acquired for the purpose of profit-making by sale, or from the carrying out of any profit-making undertaking or scheme. As this provision applies equally to residents and non-residents of Australia, where the relevant tests are satisfied, there is no question of an Australian resident who buys and sells shares in Australian companies for profit-making purposes being placed at a disadvantage as compared with his overseas counterpart. 
 The matter of urgency which is now being debated and which was brought forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  is: 
The implications for Australia of the world population explosion. 
We are indebted to  Senator Murphy  for introducing this subject. It is salutary and timely that we should debate a matter of this nature tonight, realising that in our own activities in Australia there has been an alerting to and an awareness of the situation in respect of the environment. I am happy to note that this has occurred quite definitely in recent years. So. in the context of our own awareness we can note the implications from the world scene generally which are relevant to us. 
Among the problems that confront the world today, there is none more pressing than those associated with the preservation of the human environment. It is good to see that in international conventions these days there is deep and wide discussion of where we are heading in an overall context in respect of maintaining the environment of the whole world and the atmosphere surrounding it while pursuing the activities that we must pursue in providing for the requirements of our population. 1 believe that implicit in this matter, as far as tha implications for our country are concerned, is the need for an assessment of where we are going in respect of attaining a desirable and sustainable population in the light of worldwide experience. 
I do not believe that this constitutes a matter requiring the consideration of measures to curtail our natural population increase: rather do I believe that it is one requiring careful and far-sighted planning of the management and usage of our natural resources in order to meet the needs of a much larger population than we now have. This is largely a matter of sustaining and improving the overall environment so that our capacity to continue in food production, for instance, is unimpaired; indeed, so that we may play an increasingly important role in food production to meet the demands of over-populated countries. 
The fact is that Australia has one-third of one per cent of the world population. That is a very small part of the whole. Yet we have a continent of 3 million square miles - a huge area - for the production of foodstuffs, mineral wealth and so on. It would seem reasonable to suppose that Australia, as a developed nation with high living standards, is in no danger of developing the sort of situation that exists today in, say, India. But I believe that we need to observe those environmental pitfalls into which we could fall in the usage of our resources. I can see no similar pattern of concern in relation to population numbers here as is applied in many of the less developed countries. 
I feel that we have an obligation to maintain in the best productive capacity the resources which we have in order to assist those countries which are less endowed than is ours. But in my opinion we have no economic problem in respect to the curtailment of natural increase in population in our country. In fact, I believe that we should do all in our power to encourage within Australia a virile and growing population, generated from our numbers, the better to develop our resources. At the same time we should take note of and heed the need to retain environmental situations which are conducive to the happiness and wellbeing of our people while yet, as I say, sustaining the ability to serve other countries in ways in which they need help. Any population explosion in some countries imposes great pressures on land and resources elsewhere and will certainly affect Australia to quite a marked degree. To really appreciate our obligation to the world, insofar as our capacity lies, I think that we have to assist within our capacity in the general wellbeing of the world's population. 
We are confronted with a situation in which there is the need for industrial development and utilisation of resources. I was rather intrigued today as I listened to  Senator Murphy.  I admired his speech in relation to this matter. He was speaking of the need for watching closely population explosion trends in other parts of the world. He said that we have to give more consideration on a worldwide basis to the retention of the environment. But in September 1969, when speaking about the Budget, he said: 
If we are to have a strong Australia, if we are to defend Australia, there is no escape from the fact that we must have these great industries, the great shipbuilding industry, the great electronics industry, the great computer industries, and we must have great cities, and more cities and greater cities. This is how we are going to be strong. We will get the industrial strength and we will be able to protect Australia. 
On the one hand we have the rigid economic requirement within a given economy to make use to the full of resources and at the same time we have this pressing need with care and consideration to go about the utilisation of our resources in such a way as will not be detrimental to our environmental situation. This matter is very complex. It is not easy of solution. I think it calls for a careful balance as between what is economically feasible and what is necessary in the interests of the people as a whole. Where does the obligation lie between retaining capacity for production and the providing of basic wealth for future generations, between handing down our productive capacity in a way which can continue to meet the requirements - as indicated by  Senator Murphy  - which are basic for our wellbeing, our defence, our overall security and ability to maintain high living standards and, at the same time, not intruding unduly into the environmental background. 
With 12 million people in 3 million square miles 1 think we have a great obligation and a moral right to take action in respect to the utilisation of our country and its resources. We are not in a position in which it could be taken that we are not morally entitled to all that we have here with the handful of population which we have  -  0.325 per cent of the world's population. This is indeed a heavy responsibility on our nation. 
I shall turn now to our migrant programme. Maybe in the past we have, to a degree, suffered from economic indigestion through the intake of numbers which, at times, places on our economy difficulties which lead to some concern as to how to encompass the situation in regard to costs and inflationary tendencies. In respect of the population capacity of our nation I am pleased to see that the Government looks to the future with a scientific and a research background which is good to note. Through the Department of Immigration the Government has set up a sudy in relation to the settlement process of migrants, based on a sample of 10,000 newly arrived migrants. From this study we can work out what is the effect on our economy, what absorption capacity we have, the retention of living standards for our population and so on, then study the costs and benefits of immigration. A major national inquiry is being conducted into all phases of population, natural growth rates - both internal and external migration - distribution and the interrelation of demographic social and economic effects of population growth in Australia and of the countries around us with which we have economic, cultural and other associations. Careful research and determination are the background of our attitudes. I have no time at all for the attitude which we bear expressed in Australia that we should not pursue to the uttermost the development of our resources and a continuing increase in our population, although 1 am aware that we must protect our environment as far as we possibly can. We have had inquiries into air pollution and water pollution in Australia. We are looking continuously at whether weaknesses could develop in our attitude towards environmental matters, which weaknesses would be detrimental to the well being of our people. 1 feel that the relevant Senate committees have done a national service in alerting the populace generally to the dangers of pollution which arises from a non-awareness of what could transpire were care and heed not taken of overseas experience in relation to the control of environment. We have 2 rather irreconcilable views. On the one hand there is the desire for continuing economic, industrial and technological growth. On the other hand are the definite finite resources of the earth as a whole and the limits of tolerance to change in the ecosystem. As we view the implications for Australia of the world population explosion we have to give consideration all the time to the part that we would play in transmitting- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health. Apropos of the very welcome announcement made yesterday advising increased Commonwealth assistance for nursing home patients, I wish to ask whether pensioner patients cared for in approved public hospitals will receive the same increased benefits. 
The pensioner hospital benefit arrangements are completely separate from the nursing home benefits scheme. The cost of public ward treatment of pensioners is a joint Commonwealth-State responsibility and, by agreement with the States, the Commonwealth pays S5 a day towards the cost of a pensioner's hospitalisation on the understanding that no charge will be made to pensioners for their hospital care. It is a completely separate thing altogether from the nursing home benefits scheme. Under the new Commonwealth-State financial arrangements the States will receive significantly increased revenues - in fact, they do already - and it is considered that they are well placed to meet their financial responsibilities in respect of services such as public hospital treatment of pensioners - with the Commonwealth supplement, as I have indicated, of $5 a day. 
Is the Minister for Health aware of the heavy losses incurred by hospitals arising from accommodation provided by them for age pensioners? I refer particularly to . district hospitals in country towns where there are no nursing home facilities for the aged. Is consideration being given to increased Commonwealth payments to those hospitals in respect of pensioner patients? Is it not a fact that as an act of acknowledgment of the financial strain being imposed on those hospitals as a result of providing the necessary services to pensioners the South Australian Government has increased its contribution per pensioner? Will the Commonwealth do likewise? 
I thought I made is clear when replying to the honourable senator's original question that he was inadvertently marrying 2 different sets of circumstances. In the financial arrangements between the Commonwealth and the States which result from the annual Premiers Conferences the involvement of the States in providing hospital treatment for pensioners is taken into account. Under the present agreement the Commonwealth gives to each State $5 a day per pensioner in a State hospital provided that the States themselves do not levy a charge on the pensioner. In that context, therefore, the position of the States in this regard is recognised. 
Nursing homes are in a different category. Only about 19 per cent of nursing homes in the Commonwealth are government institutions, the balance being run for profit, on the one hand, or, on the other band, by voluntary organisations which have attracted subsidy at another level for capital expenditure. When the Bill to effect increased payments becomes law - and I am hoping that it will pass this place and the other place with expedition - the Commonwealth will increase the allocation by $1.50. Therefore, the rate will go up $1.50 to $3.50 for ordinary patients and from $5 to $6.50 for intensive care patients. This is a straight out Commonwealth responsibility; it is certainly a straight out Commonwealth contribution to the cost of nursing homes. 
I am aware that when the South Australian Government operated on a $2 for $5 basis it made a State subvention of $1 a day. What that State will do now that the Commonwealth is to increase its payment by $1.50 is a matter for its own decision. 
No doubt that State will make this decision in good faith in the light of the circumstances in which nursing homes are placed in South Australia. 
I direct this question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the inordinate delays being experienced in respect of the construction of Dartmouth Dam and the precarious position South Australia continually experiences in regard to water supply in time of drought, will the Minister make representations to the Minister for National Development for an early investigation into the possibility of providing a nuclear power station in South Australia so located as to enable that State to have a major water desalination plant and a further power base generally? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts been drawn to legislation being introduced in the Victorian Parliament by which penalties for air pollution in that State will be drastically increased as a result of a maximum penalty of $5,000 being imposed for the contravention of any of the provisions of the Clean Air Act and a maximum penalty of $2,000 being imposed for each day the offence continues after conviction or an order by a court? In view of the laudable activities of the States in combating air pollution, as instanced by this proposed legislation, and the need for the Commonwealth to assist in the fight against pollution, will urgent consideration be given to implementation of the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution, including the recommendation that special allowances be granted for the depreciation of equipment which is installed by industry to abate pollution? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to me annual report of the New South Wales Air Pollution Advisory Committee which shows that Sydney's average carbon monoxide air pollution is comparable to the levels of similar pollution in Los Angeles and Chicago in the period 1962-67. which was a mere 4 years ago? In view of the notorious incidence of air pollution in Los Angeles and Chicago, regarded as amongst the worst in any part of the world, will the Minister make urgent representations to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts for immediate consultation with the New South Wales Government to enable such research and action lo be taken as may ensure to Sydney, or in like manner to all of our capital cities, an avoidance of the American cities' dire experience in' respect of air quality? 
I think we are wasting precious time in discussion quite apart from that which is fundamental to the legislation and its effect on the apple and pear industry. The legislation contains some very vital parts which relate to a scheme which has taken 3 years of patient endeavour to achieve. In the process a decision has been reached by which$10m will be provided, if necessary, for the industry in a 5-year period. Any variation of that could ruin the whole basis of legislation and cause harm to the industry. Surely everybody wishes to avoid that. I hope that we can short-circuit further discussionon this matter, because what the Opposition is striving to do now is detrimental to the ability of the legislation to assist the apple and pear industry. I completely support what the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has advocated in reply to the motion before the Committee. 
I  address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the rural community there appears to be widespread uncertainty as to whether those rural producers who qualify for assistance under the terms of the rural reconstruction scheme will continue to have their financial affairs directed through their usual bank or stock firm, or whether there will be a direct Government to producer provision of funds. Can the Minister clarify this position for me? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In the rural community there appears to be widespread uncertainty as to whether those producers who qualify for assistance under the terms of the rural reconstruction scheme will continue to have their financial affairs directed through their usual bank or stock firm, or whether there will be direct government-to-producer provisions of funds. Can the Minister clarify this position for me? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to figures released in Canberra yesterday showing that wine consumption per capita dropped by 2 per cent during the last financial year following the introduction of the 50c a gallon excise charge- - a situation referred to very aptly as 'excise bottles up wine growth'? I hesitate to mention the source of this caption, but I might say that I admire it very much. Is it a fact that, allowing for the population and tourist increase factor, total wine sales rose by only an infinitesimal .01 per cent as against a 10 per cent increase recorded over recent years? As stocks of wine in 1970-71 have increased by 5 per cent over the previous year's stocks and the incidence of detriment to the industry has a critically adverse impact on the bulkproducing grower-owned co-operatives in Australia whose ability to process and store the coming vintage of grower members is now in grave doubt, what action is contemplated by the Government to ensure that grapes will not wither on the vine in the coming vintage? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Will the Minister draw the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise to a statement in the annual report of the Australian Wine Board which was tabled yesterday wherein reference is made to the budgetary estimated revenue from wine excise of Si 2.5m in 1970-71? ls it a fact that the preliminary figures issued by the Treasury show that actual revenue from the tax was $9.25m? Is it a fact that this shortfall in revenue is equal to 6.5 million gallons of wine sales at the 50c per gallon excise? Do not these figures reveal a detriment to the industry warranting an immediate review of the excise imposition with a view to its abolition? 
1 present the report of the Standing Committee on Social Environment on the content, form and presentation of the information section of telephone directories. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move that the Senate take note of the report. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. It concerns the regrouping of divisional officers of the Post Office in rural areas. In view of the important role played by Mt Gambier as the main regional centre of the south east of South Australia and to promote the policy of decentralisation of industry actively being pursued by that city, will urgent consideration be given to retaining the present divisional officers of the Postmaster-General's Department at that centre? 
In addressing a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry I refer to a completely erroneous impression being given in regard to the economic position of the grape growing and wine making industries generally, arising from the singular bouyancy of a few major old established wineries. Will the Government step up its inquiries into the position of the large co-operative wine making concerns, which provide an outlet for thousands of wine growers crops, with a view to determining what action the Government might take to ensure that growers are able to have their grapes processed at the next vintage? Is the Government aware of the deep concern of private growers, particularly in irrigated areas, with regard to the prospects of disposing of their next crop? Is the Government aware of the serious decline in wholesale wine sales and in the flagon trade, which has an especial impact on that section of the industry which is dependent on such trade? 
I address a question to the Minister who represents the Minister for National Development in this place. On 6th October I asked the Minister whether he would make representations to the Minister for National Development concerning the possibility of providing a nuclear power station in South Australia, so located as to enable that State to have a major sea water desalination plant and a further source of power. I ask: Has a reply yet been received from the Minister? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the Australian Consulate at Dili, Portuguese Timor, was closed on 30th June of this year? Was it closed because of the unsatisfactory accommodation which was available to our representative? Were alternative buildings sought before the Consulate was closed and were offers of alternative accommodation rejected? What steps are being taken to maintain and expand our trade relations there? 
Earlier in question time I asked a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation concerning the closure of the Consulate at Dili, Portuguese Timor. I very much appreciated the reply thai I received. As  Senator Wright  the Minister who represents the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is now in the chamber, I wonder whether he would care to add anything to the reply that I have received thus far from  Senator Cotton? 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Order! I think that the honourable senator should frame a question to  Senator Wright.  I do not think that it is proper that  Senator Wright  should continue an answer to a question given by another Minister. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  Order! A question is asked on behalf of senators, not on behalf of anyone else, and not on behalf of your staff. 
THE  PRESIDENT-  It is relevant as far as I am concerned. 
I support the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Bill which will provide the necessary finance to assist Qantas Airways Ltd to purchase another 2 Boeing 747 jet aircraft. I was very sorry to hear  Senator Bishop  move the amendment on behalf of the Opposition. I do not think that Qantas deserves that sort of treatment. ]f we look through the history of this company we can bc very gratified and proud of what has been achieved since the establishment of Qantas. We can only take these things on results. If honourable senators look back to the paid up capital of the company in 1935-36 they will find that it amounted to $240,000. Today there is a paid up capital of S39.4m. The important line is: Net assets of the organisation in 1935-36 were $289,668 and today they total 1246,767,861. I note the increment in assets through the years. There has been steady progress. Often it has been quite outstanding progress. Overall this is an organisation which is operating with these results because it is directed by a body of men who are businessmen. I would hate to see any political interference with the conduct of the affairs of Qantas. 
The results speak for themselves when one notes the increase in the assets of the company. This position has been achieved in profit making and tax paid to the Government through the years. In the last couple of years profitability has been achieved at a time when international airlines all over the world have suffered terrific losses. I give further credit to Qantas for extremely good management and for matching up to situations which come before h in a very competitive field. I think that the attitude as suggested by the Opposition is a wrong attitude to adopt at this stage. In effect the amendment means that all the affairs of Qantas should be looked at. This is totally unfair to the company and, I think, most detrimental to its future wellbeing. 
We have to be clear in this matter. This is a public company incorporated 50 years ago under the Queensland Companies Act. It operates in all respects as a limited liability company, receiving no subsidy and liable for all applicable State and Commonwealth taxes. While overseas loans for the purchase of aircraft are negotiated, as in this case, by the Commonwealth, nevertheless the company is responsible for all repayments, including interest. This policy is common to other countries except possibly America where 80 per cent of the airlines which trade internationally are privately owned. 
I feel that governments everywhere appreciate the great value of an international flag carrier, both economically and politically.  J  feel that with Qantas, our international flag carrier, we have every reason to be satisfied with what is going on. Over the last 4 years the net profits have totalled $23.5m. I ask honourable senators to look at some of the results of other companies. In 1969 Pan American World Airways lost $US28m. Last year it had a $US48m loss. Trans World Airlines Pty Ltd lost $US64m, and United Airlines had a loss of $US45m. 
No, that is so. American Airlines Incorporated had a loss of $US26m. Let us look at the profitable airlines. Qantas made a profit of $5. 8m. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended for the luncheon break I was developing my theme in relation to the achievements of Qantas in an extremely competitive industry. I think one has to give credence to the fact that the knife edge nature of overseas airline operations make them extremely vulnerable. In the case of Qantas a fall of only 1 per cent in .load factor is equivalent to an annual loss of revenue of almost S4m, which was the amount of the dividend payable to the Commonwealth in respect of its 1969-70 operations. The fact of a successful year in 1970 - a profit of $5.8m when other major' airlines were losing colossal sums of money - is indicative of the business acumen and general ability, drive and initiative of those who direct the affairs of Qantas. 
I referred earlier to the losses which have been incurred in the last year or so by overseas international carriers. I then said that in 1970 Pan-American World Airways lost $46m, Trans-World Airlines Pty Ltd lost $64m, and American Airlines Incorporated lost $26m. In total the 12 United States trunk carriers, including Pan-Am. lost $169m. I repeat these figures for the purpose of emphasising how satisfactorily - indeed gratifyingly - our national flag carrier is operating. We must not forget either that Qantas operates in the vicious tempo of international competition. Its position is very different from the setting in which our domestic airlines operate. The increased costs of operations in Australia are met with increased fares. This is pretty well an automatic adjustment, but that is not the position with Qantas. 
I move now to some facts and figures in regard to this airline. In the last 4 years the dividends paid have been as follows: In 1967-68, 5 per cent; 1968-69. 7* per cent; 1969-70, 10 per cent; 1970-71, 7* per cent. In its long history - it was 50 years of age last year - Qantas has suffered only one operating loss and that was in 1966-67 when a loss of $lm was incurred. This adverse result was brought about by the very great industrial unrest at the time, particularly the pilots' strike. Looking at the achievements of the airline since the Government acquired an interest in it in 1945, we see that Qantas has paid or provided a total of $28. lm in dividends and has paid the Commonwealth $20m in taxation. So we have had a $48. lm return from this organisation. The airline's assets were built up from $3m to over $246m, which is a pretty good achievement by anybody's assessment. I am proud that we have an organisation such as this. I hope that political interference with its activities will be held at bay. I commend the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  in this regard. He has insisted that intrusion into the affairs of management, direction and policies of Qantas would be wrong. I think the airline's strength has come no doubt from that healthy freedom given to its board of management which can operate as it sees best as a group of businessmen. Being in business myself, if I can see results being achieved by those who are operating an enterprise I keep my nose right out of it, and I hope that the Minister, as in the past, will not intrude unnecessarily or unduly into the affairs of the airline. 
No, on the contrary. We are achieving in our international line results which are quite magnificent when one compares them with those of other major international lines. I am speaking not from any emotive background in these matters but from facts and figures which I am quoting now. I have every confidence in Qantas. I noticed a reference in this morning's Press to Qantair. This could well be the name of the bulk carrying system. There again we find that the board of management is getting into an activity in which other international lines are involved. Qantas can see an opening there and it is hopping into it as well. 
This is a big undertaking which involves a lot of finance and planning. As a matter of fact, it is very interesting to see that in a break-up of the private enterprise organisations of Australia Qantas ranks twenty-first. The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd has assets worth $ 1,202m; Qantas has assets worth $240m. Through the whole gamut of these organisations Qantas is the twenty-first largest in Australia, and that is big business. It has to plan its moves and with this razor edge margin in profits it cannot take on any undertaking which cannot be seen to have a future, to have a solid expectation of success. In all these years of Qantas operations to have lost money in only one year is indeed a superb achievement. 
The gross profits of the airline have totalled $7 1.2m, net profits have totalled $48m, and capital has increased from only $lm to $39.4m. This if a fantastic turnover on a given amount of capital base. Qantas has financed $205m from loans and its own resources. At 31st March of this year it was employing a staff of 12,782. The payroll for 1970-71 was $67m. As  Senator Bishop  has stated, Qantas is the twelfth largest international world airline based either on capacity ton miles or ton miles travelled. In 1970-71 Qantas operated 653 charters carrying almost 100,000 passengers. Revenue earned from this source was $27m. So there has been in this aspect of international traffic - charter flights - a very significant participation. In 1970-71 the airline carried 52,000 migrants on scheduled and charter flights. The net credit to Australia's balance of payments last year was $90m. 
I have every sympathy for those in the employ of Qantas who have been given notice of dismissal, but in the difficulties which beset the industry, one has to keep things in perspective. We should bear in mind the highly competitive nature of this industry, the fact that Pan-Am stood down 5,000 staff, that Trans-World Airlines has had to stand down 2,000 staff that United Airlines has stood down 2,400 staff, and that the profit of British Overseas Airways Corporation in the year ended March 1971 declined to $5m compared with $31m in the previous year. Qantas is valuable to the nation because it is carrying our flag proudly to some 46 cities of the world and providing for us tourist income of about $70m a year. 
In what way? 
Qantas is operating in a very competitive field as far as fares are concerned. In regard to the new charter arrangements, what has been read would indicate very keenly priced fares. 1 do not think there is any detriment to our tourist industry because of any inordinately high fares. If its fares were inordinately high, other airlines would take over the trade which Qantas is now enjoying. 
That I could not say. 
I said a moment ago that a huge enterprise such as this cannot turn to some new aspect of activity overnight. I believe that we are doing remarkably well, for a nation of our size, in Qantas being twelfth on the list of international airlines. I repeat that we cannot expect lo do these things as quickly as nations which are more prosperous than us or have stronger economies than ours. 
As a background to our defence structure the Qantas fleet is a major asset. This is not often considered. Here we have a fleet of aircraft of immense background value in any case of emergency to the nation. This has been provided not at a cost to the Government, because Qantas repays its loans to the Government, it pays revenue to the Government and it pays taxes right down the line as any privately owned enterprise would have to do. In regard to foreign exchange earnings, I note that the highest foreign exchange earner among the commodities is' metals and scrap at $626m. That is followed by cereal grains and cereal preparations at $597m, textile fibres and their waste at $550m and meat and meat preparations at $43 lm. And so we go down the list ,to Qantas, which at $140m is the ninth largest foreign exchange earner of all the industries of Australia. That indicates again the value of this airline to the nation and what it is achieving through its operations. 
I believe that we should be proud of this airline. That is why I am reiterating its size, its achievements and  its activities. Using the statistics of the 104 members of the Internationa) Air Transport Association, Qantas ranks as follows: In route mileage, seventh in the world; in passenger miles flown, twenty-second; in cargo ton miles flown, twenty-first; in mail ton miles flown, sixteenth; in number of staff, twenty-second; in hours flown, thirty-first; and in passengers carried, fifty-first. From all these facts and figures one can see that we have achieved pretty mightily through Qantas. I commend those who direct its affairs, as I commend the Minister on having kept his fingers out of the operations of the airline. I have no doubt that, with the attitudes and abilities of those who direct the company's affairs, we can look forward to a future of success as has marked its past operation. I support the Bill and reject the amendment. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="050232197111235_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In vew of the extremely low prices offering for wool crutchings and locks and the need to find further outlets for this grade of wool, will consideration be given to feasibility studies being undertaken by an organisation such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to ascertain whether this grade of wool could be processed and used as an economic alternative to jute fibre for industrial purposes? Is it a fact that the motor industry in Australia alone uses some 6,000,000 lb of jute fibre annually in the upholstering component of motor vehicles and that this could well be replaced by wool fibre of the type I have referred to? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry refers to an announcement made by the Commonwealth Government some months ago that it was prepared to give war service settlers first preference to purchase surrendered holdings which were established under the war service land settlement scheme. Is the Minister aware of the keen disappointment and concern of war service settlers at the alleged inordinately high reserve prices set on the surrendered holdings in the Upper Murray district of South Australia considering the run down condition of the holdings? Will the Minister reconsider these reserve prices with a view to reducing those levels to be more economic and attractive to the interested settlers? 
This matter of urgency is not a subject for heated debate but one for calm consideration and assessment. Let us keep our feet on the ground and keep values in right and reasonable perspective. The matter of urgency raised by  Senator Murphy  - namely, the promotion of the economy and the relief of unnecessary distress by an immediate increase in unemployment benefits and other social services - is one that I think we have to look at calmly, coolly and constructively. Basic to the whole matter is the state of our economy. All forms of social service provisions are related directly to the capability of the economy to provide them. Currently approximately one-third of our national budget is devoted to social welfare in some form or other. The economy has to have the ability to provide better conditions. We should pull together to ensure a greater bowl from which we may draw. Do not let us get the idea that suddenly we have before us an insuperable situation which we have to take panic station action to meet. That is not so. Australia has progressed remarkably. Today the figures, which I will quote in a moment, show that we have not the situation which calls for the urgency indicated by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  Let us look firstly at the situation in regard to present unemployment in Australia. Currently 1.7 per cent of our work force is unemployed. In the United States the figure is 6.2 per cent. In the Federal Republic of Germany it is 1 per cent, which is the lowest in the world. In Japan it is 1.3 per cent. Let me compare the situation in Australia. 
I have every respect and sympathy for those who are in distress. What hurts me is this: This matter of urgency contains a suggestion that our economy is in a bad way. 
It is not. It is one of the best economies in the world, and the honourable senator knows that. Our living standards- 
 Senator Keeffe  knows that I would not grind people into the ground - on the contrary. I am endeavouring to say that Australia has an economy of which we should be proud. If we apply ourselves assiduously and correctly to our task we can work our way out of any difficulty which may be with us at present. 
People in Australia are not starving, nor are they cold through lack of clothing. It is a matter of pulling together to ensure a better situation for everybody. Only by the combined effort of all can we achieve this. We are achieving this. 
I am proud of the situation that has been caused by 25 years of Liberal-Country Party Government in Australia. As a nation we have advanced as no other nation has advanced in the history of modern, progressive societies, and the honourable senator knows that. 
I understand that a member of the Australian Labor Party once said that 5 per cent unemployment is full employment. Our policy is full employment in the true meaning of the term. I will quote to my friend  Senator Keeffe  the figures on unemployment in Australia since 1964. In 1964, the figure was 1.4 per cent. In 1965 it was 1.3 per cent. In 1966 it was 1.5 per cent. In 1967 is was 1.6 per cent. In 1968 and 1969 it was 1.5 per cent. In 1970 it was 1.4 per cent. In 1971 it was 1.7 per cent. Can the honourable senator say that the Government goes out of its way to create unemployment? It has maintained one of the best levels of employment in the world. If he were honest he would admit that. At present 62,330 of the Australian work force are unemployed. This figure is as at October. The figure is less than it was in June. We are moving into a full employment situation again. Nobody can deny this. In my opinion, the attitude of the Opposition, as shown in this matter of urgency, is a most negative one. Here are the seeds of philosophy which, if allowed to germinate and grow, would ruin all that we as an aggressive individualistic people have attained through our rather brief history. We have achieved things. We have worked our way out of difficulties We can continue to do so in future if we are prepared to be honest in our attitudes. 
 I am horrified that in the situation in which Australia is - the best country in the world, with one of the strongest economies in the world - 1 hear these prophets of gloom suggesting that we are not progressing as we should and that there is a fantastic chasm in front of us. In my opinion, such suggestions are irresponsible, totally undesirable and dangerous because they are destroying confidence. Who was seeking to destroy confidence?  Senator Keeffe  was. He is doing a great disservice to our nation when he adopts this attitude. 
 I am speaking the truth as I see it. I hate the decrying of our national effort which has achieved such great and good things up till now, and this effort can continue. But if honourable senators opposite begin to sow seeds of doubt we will go down the drain, very quickly. Confidence is vital to our economy and  Senator Keeffe  knows it.  Senator Keeffe,  who has been calling across to me a lot tonight, knows that at the present time there is intense international competition for the provision of goods and services for markets for which we have to compete in other countries. Yet he advocates a 35- hour week. I wonder whether he considered the cost to our economy of this proposal and how it would be detrimental to our ability 'o provide for those who are recipients of social services. He glibly espouses the 35-hour week as the wonderful situation to which we are aspiring at tha present time. The cost of a 35-hour week in Australia would be $l,500m to $2,000m. 
 The whole proposition is that the state of the economy is basic to our ability to do the things that we desire and that  Senator Brown  desires to do for the recients of government assistance. The whole range of assistance is based on the economy and the Opposition would ruin the economy with its attitudes in regard to shorter working hours. The cost per unit of production is vital to our welfare and any action which would be detrimental to our ability to keep our costs down and retain our competitive position on overseas markets would undoubtedly in my opinion destroy what the Opposition seeks to achieve for the betterment of our social services. Here are a few of the economic indicators at the present time. Our gross national product in current prices increased by 12 per cent since the September quarter of 1970. Is that retrogression? Are things becoming bad when we see the gross national product increasing to this extent at a time when we all know that our rural industries generally, and particularly wool, are involved in a difficult situation? There is a continued strong growth in total private investment spending of up to 14 per cent in the year. There has been a sharp recovery in public spending, both capital and current, after the restraints of June. Finance is extremely finely balanced. I would hate to see the bull in a china shop attitude towards financial direction which would prevail if honourable senators opposite were on the treasury bench. It would be a shocking situation. 
There has been a reduced rate of growth in wages, salaries and supplements. It is up 15 per cent compared with 16i per cent for the June quarter last year. There has been a recovery in the gross operating surplus of companies. It is up 6 per cent before the June and September quarters of this year. There has been a continued moderate growth in consumer spending. It is up 9i per cent. We find that our savings bank deposits are at an all time record level which indicates that there is an ability in the community to put money aside tor a rainy day. I hope that principle, that responsibility and preparedness to do that continues because it is basic thrift and care which has been the background to our ability to have a stable society and a responsible attitude towards life in general. All these matters do not add up to a situation which requires, as  Senator Murphy  suggests, panic action at this stage to remedy our economic position. We have now some 8,000 more recipients of unemployment benefits than last year. I wonder how genuine the Leader of the Opposition is when he suggests that the economy and our ability to provide for our people would be affected by any increased payment to the 18,171 recipients of unemployment benefits. In our whole attitude towards the economy we have to be prepared to put value into our work. A small increase in productivity would do much more for the economy than can be done by a hand-out to any part of our society. 
I have no doubt that we can work our way out of any problems we have in Australia if we base our approach on sound foundations, such as we now have. These are the result of firm and sound policies through the years and are based on the assessment that there is no stationary situation but, only one of progress. If the bowl is enlarged all of us may benefit and it will allow us to do what the Leader of the Opposition suggests should be done in social services. 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the 11.8 per cent annual growth factor in wine sales experienced in the 5-year period prior to the imposition of the 50c per gallon excise charge has disappeared completely? Is the Minister aware of the deep concern being expressed by grape growers in South Australia that the estimated intake of  grapes  by the co-operative wineries in the coming vintage will be reduced to 50,000 tons as against 70,000 tons last vintage and 90.000 tons in 1970? As an unsalable surplus of 20,000 tons is threatened, will urgent consideration be given to an inquiry into this position by the Department of Primary Industry? As the deterioration has occurred since the incidence of the excise charge on wines, is it not high time that this tax was abolished? 
 I present the report and minutes of proceedings of Estimates Committee D on the Estimates for the year 1971-72. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-Order!  Senator Cavanagh  has the call. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, follows on from questions asked by  Senator Prowse  and  Senator McLaren.  Is the Minister aware that the price of flour in South Australia is determined by the Prices Commissioner in that State and that it has been so determined for the last 20 years? In respect of the increased home consumption price of wheat, operative from today, is the Minister aware that no determination has yet been made in regard to a flour price increase in that State arising from this increase in the price of wheat and other cost increases incurred since the last adjustment? 
I am impelled to speak very briefly in defence of our new Estimates Committees system and rebut what has been said particularly by  Senator Poyser  and to a lesser degree by  Senator Georges  whose main complain', f thought, was that one committee only should meet at a time and that this arrangement would meet the purposes of the whole Senate much better than having 2 committees sitting simultaneously. I would like to refer to a few remarks that were made by  Senator Poyser.  He said that the Estimates Committees do not function in the best interests of the consideration of the Estimates. In my experience we have never had a closer examination of departmental expenditures than we have had since the inauguration of this system. In my opinion departmental responsibility has been spurred in such a way or to such an extent that has never happened before. 
Under the present system, we have a personal and intimate responsibility revealed by the various Ministers and their highest departmental officers. We have direct questioning of those gentlemen. Through that direct questioning we have been able to elicit more information than has been possible for many, many years in this place through ministerial advisings in a hush and whisper across a little aisle. 
In every respect I feel that under our system national outlays these days are being examined in a way which is healthy, which is good and which deserves the utmost encouragement, co-operation and assistance of all senators. 1 feel - and I shall not speak for very long on this matter - that we have a situation as has never applied before in a close examination of expenditure of moneys provided by the taxpayers. I completely endorse the ideal of Estimates Committees. In my opinion they have been successful and I believe that, given a bit more time, we can achieve that which was sought by the originators of this system to the benefit of every citizen of Australia. 
1 present the report from the Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to Canberra sewage effluent, together with the evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the rising need in the interests of public health for diminution of the discharge of carbon monoxide from motor vehicle exhausts, particularly in metropolitan areas where intense traffic density occurs, will he ask the Treasurer to give early consideration to exemption from sales tax of anti-pollution devices available for incorporation in motor vehicle engines? Also in the interests of the maintenance of air quality generally, through encouragement to industry to install air pollution control plant of maximum efficiency, will consideration be given to allowing industry investment allowances and more attractive depreciation allowances on such plant? 
I move: 
That the senate take note of the report. 
I have pleasure in presenting the report of the Standing Committee on Social Environment in relation to Canberra sewage effluent. This is the second report presented by the Committee within a month. Although it does not dispose entirely of any one of the four references on which the Committee has still to report, it deals with an aspect of pollution encompassed by  the  first reference that the Committee received. On 30th March this year the Senate, by resolution, gave the Committee terms of reference asking it to undertake a continuing oversight of the problems of pollution. As will be noted, in deciding to examine the consequences of the discharge of Canberra's sewage effluent into streams flowing to the Murrumbidgee River, the Committee excerised the discretion available to it under those terms of reference. 
In turning its attention to this subject, the Committee has not wished to appear to be setting itself up as a body ready to embark on an inquiry or investigation merely because it has received a complaint. Problems arise in .many places owing to the discharge of wastes into inland streams. Canberra, as Australia's largest inland city, and one having a rapid rate of growth, offers the classic opportunity to study these problems. This circumstance and the fact that the source of the alleged pollution was within the Territory in which the Commonwealth has administrative and legislative responsibility were significant factors in the minds of Committee members in directing their efforts to this subject. Having noted public expressions of concern over the alleged effects of Canberra's sewage effluent on the Murrumbidgee River and Burrinjuck Dam, the Committee considered its work programme and order of priorities, and determined that it ought to examine the matter immediately. That decision was made in the belief that the examination could be completed quickly without delaying other important tasks. Let me at this point express the Committee's appreciation to the Commonwealth and State Ministers concerned, anc! their departments, and to the Goodradigbee Shire Council and its officers, for the cooperation and assistance extended to the Committee in the conduct of the inquiry. Particularly, the Committee thanks the officers who appeared as witnesses and who attended us on the occasion of our inspection of the Canberra sewage treatment works. 
The major concern put to the Committee, in evidence, related to health hazards. The Committee found that the allegations that Canberra sewage effluent was responsible for harmful pollution of the Murrumbidgee River and the Burrinjuck Dam were not supported by factual evidence. Moreover, they were based - inappropriately, in the Committee's view - on the assumption that drinking water standards should . be maintained at all times in the river and the dam. On the evidence presented, the Committee has no doubt that the discharge of Canberra's sewage effluent contributes, though only marginally, to pollution of the Murrumbidgee River downstream from the ACT. The normal use of the waters in question being for pastoral and agricultural purposes and for recreational activities such as boating, fishing and swimming, the Committee considers that the marginal increase in the pollution load is not currently a health danger. In our view, the evidence did not establish any present threat to aquatic life in the river and the dam directly attributable to the discharge of Canberra's sewage effluent. Nevertheless, we believe that, as  a  precautionary measure, detergent and 'Solvex' residues ought to be constantly monitored and their effects continually watched. Fears were expressed about leaching from the Coppins sludge lagoons and the danger of pollution of the Murrumbidgee River by a proposed new tip at the northern edge of current Canberra development. However, the evidence did not substantiate these fears. 
In presenting this report, I emphasise that the Committee concerned itself only with the possible effects of Canberra sewage effluent on the reaches of the Murrumbidgee River from the ACT down to the Burrinjuck Da-. .Mid on the waters within the dam, and with the potential dangers from the proposed rubbish tip and the possibility of leaching from the Coppins sludge lagoons. The evidence indicated mat the presence of pollutants in the Burrinjuck Dam may be attributable not to the discharge of sewage effluent from Canberra but to sources in New South Wales. As the Committee has noted in its report, it is the responsibility of tie New South Wales anthorities to deal with any sources of pollution that occur within State jurisdiction. The report traces the development of Canberra's sewage treatment works and notes that, with Canberra's continuing growth, higher standards of effluent will be required in the future. The Australian Capital Territory authorities described lo the Committee their plans for a major new water quality control centre to be pui into service by 1976. Realisation of these plans will, the Committee believes, provide adequate safeguards for the future, however, the Committee is concerned at the present degree of reliance on the natural self-purification capacity of the Molonglo River. In effect, it is regarded as part of the treatment process. We recommend that everything possible be done to improve the quality of the effluent from the Weston Creek treatment works, and that the construction of the new water quality control centre be treated as a matter of urgency so that this situation may be brought to an end as quickly as possible. 
The Committee believes that the joint testing programme recently instituted by the Commonwealth and State authorities should be continued and regarded as a first step towards some form of joint management of the Canberra-Burrinjuck Dam region of the Murrumbidgee basin. We foresee that in the future, with the growth of Canberra, there will be a pressing need to treat to a high standard, and to re-use, as much as possible of the available waste water. We believe that the Commonwealth's interest in the waters flowing through the ACT must have regard to the interests of the adjoining region within NSW. It is our view that a form of joint managment would best harmonise these interests for the benefit of all. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the Commonwealth and State governments consider the establishment conjointly of a wafer quality management area in this part of the Mumimbidgee basin. 
In view of the reply by the Minister for Civil Aviation to the remarks of  Senator Bishop  in respect to the present Adelaide Airport and the Minister's reference to the possibility of a second airport being required for Adelaide in 20 to 25 years time, 1 would like to know whether options have been taken over or purchases have been made of sites which ultimately could be required for the proposed second airport for Adelaide? 
Order! In conformity with  the  sessional order relating to the adjournment  of the Senate, I formally put the question:   That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair  and  report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
I am impelled to express my disappointment at what I regard as being a comparative lack of action at the Federal level in respect to the legislative background necessary to meet problems of pollution in the Territories which are directly within the responsibility of the Commonwealth, that is (he Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. At the State level we see real activity to meet the problems within their particular jurisdiction. 
 lt is a lack of what I call firm action, 1 believe most firmly in Commonwealth-State co-operation on matters which should be looked at with a high degree of overall national interest. To have this co-operation 1 think that in the first instance we should be matching the diligence of the Slates in respect of their environmental problems through legislative provisions. Then we would have a base from which to work to seek this cooperation which I feel is so essential to achieve worthwhile things in Australia in the field of pollution generally and in maintaining our environment. In the report submitted last Thursday by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment, of which I am  Chairman,  we said: 
Most aspects of environmental pollution fall within the administrative responsibility of the States, except in relation to Commonwealth Territories. The complex matter of CommonwealthState relations that are involved require a careful approach by a Standing  Comittee  of the Senate of the Commonwealth- 
Such as our Standing Committee on Social Environment -  in the present circumstances  ki  which all the States have embarked on new legislative and administrative initiatives while there has been no specific legislative activity on the Commonwealth's part. 
We went on to say: 
The administrative step of establishing the Office of the Environment within the Department of the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts has been taken by the Commonwealth, but this Office appears at  the  time of the preparation of this report to have done little more than play the part of a liaison agency without developing the operative co-ordinating role in Federal action that seems desirable to focus the Commonwealth's multifarious interests in spheres of activity bearing on environmental problems. The two Senate Select Committees referred to in the terms' of reference 
That is the two commitees which inquired into air pollution, in the first instance, and water pollution in the second instance - ephasised the  need for action at the national level. Though some specific moves have been made by individual authorities, the Federal activity apparent to this stage suggests a' lack of concentration and purposeful direction towards the Commonwealth's proper role as  a  leader in  a  national effort rather than mainly a liaison authority primarily responding to initiatives taken by others. 
The report continued: 
In this situation, the Committee believes it should first turn its  attention  to the Commonwealth's sphere of responsiblity, and then, where  appropropriate,  examine State situations in a spirit of co-operation wilh State authorities. For it will be the Committee's purpose to help all the States wherever possible. 
I am keenly interested in firm action being taken within the ability and competency of, firstly, the Federal Parliament and then by the States acting within their own rights. This co-operation should be based on an approach which will ensure maximum efficiency and correctly attain those things which we desire to attain. There should be no intrusion on State rights. I do* not like intrusion into the sovereign area of a State. We can do very much if we have the foundations on which to work. If wc were to have a really mobile, active, alert and diligent attitude at the present time toward environmental matters we would be discussing with the States their position in regard to providing open space for instance, while there is still time to obtain it, in areas of rapidly growing population. In these areas land is being used for sub-division. More of it should be retained as green belt or green area, recreational grounds and so on. 
Through the years in South Australia we have seen the keenness of local governing authorities which have drawn on their borrowing capacity to the utmost to ensure that in some of the most rapidly growing areas near the metropolitan portion of Adelaide they have areas which are now of real value. Wihout the foresight shown 9 or 10 years ago these areas would not have been available to those local governing authorities. The State assisted local governing authorities to obtain these open spaces. But there are many instances where land has been foregone, as.it were, for this purpose because there is no monetary ability to obtain such land. With the Commonwealth and the States looking keenly at a situation to provide certain things I can see a big opening for action which will be purposeful, helpful and of advantage to posterity. It is my wish and great hope that through this Office of the Environment we will achieve those things which will be of permanent benefit to Australia. Again, I admit that I will be disappointed if I do not see greater action taken in areas where, it could be taken. An example has not been set. It is impossible to discuss with (he State authorities good ideas for betterment in a general setting, when we have not provided basic foundations to achieve to such betterment, as recommended in reports concerning the environment, particularly from the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution and the Senate Select. Committee on Air Pollution. 
While not being one who takes pleasure in criticism unless it be constructive, this afternoon I do feel that it is high time that the things which are being said now should be said. I feel that it is only by expressing disappointment  -  as I do at this moment - that perhaps we will see a better attitude evolving. More action should be taken which will give us backgrounds which are vitally necessary if we are to give purpose and meaning to the environment and the problems associated with it. We should ensure that we do not leave to posterity a liability but rather an asset of which we can be proud and which will be of great help to those who come after us. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
Before we proceed,  Mr Minister,  I presume we will deal with the Department of Health first for your convenience. 
I am perfectly happy to accommodate the Committee. If the debate is to be fairly extended, I think it would be easier to take the estimates department by department - I have the officers from the various Departments with me - but if the debate is to be in a fairly abridged form perhaps we could take the totality of the departments. Because my officers and I were getting ourselves organised I missed the substance of the first point raised by  Senator Mulvihill.  Will he repeat it for me now? 
 Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Motion withdrawn. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
That is right. 
I turn my attention now to the South Australian coast and refer to co-operation between the Department of the Navy and State Government instrumentalities.  Mr Temporary Chairman,  you would know only too well Pearson Island off the coast of South Australia as the home of a rare variety of rock wallaby. You would also be aware of the concern expressed about the activities of fishing vandals who go on to the island and engage in shooting, causing great carnage. What co-operation, if any, exists between the Navy and State authorities in respect of the use of patrol boats to combat such situations or the eastern coast of Australia? 
My next question concerns the estimates of the Department of Supply. When  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson was Minister for Supply, at the request of the New South Wales Branch of the Transport Workers Union I requested advice of the ratio between miles travelled by cars of the Commonwealth car pool in Sydney and miles travelled on behalf of the Commonwealth by private car operators. I do not expect to obtain tonight the information I am seeking, but I would like the Minister to provide for me a breakdown of the miles covered in the last 3 months by hire cars on behalf of the Commonwealth compared with the miles travelled by cars of the Commonwealth car pool in Sydney. I  would also like to ask the Minister whether Commonwealth drivers are automatically entitled to a higher classification after they have driven a certain number of miles in their employment. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has a wealth of industrial experience. Perhaps his has been gained on one side and mine has been gained on the other side. He is familiar with industrial matters at least in some industries in Western Australia. I would like to establish whether there is stability of employment in the Commonwealth car pool in Sydney. What is the rate of recruitment there? The other point that I raise is in regard to the estimates for the Department of Supply. I refer particularly to the Antarctic Division. There was a period when it was necessary for us to charter vessels, often from the Scandinavian countries. Are we now selfsufficient or do we need to charter vessels from other countries? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I recently asked the Minister whether consideration would be given to the possibility of using inferior wool such as locks and crutchings as an alternative to jute for industrial purposes. I now ask whether an investigation has yet been made into this matter. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Clause 3. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting from sub-section (1.) the definition of " Borrower " and inserting in its stead the following definition: - " ' Borrower ' means a person who has received an advance orexecuted a mortgage or other security to the Director, and for the purposes of sections thirty  a,  thirty-one and thirty-six of this Act, includes - 
a  transferee under section thirty-five of this Act of an estate or interest in the land or land and dwelling-house that was formerly the estate or interest of a borrower in relation to the land or land and dwelling-house; and 
the personal representative of a person who was, immediately before his death,  a  borrower in relation to the land or land and dwelling-house;"; 
Clause 4 reads: 
Clause 4. 
Section 19 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (4.) the words " Eight thousand dollars " (wherever occurring) and inserting in their stead the words " Nine thousand dollars ". 
Clause 5 reads: 
Clause 5. 
Section 21 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words " Eight thousand dollars " (wherever occurring) and inserting in their stead the words " Nine thousand dollars ". 
I move: 
In clause 3, before paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph: - "(aa) by adding at the end of the definition of 'Australian Soldier' in sub-section (1.) the following words, 'and includes a serving member of the permanent forces;'.". 
In clause. 4, leave out "Nine thousand dollars", insert "Fifteen thousand dollars". 
After clause 4, insert the following new clause: - "4a. Section 20 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting from sub-section (1.) the words 'Subject to this Act and to the directions of the Minister as to matters of general policy, the Director may, upon application in writing' and inserting in their stead the words 'Subject to this Act, the Director may, upon application in writing, unless prevented by the regulations'.". 
After clause 4, insert the following new clause: - "4b. Section 20a of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words "The Director shall not, except with the approval of the Minister' and inserting in their stead the words' The Director may, unless prevented by regulations'.". 
In clause5, leave out "Nine thousand dollars", insert "Fifteen thousand dollars". 
After clause 5, insert the following new clause: - "5a. Section 29aa of the Principal Act is amended - 
by inserting in paragraph (b) in subsection (1.) after the word 'insane', the words 'or incapacitated'; and 
by adding at the end of sub-section (1.) the following paragraphs: 
she is an eligible person and is the widow of an ineligible person; or 
she is an eligible person and her husband is temporarily or perirtanently insane or incapacitated; or 
in the case of an unmarried person he or she is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated; or. 
where a person is the sole purchaser or borrower, he or she, or his or her spouse, is temporarily or permanently insane or incapacitated'.". 
The argument was placed before the Senate by both  Senator Little  and the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that a major reason why the amount could not be increased was that the appropriation for the War Service Homes Division of the Department of Housing had been set already, and that if amendment No. 5 were carried this would cut back the availability of housing. I draw to the notice of the Committee the fact that Appropriation Bill (No. 3) is now on the notice paper and it provides for an additional $30m for the wool industry. .1 do not quarrel with that but this is the third Appropriation Bill introduced and it is not beyond the ingenuity of the Government to introduce a fourth Appropriation Bill for the purpose of increasing the allocation for war service homes. 
I rise to support this Bill which provides for the raising of loan moneys to the extent of $4m for the purpose of making advances to settlers to cover current working costs for the purchase of stock and replacement plant, and for certain capital works requirements under the provisions of the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act. There are about 1,000 blocks of land in South Australia under  this scheme - on Kangaroo Island, quite a lot of which has been set aside under the scheme, in River Murray irrigation areas and in areas in the southeast of South Australia. There have been instances of quite outstanding success achieved by some of the settlers. There have been instances of heartache and heartbreak in the case of some of those settlers who took up what was offered to them under this scheme. It appears to me that in those instances Where things have not gone so well, lack of capital or not having any equity at all originally was the base cause of the troubles. I appreciate that it was a correct attitude for the Government to adopt not to debar any applicant for a block of land because of his lack of equity or capital. 
This is a very good policy. 
Some of those settlers who were allotted lands which were not the best in background for the production of the commodities which it was proposed to produce on these lands, to my mind were not able to make the grade because of the difficulties inherent in their particular situations. The result is that there is in some instances a real requirement of Government assistance to this day. The moneys to be allotted to the 3 States under this Bill are $1,683,000 to South Australia; $1,600,000 to Western Australia; and $717,000 to Tasmania. In toto that is roughly the amount we provided a year ago for a similar purpose. So it can be seen that there is a continuing requirement for this money. We have been hoping for a long while that possibly the horizon would clear and that the requirement for assistance would be smaller. But with the adverse conditions at the present time in the rural sector of the economy there is a requirement that this assistance continue. 
It is good to see that there are capita) outlays in regard to headworks, block drainage and so on in the irrigation areas of the regions of the Murray in South Australia. I understand that we are reaching a stage there where all that is needed in capital work under the land settlement scheme is being provided. But once we have all the backgrounds for these areas, I feel there still will be need to have a very close look at assistance to those settlers who could be put in a better position through access to further lands - perhaps lands which are bordering or adjacent to their holdings. I am pleased to note that in relation to South Australia the Minister gave consent - it would have to apply to the whole of the scheme because benefits which do not apply generally cannot be given in one particular area - to a provision whereby when leases are surrendered the remaining settlers will  have the first option to purchase at a valuation set by the Lands Department in my State in conjunction with the federal authority. But the complaint has been that the valuations were too high and were not providing a background from which a viable unit could be expected. I believe that this sort of disappointment could well be sought to be overcome.  
I would rather see more definite action taken to meet a given situation. I believe that everything possible should be done more or less in one fell swoop and then it should be said: 'That is as far as we can go'. The settler, in the full realisation that he has received all he can reasonably expect to receive, would then be in a position to know that if he could not make a go of it he would have no further access to assistance. I believe that it is necessary to be generous in the first instance to ensure that the backgrounds are present. In that way a person would be able to say: 'I have been given all the assistance I expect to be given and I have not succeeded. Therefore, I will be content to get out of it'. But I do think it is necessary to view in a very practical way the problems which from time to time confront settlers. I am not saying that in a destructive way; 1 am seeking a constructive attitude to remove those complaints that one hears to this day in certain sectors of the settlement scheme. 
I have received from the soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island some suggestions as to matters which should be looked at from the angle of providing assistance to those settlers. They have indicated that basic to the proposals they have placed before me for my presentation to the Parliament is the inherent aim of the War Service Land Settlement Agreements Act . to rehabilitate ex-servicemen successfully. The achieving of this objective is the fundamental purpose of these proposals. I believe that definite and prompt action has to be taken from time to time to ensure that success  is  achieved and that the settlers emerge to a position of freedom from control and direction in a given time. 
One of the recommendations put forward by the body of settlers on Kangaroo Island was that the annual rent be applied as an instalment towards the freehold and that the instalments be retrospective to the date of the present occupiers taking up their leases, lt is said by the settlers that that would greatly increase their incentive and that it would be of the greatest ultimate advantage to the settlers and their heirs. The settlers want to get out of their indebtedness and they want the annual rent to be regarded as an instalment towards freehold. The settlers say that that would achieve the really basic requirement of freedom and proprietary ownership in a reasonable time. They have suggested that the War Service Land Settlement Act be amended to permit lessees to introduce members of their family as partners in the equity of the holding - sharing the responsibility that would apply in a normal perpetual lease - and that the partners or the dependants of the original war service lessee should have the opportunity of enjoying the same opportunities as would apply to the original lessee. It is considered imperative in support of this suggestion that, in particular, sons should be given the opportunity to acquire an interest in the responsibility for and equity of the lease. 
We hear continually of the national concern about the drift of young people to the cities from pastoral areas. In the situation to which I am referring - that is, Kangaroo Island - there is an acute problem in regard to the employment of young people. There has to be an incentive for them to stay on the Island. It is basic that they be given an opportunity to do so. A couple of brothers who are required to work on their father's holding for goodness knows how long without the recompense to which they would be normally entitled should be given some equity for their efforts. The collective efforts of a father and his sons should ensure that the asset belongs to the family in due course. Some compensation has to be given for the work which is put in on war service land settlement holdings by members of a family. lt has been suggested that compensation should be paid for losses incurred on -the 
Island arising from the effect of yarloop clover on the breeding capacity of the sheep. The yarloop pasture is dominant in lots of the holdings through no fault of any of the holders. Money is required to remove it from established pastures and to renovate those pastures, lt has been suggested that action is required to be taken urgently if the severely affected properties are to remain viable entities. The cost on. Kangaroo Island of replacing breeding stock from the mainland greatly increases the financial burden on the settlers, and the value of aged and surplus stock from these affected areas, if saleable, naturally is greatly reduced. I should be grateful if the Minister for Primary Industry would have a look at these points and give some information on them in due time. 1 feel that replies to these sorts of suggestions would be greatly appreciated by the settlers themselves. They could well clarify some situations which are now, in the minds of the settlers, not constituting a very contented and happy background. 
A further matter I should mention is a suggestion which was put forward in regard to depreciation on plant. In areas where there has been very hard clearing to be done costly machines have been required and there has been greater wear and tear on those machines. It is suggested that an amount of some dollars per acre be credited to the plant account of the settler to offset the cost of regrowth clearance, the establishment of new pastures. 
I believe that there is a lot of merit in the amendment proposed by  Senator Drury.  The war service land settlement scheme in Australia could well be evaluated by a committee of inquiry, but I am not very enamoured of the idea of it being evaluated by a joint select committee. I think that the Government could determine the authority to which such an inquiry should be entrusted. It could well be one of the Senate standing committees. At this stage a number of references of very wide ranging interests, importance, and requirement in research have been made to the Senate committees. I feel that this is not the time to add to the number of inquiries but that we should bear this matter in mind so that as soon as the appropriate committee is free to look at and consider the matter it can do so. I support the Bill. 
 1  wish to indicate my support for the 3 Bills relating to dried vine fruits now before the Senate. In considering these Bills the matter of the excise on wine does emerge because of the use to which certain varieties of grapes can be put. In recent years they have been used for wine but they could well be directed to the dried fruits sector because of conditions in the wine industry today. In speaking to these Bills now before the Senate I wish to deal with a problem which arises in respect to the disposal of grapes in either of their 2 forms. These Bills have a direct relationship to the matter to which reference has been made by  Senator McLaren,  that is the excise impost of 50c on a gallon of wine. I have, right from the day that I learned of the imposition of a 50c excise on wines, opposed that excise duty in every manner open to me. 
I have opposed it. My attitude in this matter is constructive. 1 have not said one thing in this House at variance with what I have said at home in my electorate in South Australia or wherever it may have been in the wine growing areas. 1 have assured my grape growing friends and those in the wine manufacturing industry of my deep concern and I will endeavour continuously in every way I can to bring about the abolition of this impost in the realisation that this grape growing and wine making industry has had a very difficult past until the last 6 years. In that time we have seen a very great increase in the home consumption of table wines, the type of wine whose use it is good to encourage, as opposed to the highly fortified spirituous drinks. In the last 5 years there has been an average increase of 11.8 per cent a year in wine sales in Australia. Since the imposition of the wine tax announced in the Budget of last year the growth rate which was expected by the industry prior to the introduction of the excise has not eventuated. I have from the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  a letter which verifies this fact. The growth rate is down. In actual sales there has been a slight increase but not in accord with what was anticipated. We now have on hand some 60 million gallons of wine. On the basis of sales of 24 million gallons or less a year we have approximately 3 years' wine stocks in Australia at the present time. 
I look back to the difficult times that this industry experienced in the mid-1960s and just beyond the mid-1960s when the growers could not place their grapes. In one particular year some 20,000 tons could not be placed. Special pools were set up to take in these grapes. At that time there was an arrangement with the South Australian Government led by  Sir Thomas  Playford whereby an independent arbiter would determine what should be the price of grapes. The South Australian Prices Commissioner was the arbiter. The growers' organisation and the wine making section had to submit evidence to the Commissioner who would determine what would be a reasonable increase in the price of grapes in a given year. That was at a time when there were surplus stocks hovering about the place. At that time it was not possible to vary the price - and the variations were upwards - by more than 30s or at the best 2 a ton because the wine manufacturing industry is so highly sensitive to public demand which in turn tends to vary according to price. 
The excise levy of 50c, based on a crush of 140 gallons of wine from 1 ton of grapes, is worth $70 a ton, which is much greater than the grower receives, on an average, for his grapes. As I say, the industry was in a difficult situation until 7 years ago. Since then there has been magnificent growth in this industry. It had to battle for so long in the years up to 1970, but for 5 years up to that time there has been an increase of .1 1.8 per cent a year in sales. So you can imagine my concern when I learned that the Budget contained this impost as part of the revenue measures. Do honourable senators opposite expect me to vote on a financial measure which would destroy my own Party's government? Do honourable senators expect that? Nobody has said this to me at any time in South Australia. I would not vote against the Party which provides the Government of which I am proud to be a supporter and whose policies 1 agree with - apart from this sort of impost about which I have expressed my deep concern. Indeed, I have worked continuously for its abolition. 
1 act honestly, I trust, in everything I do. It ill becomes  Senator McLaren  to make charges against people in a way which is not substantiated in fact or in decency. We on this side of the Senate have striven at all times to maintain a sense of respect, dignity and decorum and an appreciation of individuals in a decent way. The honourable senator is introducing aspects which to me are horrifying. We can do more for the betterment of those whom we represent by doing in a decent way those things which are within our scope and ability. I have acted in the most constructive manner that I have been able to, as have  Senator Young  and my other colleagues in this matter. I have persistently, with a barrage of correspondence, personal interviews and questions in this Chamber, sought to indicate the situation as it applies in this industry. 1 feel that I am getting somewhere with my colleagues in this matter, and I am doing it in a way which is in accord with the decency of representation and not by playing politics in a way which to me is obnoxious. 
I say again that the incidence of the excise is and has been most detrimental for this industry. I am fearful as to the effects it will have on the industry. I do trust that the Government will see the folly of its ways in imposing this excise. 1 am perturbed at what can occur in the coming vintage season in the disposal of our grapes. There could be a reduction in intake to a degree that will cause great hardship particularly in the irrigated areas which produce excellent grapes of high quality and in great volume. 
The growers of these grapes which are serviced into wine by the co-operatives will suffer most because the impact of the levy has been very detrimental to the flagon trade, the wholesale trade, the trade which is supplied in volume by these co-operative organisations on the River Murray. This volume tax has had a very great impact on the sales slot which is filled by the sale of this type of wine by the co-operatives. A flagon of wine which cost Si before the imposition of the tax now costs 1.50. This represents a 50 per cent increase. No product can carry that sort of increase and still expect to be buoyant in its distribution. I refer to the figures to which  Senator Donald  Cameron referred earlier. He said that the income from this excise for the period from its imposition till the end of the financial year was S9, 250,000. It had been anticipated that this income would be approximately $12,500,000. Surely this must show to the Government the harm being done to sales, as proven by the lack of expected revenue. The revenue received is not in accord with what had been anticipated by the Government. The sales are much less than anticipated, to the extent of approximately 6 million gallons. I have continuously brought these arguments before the Government,  i  feel that we are having them recorded by the Government Ibr firm action in the light of what has transpired. I know that on the basis of persistent representation for abolition we will get somewhere. This is the way to go about it, and no other- 
Yes, I supported it as a monetary measure within the Budget, while immediately ' registering complete opposition to it and seeking its abolition, ft is the only way we can go about it, and the honourable senator knows that. I am persistent in my endeavours to have this impost removed. I shall continue to work, as I have done, persistently for the abolition of the lax or for a major decrease in its incidence because of the detriment which it has been shown to cause to the industry. We can now prove that harm has been done; previously there was conjecture about it. I ask the Government again to give immediate consideration to the abolition of this tax or, at least for the time being, to a diminution of it to a level which would not represent an impediment to the wellbeing and growth of the industry. In conclusion, may I thank my friend,  Senator Little  of the Democratic Labor Party, for his words prior to my rising to speak. I support the Bills which are now before the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Following the announcement that colour television will be available in Australia in 1975 and in view of the fact that many country centres in areas such as Eyre Peninsula in South Australia have been seeking standard television services for a considerable time without avail, will every consideration be given to providing standard television reception in those areas before the introduction of colour television? 
That is so. In considering this matter this evening we must bear in mind also that in recent years the Commonwealth Government has increased greatly the allocation to the States. I think that the direct allocation to the States last year was no less than $2,930m out of our total Federal budget of some $8,833m. If we add the payroll tax revenue it means that in excess of $3, 000m is now going to the States. State abilities have increased because of this added capacity to provide certain things. This must not be forgotten. The States can now allocate funds for their own services.I stress again that there is no better means of government than local government because local government is nearest to the people.I think that this Commonwealth Government, because of its present attitude in dealing with situations arising from national disasters, is endeavouring to maintain this 'nearest the people' principle. 
I fully appreciate that point. 1 am merely giving the background and pointing out that the States have a greater budgetary capacity to do certain things and this enables better services to be provided in the light of local conditions. This evening 1 have sought to stress the background of the Federal Government's attitude to national disasters. 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="051232197202233_47_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="051232197202233_47_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Question put: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until the next day of sitting at 10.59 a.m.  (Senator Murphy's motion). 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a recent statement by  Mr Jeffery  Penfold-Hyland,  President  of the Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia, that the coming vintage could be of the order of 340,000 to 350,000 tons of grapes with an estimated surplus over wine makers' requirements of some 40,000 tons? Pending determination in regard to the removal of the 50c per gallon excise on wine, what steps are being taken by the Government to facilitate the processing of the estimated surplus? Is the Minister aware that in similar circumstances in South Australia some 7 years ago the State Government came to the rescue of the grape growing industry by providing assistance in processing the surplus? Will the Federal Government give early and urgent consideration to this matter in view of the imminence of the vintage and provide such assistance as would ensure the processing of the total crop? 
Wc are indebted to  Senator Murphy  for having instituted this discussion in which we are considering (he desirability of establishing a national organisation to prepare for and deal with the effects of natural disasters such as tires, floods, droughts, cyclones and earth movement. The discussion which has taken place has been most interesting. On an overall assessment of the chamber 1 believe that, on balance, it is not desirable to have a great variation of the system which now applies. The opening words of  Senator Murphy's  motion refer to the desirability of a national organisation. That implies immediately an organisation based in Canberra to deal with matters which arise from so-called natural disasters. 
1 am speaking in the general context of the matter raised by the honourable senator and will indicate my attitude to it. Centralisation of this kind of activity is not desirable because our country is so vast and the differences in climate between north and south, east and west, do not allow for a centralised authority to be sufficiently knowledgeable or competent to deal with disasters as they occur. Rather, our system of federation is so good because wc have an overall federal authority dealing with certain matters of national import and then States with their sovereign rights attending to matters within their boundaries. We have a system of government in Australia which is in keeping with the basic geographical and, I would say, human requirements of government. 
There are cyclones in Queensland, but in South Australia we have droughts. There are floods in the well watered States of Victoria and New South Wales, whereas Western Australia is susceptible to drought. There is a different incidence of disaster in the various States because of their climatic conditions and background and there is a big variation in those disasters or the propensities of given States to be sufferers from given disasters. For that reason, in my opinion it needs authority in the local region of States best to determine what should be done against that background to meet situations which reasonably could be expected to occur. 
Let me refer to South Australia as an example. Our biggest concern is the lack of rainfall. Jd South Australia 10 per cent of the Stale's surface only enjoys no more than 10 inches of rain per annum. Bushfires and grass fires are our biggest concern from the disaster point of view. For this reason State Governments through the years, realising that our greatest danger by way of disaster can be referred to as acts of God, to use insurance parlance, which are not normally insurable, or if they are insurable the premiums are so high that it is not economic to insure, have given great importance to and laid stress on the need to maintain emergency fire services in rural areas. These have been magnificent organisations, meeting that which we in our State would regard as the most likely point from which disaster might occur: I presume that in  Senator Keeffe's  State cyclonic disturbances are of the greatest concern. 
If in Australia we have, as we endeavour to have, a system which will ensure that there is equality of standards, say in education, hospitalisation and road construction as a general background to our way of living, and if a State cannot meet that standard because of its' economic situation, special grants are made or larger allocations arc given to that Slate to ensure that there is a national equality. Bearing in mind the equality of base, when an unusual claim has fallen upon a State because of some disaster, has not the Federal Government through the years come to the party immediately and given assistance? The Federal Government has done a wonderful job. 
Yes. Every State which has sustained a disaster has had the same understanding and generous consideration from the Federal Government in alleviating that situation. It would be a grave mistake to endeavour to superimpose on what is already set up in State circles to meet possible acts of God or national disasters beyond the norm of misfortune. It is important that we do not duplicate services. One matter that we must walch very closely in this nation is that we do nol allow our public service, in the broadest sense of the word, to grow away from a realistic apportionment of the whole of our employment, economically and over the whole gamut of national economic development. Today in Australia one person in every 3.8 people is somehow or other engaged in a public service activity. 
The purpose of the motion moved by  Senator Murphy  was to enable a discussion on the setting up of a national organisation to prepare for and to deal with the effects of natural disasters. The setting up of such an organisation inevitably would involve the establishment of a central authority in Canberra with regional directors in all States. There would be an overlapping of existing services in all States and a wasteful monetary situation, a situation which is not conducive to an efficient handling of a given situation at short notice with local knowledge. I believe that the present capacity to meet that which could arise is well served by the provisions which wc have experienced and which we could expect to continue in the event of adverse conditions arising. As an indication of the Commonwealth attitude towards disasters I propose to refer to the recent damage from cyclone Althea in Queensland and to quote from the 'Daily Telegraph' of 17th February, which stated under the headline Federal Government to ease cyclone cost': 
The Federal Government will contribute between $5.5m and $6m to repair damage caused by cyclone Althea. 
The cyclone struck the Townsville region last December 20 and caused widespread damage to buildings. 
Announcing the aid today the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said that the figure was based on preliminary estimates. 
Relief and restoration measures other than the relief of personal hardship and distress resulting from natural disasters was regarded as a State responsibility. 
In these words we have very clearly an indication of what the Federal Government does in situations which occur and in a particular situation which unfortunately  Senator Keeffe  experienced in his home town not so very long ago. The report continued: 
The Commonwealth nevertheless recognises that the States have limited financial resources to draw upon in an emergency- 
This goes back to the point I made earlier about the equality of services provided by the States. 
No, with his hands in his pockets, and he took them out of his pockets and, very generously and very rightly, handed the money across to the State. The report continued: and is prepared to assist in financing measures other than the relief of personal hardship and distress where the States are involved in substantial expenditure of an abnormal nature,' he said. 
This also gives weight to the point I made, that when there is trouble the Federal Government comes to the rescue and assists as generously as it is able to ensure that the State which has suffered a disaster is not itself faced with a cost factor which is beyond its ability to meet and from which hardship could arise on the residents of the area. The report continued: 
When a State incurred expenditure on such additionally agreed measures in excess of an initial base amount, the Commonwealth was prepared to meet in full the remaining expenditure. 
This base amount for Queensland was $2m. 
The Queensland Government had already spent this amount this financial year. 
The Queensland Government having done that, in comes the assistance from the Federal Government. The report continued: 
In addition to sharing a dollar-for-dollar basis expenditure for the immediate relief of personal hardship and distress, the Commonwealth had agreed to: 
Fully reimburse State Government eligible expenditure in 1971-72 above the $2m base level on the restoration of Government assets. 
Meet costs over $100,000 spent by semigovernment and local authorities for restoration of their assets. 
Pay for personal hardship and distress to help people repair and rebuild private homes. 

 Mr McMahon said he had told the Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  that the State's share of the cost of this scheme could be included in its spending on the restoration of Government assets. 
To the extent that some of the repairs might not be completed before June 30, 1972, the carryover costs would be a charge against the base expenditure for 1972-73. 
There we have defined very clearly what the Commonwealth Government does in situations like this. There is an avoidance of duplication of services, avoidance of waste of money and avoidance of unnecessary escalation of the number of people employed in the public service, using that term in its broad sense. We in Australia cannot afford to have an undue escalation of this type of outlay. We need a well balanced work force, bearing in mind actual production and the administration of that production. 
I desire to ask a question of the Attorney-General. What are the implications in respect to interstate trade generally, vis-a-vis section 92 of the Constitution, consequent on the High Court's ruling which upheld Tasmanian State laws preventing the sale of cooking margarine which has been flavoured or coloured to resemble butter? Does the High Court's ruling usher in a new concept in interstate trade generally? Does it mean that any State may now prohibit the import of any given commodity from another State, thus over-riding section 92 of the Constitution? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Towards the end of last year an investigation was made by officers of the Department of Primary Industry and the Lands Department of South Australia into problems of finance and rentals confronting war service settlers on Kangaroo Island, to enable a general review of the situation there. What is the current position in respect of this review? When will the determinations in respect of it be announced? Further, is it a fact that recently the South Australian Minister of Lands, the Director of Lands and soldier settler representatives of zone 5 in South Australia conferred with the Minister for Primary Industry in an endeavour to resolve problems in regard to rentals and related matters? What has been the outcome of this conference? Finally, will a determination favourable to zone 5 settlers flow on to a similar betterment of the position of the Kangaroo Island settlers? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity of Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of widespread uncertainty in the minds of investors in the share market as to which profitable transactions will attract tax and which transactions will constitute a capital increment, will consideration be given by the Government to issuing a White Paper clarifying these ambiguous issues? Further, will steps be taken to ensure that interpretations of the Income Tax Act in respect of share dealings will be- uniform throughout Australia? 
Has the attention of  the Minister for Health been directed to references in yesterday's Melbourne Herald' and today's 'Australian' and Canberra Times' to an intensive search being made across the United Kingdom for the balance of a batch of intravenous fluid - a 5 per cent dextrose solution - believed to be contaminated following the death of 5 people in a Plymouth hospital who were given this fluid as liquid food? As the name of the British manufacturer is referred to in the Press reports I ask the Minister whether he will check, through his Department, to see whether there have been imports of this brand of dextrose solution. If there have been imports, will appropriate action be taken to ensure the withdrawal of the solution from the market, pending analysis? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the growing need, both economic and social, for action to be taken to relieve the problems arising from inordinate growth of our capital cities, as against country centres, will the Government give urgent consideration to the objectives enunciated by the Australian Council for Balanced Development, which seek to ease the pressure on capital cities through intensively promoting provincial growth centres and to consolidate development in country areas by the continuation and extension of the aids currently provided by the various State decentralisation and development departments? Will consideration be given to a major Commonwealth Government involvement, in conjunction with the States, to assist in the attainment of the Council's objectives? 
The Committee was dealing with item 4 of the report which dealt with standing order 64. 
That further consideration of item 4 relating to proposed amendments to standing order 64 be postponed. 
That would enable the Committee to put aside consideration of that item. The Committee is in difficulty about the item. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item S (Manner of asking questions on notice Standing Orders 98 to 103). 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Health) (5.22) - Paragraphs 13 and 14 of the report of the Standing Orders Committee read: 
Under present practice, when Questions arc being broadcast or are to be re-broadcast, Senators read their Questions on Notice in full, unless by agreement they are incorporated in Hansard. On the other hand, when the proceedings are not being broadcast, a  Senator wishing  to read a Question on Notice must in accordance with the present practice ask leave of the Senate. As leave of the Senate is never refused, it is considered time-wasting to continue the practice of asking for leave and it is recommended that a  Senator be  allowed to read a Question on Notice if he so wishes. 
However, Senators should continue to indicate to the  Clerk  at the Table those Questions on Notice which they specifically wish to have answered orally rather than be incorporated in Hansard. The strong recommendation is made that, as far as possible, Questions on Notice and replies be incorporated in Hansard and that an oral Question and reply be requested only when it is considered specially desirable. 
The object of the recommendation is to eliminate the need for seeking leave to ask a question on notice. The Senate has always given leave. There has never been a refusal to give leave. Previously there was a reason for seeking leave. I think the Senate has gone through that stage and into a new stage. I move: 
That the recommendations contained in paragraph 13 and 14 be agreed to. 
 I direct to 'he Minister for Civil Aviation a  question that  concerns the serving of imported brandy in the bars a' our major airports. Is it a fact that it is the practice in a number of these bars to serve the imported spirit unless the Aus ralian spirit is specifically requested and insisted upon? If so, does not this constitute a blatant promotion of imported brandy in an area where the local product logically should be right in the forefront and readily available to both Australian and overseas travellers? Will the Minister have this matter investigated? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to an article which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' last Friday relating to the expressed intention of at least 2 Canadian artificial breeding centres to export cattle semen to Australia by March 1973 following the relaxation in mid February of the embargo on such imports? As the dreaded cattle disease blue tongue is suffered in Canada, are adequate precautions being taken to protect our cattle industry from such diseases as a result of the importation of cattle semen from that country? 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Consideration resumed. 
I suggest that is one way to deal with the problem. There are other ways in which it could be done, but I would think it preferable that these matters ought to be dealt with in Bills rather than be left to a regulation making power in view of the history of the matter. Honourable senators may be interested to learn that the Regulations and Ordinances Committee took up the matter and referred in its 39th report to the question of regulations rendered invalid by judgment of the High Court. In paragraph 6 of its report it states: 
It would appear that, as a result of this decision 
That is the High Court decision -   . . the Dried Fruits Export Control (Election of Board) Regulations and the Dairy Produce Export Control (Election of Board) Regulations are also invalid in part. 
That ought to be cleared up for the sake of the citizens who deal with those bodies. I would ask that the Minister, if he has an opportunity in the future, take steps to see to it that perhaps the whole of these primary producer board elections and provisions for disputed elections are dealt with in a similar way. Perhaps it could be done by reference to some central piece of legislation rather than by leaving it in the area mostly of subordinate legislation under which we might get into difficulties. 
The other matter which was referred to in the Minister's second reading speech is dealt with in clause 14 of the Bill. The question of remuneration raised by  Senator Little  is, of course, now in accordance with the procedures initiated in the Senate, dealt with, not as a matter for determination by the Higher Salaries Board but as a matter to be determined by the Parliament. We fix the salaries rather than allow them to be determined outside of the Parliament on the recommendation of some' such body as the Higher Salaries Board. 
1 wish to add my voice of concern in respect of the matter which has been raised by  Senator Webster  and  Senator Poyser  in regard to the provisions of transport between a member's place of residence and the airport. I live 42 miles from Adelaide - just about 16 miles beyond the perimeter of what is now called the metropolitan area. There is no public means of transport by road or rail from my home town to Adelaide. To me it is quite incongruous that whereas I have freedom to sign vouchers to travel by air anywhere in Australia in connection with my representative duties as a member of Parliament. I am denied the right to travel for 10 minutes by car from my home. It costs me more in telephone calls than it would cost to send a car the additional distance to my home. In my opinion it is one of those unreal situations. I do not seek a privilege or concession that could not be regarded as reasonable. 1 believe we are too rigidly encompassed in respect of the 30-mile radius. In my case I can drive to Adelaide and park the car there for the week, or drive down to Gawler which is 16 miles from my home and leave the car on the side of the road to be picked up later. Alternatively I can be driven down by my wife or another member of my family and on my re ruin from Canberra, often late at night, 1 will need to have a car waiting for me at Gawler as there is no other means cf conveyance back to my home town. 
I have indicated the situation that applies to me and no doubt applies to other honourable senators. I am grateful to  Senator Webster  for having raised this matter because I believe the position is incongruous and not in accordance with a reasonable attitude to costs in providing a necessary facility for members. I heartily support the other 2 senators who have made representations tonight. I have made representations to the Minister on *.his matter, but without success. I hope that this discussion tonight will lead to a reconsideration of the whole situation with a view to removing what I regard as a major anomaly in the provisions for members of Parliament. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation: Is it a fact that Australian insurance companies have announced that they will not issue cover against property damage which might result from supersonic aircraft boom? Will the Minister ascertain the reasons why the insurance companies have applied this restriction? Will this matter be investigated with a view to such cover being made available to those who desire it to be included in their comprehensive property insurances? 
1 address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the highly successful wool sales which were conducted yesterday by the private enterprise wool marketing organisation, Economic Wool Producers Ltd? Has the Department of Primary Industry made an evaluation of the monetary advantages which could accrue to the wool industry generally from greater use of the selling procedures and techniques adopted by this organisation? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation been drawn to the warm and spontaneous acts of loyalty and support by employees of Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to their organisation as instanced by the wave of protests emanating from them in respect of any possible takeover of the organisation, and by their purchase of Ansett shares as reported in today's 'Financial Review'? As this spirit of loyalty is rather unique in the business world today and would be reflected in dedicated application by employees to all phases of operations within the organisation, and therefore safety in air travel, will this aspect be given full consideration by the Department of Civil Aviation in its interest in the future of our 2-airline system as now constituted? 
I present the report from the Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to 2 petitions seeking co-operation and financial assistance for crime prevention, together with certain documents and correspondence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for External Territories. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to articles recently issued by the Public Service Association in Papua New Guinea expressing concern of expatriate public servants regarding their future with the advent of self-government for the Territory? ls it a fact that resignations of public servants are at a scale which could impair our capacity to continue adequately preparing tie indigenes in the necessary numbers to take over government and administrative responsibilities eventually? Will the Government take such action as would ensure to expatriate public servants, first, the maintenance of salary scales and promotion opportunities for those remaining in Papua New Guinea and, secondly, the continuation of superannuation rights to ensure the security of those who remain in Papua New Guinea after self-government is granted? 
I present the report of the Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to the Clutha Development Project. 
Ordered that the report be printed.  Senator LAUCKE  - I move: That  Mie  Senate  take  note of  the  paper. This report is a brief and largely formal one and does not flow from a programme of committee activity completed in the normal way. So far as I am aware, this is the first occasion on which a committee has found that the need for an inquiry into the subject of a reference has vanished before the programme relating to that reference, has actually been planned and put into operation. Perhaps it would not be a miss for me to recount briefly what has happened in respect of this reference. It was received on 7th December 1971, 3 days before the Senate rose for the Christmas recess. At the time, the Committee was heavily involved with the initial stages of a major inquiry under another reference and was unable to consider the Clutha reference until its first meeting in 1972. However, the formal announcement that Clutha Development Pty Limited had abandoned the project was made on 8th February, a few days before the Committee's first meeting in 1972. 
Having noted that the project was not to proceed, the Committee sought from the New South Wales Minister for Mines clarification as to whether any residual rights under the State legislation or the agreement between the New South Wales Government and the company would remain with Clutha Development Pty Limited or any associated company. As an assurance on this point has been received the Committee is of the view that an inquiry under the terms of reference is no longer required. Accordingly, the Committee formally reports these circumstances to the Senate in the belief that its responsibilities under this reference should be discharged by this process in the normal way. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Mulvihill)  adjourned. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry to a question I recently asked the Minister concerning war service land settlers in South Australia, with particular reference to rental and financial problems being experienced by war service settlers on Kangaroo Island. As these problems are similar to those experienced by soldier settlers in Zone 5 in South Australia, I again ask whether the favourable determinations made in respect of Zone 5 settlers will flow on and provide similar betterment of the position of Kangaroo Island settlers? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to a question that I asked recently of the Minister about the sale of imported brandy at our major airports. I then asked whether it was the practice of the concessionaires to promote imported brandy in preference to the Australian product. I now ask: Has the matter been investigated and what has been the outcome of the investigation? 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that articles and personal effects imported into Australia by members of overseas consular or diplomatic services stationed here are exempt from import duties in accordance with general international practice? Are there corresponding provisions in our sales tax regulations for sales tax exemptions to be allowed to those people on similar goods of Australian manufacture? If not, will consideration be given to granting such sales tax exemptions in the interests of promotion of Australian goods, such as motor vehicles, refrigerators and the like, in an area of sales interest which could lead to increased export sales? 
I  present the report of Estimates Committee D on the Additional Estimates for' the year 1971-72, together with the Hansard transcript of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I would like to express gratification for this Bill which will provide a guarantee for a loan to Papua New Guinea. The amount involved, $3. 8m, is not insignificant. The money will be of real assistance to this emerging country in its own right. 1 am very proud to note what has been achieved in Papua New Guinea by Australia and its governments through the years. I think that we have a record of achievement in Papua New Guinea which is a source of gratification and pride. We have achieved there something that is acclaimed throughout the world as being an operation which has assisted the indigenous people mightily. 
We have the best of relations with the peoples of the Territory. Our record has not been one of exploitation of the peoples, as has been suggested by  Senator Keeffe  and refuted by  Senator McManus.  I think that great benefit has accrued to the local peoples from the investments that have been made in Papua New Guinea Certainly, there could be individual instances and situations which could be regarded as untoward and unfortunate. But on the whole  -  I want to stress this point - we have a proud record in that country, lt is good to see the good feelings that exist now. I wish this young, virile and emerging country well in its future development. I hope that for many generations ahead we shall have close and happy associations with Papua New Guinea, as we have had in the past. I have pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
I would like to express my appreciation to  Senator Byrne  for the attitude he has adopted towards the proposal to refer this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. If we are to have a really effective committee system, one which can inquire into and report upon certain matters, it would be a pity to have on the Notice Paper a series of references which could not be attended to for quite a long time. Above all, I sense in  Senator Byrne's  attitude towards this matter the protection of a system which is becoming more important to the Senate and to the parliamentary institution generally. We do not want a committee system which is inundated with references. We do not want a seemingly endless chain of matters for it to inquire into. Rather I think we should refer certain matters to committees for expeditious inquiry and report. It should be possible to have existing references completed and then to move for further references to go to committees. 
The attitude suggested by  Senator Byrne  is an excellent one. Without going into the merits or demerits of any particular reference, I think that this attitude is the most conductive in the long term to the successful operation of our new committee system. I very heartily concur with the suggestion made by  Senator Byrne. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the 1971 report of the Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers Council's Shipping Committee and the recommendations made therein, which are the result of extensive investigations within Australia and overseas, into the possibility of providing an improved and cheaper shipping service for the Australian wool clip? If so, can the Minister indicate what action has been taken, or is being contemplated, in respect to the Committee's recommendations? 
 Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a statement made by  Mr Jeffrey  Penfold-Hyland,  President  of the Federal Wine and Brandy Producers Council of Australia, that wine sales had risen by a meagre 0.2 per cent in 1970- 71 as against an average annual growth rate of 1 1 per cent for some years prior to the imposition of the 50c per gallon excise on wine and urging an early announcement of the Government's decision in respect of the excise, in the light of the Grant inquiry and report? To what stage has governmental consideration gone in respect of this report? When can the grape growing and wine making industries expect to have the Government's decision? 
I address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative in this place of the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to the estimate put forward by  Mr M.  J. Story, of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, Melbourne, at the Clean Air Conference yesterday, that the cost of air pollution control required of Australian industry in order to conform to the various Australian clean air Acts over the 5-year period from 1971 to 1976 could be of the order of $ 1,000m? As these costs to industry are economically unproductive, in the main, will the Government give early consideration to increasing depreciation allowances on pollution control equipment to encourage and assist industry in meeting air pollution problems, as recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the serious implication to the beef industry arising from the ban imposed on export of beef carcasses bearing signs in any part of tuberculosis infection having been suffered by the animal, can the Minister say whether consideration is being given to early implementation of a national compensation plan to give a degree of security to beef producers pending complete eradication of bovine tuberculosis? 
 I wish briefly to express my opposition to this clause. I believe that it is absolutely essential that inflationary pressures in our economy be countered. There is an imbalance in our wage structure generally which I think is unhealthy and unfair, with big percentage increases being granted to people in the high salary bracket. They are receiving increments far beyond those to which they are justly entitled. At the other end of the scale wage increases could well be considered in the interests of facilitating and providing decent living standards for the whole community. We should be prepared to go further than pay lip service to an attitude of opposition to the pressures within our economy to which I have referred, and really to get down to tin tacks and in practical ways ensure a better balance of productivity with wage increases. 
I know that we cannot have complete paralleling of lines at that point, but I object to a situation - the expression 'pacesetter' has been used this afternoon - in which increments to people in Federal circles set a pace for other areas of governmental administration which have an impact in the private sector. An imbalance is created and a fair thing overall is not achieved. For those reasons I will not be subscribing to the clause in its present form. 
 Senator Turnbull,  I must indicate to you that there has been no resolution of the Senate in respect to its rising at 4.30 p.m. An agreement was arrived at to that effect. 
Order! The Minister must be heard in silence. 
The TEMPORARY CHAIRMANOrder!  Senator Poke  will cease interjecting. 
Order! Order must prevail in this chamber. The Attorney-General has the right to speak and there must be silence while he is speaking. 
That the Committee report progress and ask leave to sit again. 
Agreements are not within the province of the Chair, lt is within the province of the Chair to rule on motions, but not on agreements that one hears about. 

 Senator Murphy -  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I rise on a point of order. I put to the Committee that not only was there an agreement, but a motion was moved by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  and he stated the basis of that motion. It is true that he did not incorporate '4.30 p.m.' in the words of the motion, but he stated to the Senate that we would sit until then. That appears in Hansard. Every member of the Senate voted on that motion on the basis on which it was put by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate, and the Chair should take note of the basis upon which the motion was put. I ask the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate to exert his authority and see that the basis upon which the motion was put is observed. How can there be discipline, how can there be order, if the basis upon which matters are dealt with is not observed by the Government which stated the basis. The Senate acted on the basis which was put to it by the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Now we have the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  disobeying- 
Progress reported. 
We now proceed to deal with the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee A. The question is: 
That the votes for the group of departments covered by Estimates Committee A be now passed without requests. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
I wish to ask the Minister a question. Does what he has said mean that there could be variations in determinations by the various Deputy Commissioners of Taxation in the different States? Herein has lain a difficulty in the past, as interpretations vary from one Deputy Commissioner to another Deputy Commissioner. I would like to know whether this past experience of varying determinations could continue under this legislation or will determinations definitely be uniform in all States? 
I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply a question relating to an announcement made yesterday in another place by the Minister for Supply that the Island Lagoon tracking station near Woomera in South Australia would be closed if planned alterations to the American space programme were carried out. What effect would this have on the activities at the Weapons Research Establishment at Salisbury? Will consideration be given to alternative operation of the facilities at Woomera or Salis-  bury to take up any slack that may arise? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a statement made by  Mr Allan  Preece,  President  of the Federal Grapegrowers' Council of Australia, that imported brandy is now displacing the equivalent of 7,000 tons of wine grapes a year on the local market? Can the Minister indicate what is being done to overcome this situation which presents a major threat to the ability of grape growers to dispose of their production in future vintages? 
 I address my question to the Acting Leader of the Government who this morning is the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can the Minister obtain statistics which would indicate the number of employees in private industry in Australia whose salaries or wages exceed $15,000 a year and the number of employees in public service in Australia who come into this category? If these statistics are available, will he obtain them for me? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ask the Minister for Primary Industry to give further consideration to the request of the Upper Murray ExServicemen's Land Settlement Association in South Australia for a review of valuations of members' lands, on the specific grounds of the necessity to replace original plantings of citrus and other fruit trees consequent upon incorrect advice on the suitability of certain areas for such plantings? Will further consideration be given to requests from the ex-servicemen for the writing off of accumulated debts to the Government, arising from the ill advised plantings and other personally unavoidable conditions and disabilities? 
I wish to express briefly my support for the Government's intention to maintain the present level of assistance by the payment of a bounty on locally manufactured agricultural tractors for a period of 6 months until the end of this year, unless an earlier date of cessation is specified by proclamation. I believe that the provisions of the Bill are fair and reasonable pending the receipt by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  of the Tariff Board's report and a consideration of that report by him and the Government. I understand that the cost of maintaining the present level of assistance for the next 6 months will be about $1.5m. I stress that the purpose of the bounty is not to increase the price of agricultural tractors to primary producers; its purpose is to enable local manufacture to compete with the imported machine. The volume of production in Australia does not enable local industry to achieve the same cost of production as can be achieved by countries which have a large volume of production, but in the bounty mechanism there is an inherent safeguard for the local primary producer in that the price that he pays for a tractor is determined by the price at which a tractor brought into Australia is offered on the Australian market. With this Bill we are ensuring that an important manufacturing industry is able to continue in Australia. The reasons for the Bill being brought in are quite clear to us all and I suggest that it is only fair and reasonable that the Bill be accepted by the Senate. J support the Bill. 
i have a few words to say in relation to this Victoria Grant (Millewa Pipelines) Bill. I warmly support the Victorian grant for the Millewa pipeline realising that in the rather drier areas water supply by reticulation is indeed basic to a reasonable expectation of making full use of given areas of land. I also warmly endorse the remarks of  Senator McLaren  in relation to the need in South Australia for the Loch-Kimba pipeline to be proceeded with expeditiously. Honourable senators from both sides of the chamber have sought to have the pipeline constructed. For many years with the producers in that area - this is a very important part of the Eyre Peninsular in South Australia - we have sought to have this water reticulation scheme provided to enable the full potentiality of that area to be realised, agriculturally. Through the years there have been very great outlays on the part of primary producers in carting water over long distances to maintain their stock in the region of the proposed Loch-Kimba pipeline. I support this Bill. .Again I endorse the remarks in relation to the need for urgent consideration and determination to be made in relation to the provision of the long sought after Loch-Kimba pipeline in South Australia. 
Will the Minister who represents the Prime Minister in this place ascertain the number of physically handicapped persons employed in the Commonwealth Public Service? Is special consideration given to facilitating the employment of such persons? If not, will thought be given to the establishment of generous and understanding criteria to determine the eligibility of physically handicapped persons for suitable employment in appropriate areas within the Public Service? 
 I asked whether it was the desire of the Committee to take the Bill as a whole, and  Senator Keeffe  rose in his place.  Senator Keeffe,  to which clause do you direct your remarks? 
This is an excellent Budget from whatever angle it is viewed. It is imaginative and comprehensive. It covers practically every facet of economic, community and social interest. It is generous and, above all. it is responsible. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said when introducing this most important national financial document of the year, it is 'geared to achieve social and economic goals of significance to all Australians and particularly families'. It would be impossible to present a budget of the magnitude of this one without the background of a basically sound economy, properly serviced and directed by sound governments, and good policies over the last 23 years. To achieve a budgetary capacity in excess of $ 10,000m from a figure of $1,1 68m some 20 years ago, in 1950-51. clearly indicates the terrific growth of our overall economy. That is not fortuitous. It does not happen of its own volition and accord. Such growth has to be based on policies which give incentive to individuals and do not deny rewards for effort to those who make the effort. 
I was pleased to see that the Budget embraced Liberal principles in regard to pensions and the abolition of the means test, which is to be implemented within 3 years. In the meantime the means test will be extended. This has been a feature in recent years of the Government's policy relating to the provision of social services. The elongation of the means test was designed to encourage what is regarded in many quarters today as something that is not to be rated very highly, namely, the virtue of thrift by the individual and the ability of the individual to think for himself and achieve better things through his own initiative. Those basic attributes are being promoted in this Budget. I applaud the Government for its decision to abolish the means test within 3 years. There is to be a major alleviation of the hardship caused by the imposition of estate duty. The statutory exemption rate is to be double that which is now in existence. Estate duty is an area of taxation which I feel is not conductive to the general well being either of the community or the nation at large because of the inherent disincentive implied in taking from the family organisation the rewards of effort over many years during which taxation has been paid year after year by the person or family. Briefly, those are what I regard as being close adherences to the basic principle of assisting the individual to better himself by giving him the initiative and the incentive to do so. That principle is being applied in this Budget. 
The aims of the Budget, which are of great importance to every Australian, are, in the first instance, growth and development, lt is true that in recent years there has been a propensity on the part of those persons who can afford to do so to put money aside in savings bank and in the process not create local demands, which has led to a lag in the growth rate of the economy, which is not what we would like to see. Whilst I have applauded before, and I applaud again, the ideal of independence and the encouragement of thrift it is also very necessary that the economy be kept moving in the confident background of knowledge that we have the ability to spend money responsibly and still have savings on which to fall back if necessary or with which to buy those things that we have long term aspirations to obtain. Growth in the economy will come from factors in this Budget which are not in themselves inflationary. This is where I noted with great satisfaction the reductions in income tax rates and the increases in social benefits - in pensions and so on - that are designed to put into the pocket of the individual more immediate spending capacity power. This will lead to growth and development in what is in actual fact the biggest demand area within our economy, namely, the local consumer area of goods and services and the growth and development of industry will follow from a freer spending of money by individuals. 
A responsible attitude has been adopted by the Government to defence. The Budget provides for an increased allocation for expenditure on defence generally despite a reduction in the number of those in the armed forces. Industry, which is the very basis of a sound economy, is to be further fostered in many ways. The Budget also provides for an improved and extended social welfare programme. All of these matters are the background to ensuring better conditions for the populace of the nation generally. The overriding purpose of the Budget is to boost the economy back to strong but sustainable growth, which is a very responsible attitude to adopt. The sum of Si 06m is to be provided for the strengthening of our defence. The amounts which have been provided for in the Budget for further fostering industry, which range from the $20m increase to $33.7m for assistance to the local ship building industry to the $20m provided for further financial assistance to rural industry and another proposal which has been referred to could lead to the provision of rural finance in a different way that is of long term benefit to rural industry generally. 
It must not be forgotten that our rural industries still supply more than half of our overseas credit. I think we are prone to overlook this very important fact. Rural industry in Australia will at all times play a very important part in the overall economy of the country. It is good to see large increases in the export of minerals and the moneys that come through to us as a nation from those exports and it is good to see our manufacturing industries increasing their penetration of overseas markets with their products, but I feel that we have at all times to retain in our minds acceptance of the high importance of the rural basis of our whole economy. 
The fruit growing industry, which is an industry of very great importance to South Australia and which provides decentralised industry in that State, is one industry which I am pleased to see is to receive an amount of $4.6m under the Budget to assist in the removal of surplus trees by growers of canning peaches and pears and fresh apples and pears. The sum of $2m will be spent this year in that direction. The fruit growing industry in South Australia provides directly and indirectly a livelihood for many people. The canning industry, which is an integral part of the fruit growing industry, has been in a very difficult situation for a long time. Its adverse situation has been accentuated by the adverse effects of the monetary revaluations of overseas countries and the benefits which have come to some of our competitors in the process of these variations. With that in mind I would say that it is very essential that assistance to both the canning and the fruit growing industries in this country will have to continue to be provided in the way in which it is provided in this year's Budget and in the reconstruction scheme until more clearly defined situation emerges. 
The amount of money which is to be provided to the States is indeed pleasing to everybody, particularly to those who believe in the federal system of government. The allocation to the States by the Commonwealth this year will increase by $395m to just under $3,500m, which indicates a basic belief by the Government in the continuation of the federal system. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
 This afternoon I want to make special reference to the assistance to industry which is being given in this Budget. I regard this assistance as a major feature of the Budget. It is to operate throughout the rural, secondary and mining sectors of our economy. I have found from studying the Budget papers closely that one can define Commonwealth assistance to industry into 3 main channels. They are, firstly, direct payments by way of bounties, subsidies and other grants; secondly, contributions to promotion and research; and thirdly, special taxation concessions. These 3 headings in themselves are very interesting when one seeks to divide that which is forthcoming from this Budget as assistance to industry. Bounties and subsidies, whilst in some instances assisting directly in maintaining price levels, in others are applied for the purpose of making production more efficient because they reduce production costs. Contributions to promotion in overseas markets as well as the  home market in the sale of our products, and the research being applied in order to increase the efficiency of our production, represent very healthy attitudes to adopt towards our economy. The special taxation concessions are bigger than they appear at first sight. I notice that total payments to rural industry are estimated in this Budget to amount to $233m. 
The situation often is misconstrued when figures are given but these figures have been taken out of the Budget papers, and the estimate this financial year is $233m. Last year payments to rural industry totalled $297m and in 1970- 71 they totalled $210m. This year the allocation to rural industry has been decreased by $64m but this is largely due to the fall of S58m in the requirement for wool deficiency payments which follows the very pleasing recover^' in wool prices. 
Estimated payments to manufacturing and mining industries have increased by $29m. This financial year Commonwealth contributions to promotion and research other than through the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation are to rise by $122,000 but expenditure by the CSIRO on activities undertaken for the benefit of Australian industry is to rise by not less than S5m this financial year. I regard these figures as extremely satisfactory. 1 should like to pay tribute this afternoon to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for its achievements for the nation's benefit over many years. We have gained enormously from the activities of this organisation, lt has enabled Australia in many categories of production, in both the rural and secondary sectors, to be equal to the best in the world in methods of production. This achievement has resulted from  findings  and recommendations of the CSIRO. 

 I refer next to taxation concessions from which the loss in revenue in 1972-73 is estimated to be no less than $300m. That is a lot of money to be left in the hands of individuals and business organisations. This loss of revenue, which I have said is estimated to be $300m for the ensuing financial year, could well increase as the mining, mining exploration and other indus tries expand their activities in the near future. It appears that this sort of expansion will take place. Assistance is to be given to rural industry. The investment allowance will cost the revenue $7m this year and the special depreciation allowances will cost the revenue an estimated  SI  2m. lt is significant that the special averaging provision for income tax which will apply to incomes of primary producers and which was estimated to have cost $22m in the past year could cost produce an even greater saving this year for rural producers. These are real figures and they will mean something in the pockets of rural producers. 
Among other assistance to rural industry we find in the Budget a drought bond scheme, an export market development rebate, special deductions for certain capital expenditure and also a decreased cost of telephone installation in rural areas. An additional  SI  6m will be provided for rural reconstruction in the coming year in accordance with the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for debt reconstruction, farm build-up and rehabilitation. Again this is real money being applied in areas of real need, and it is an outlay which is constructive in character. Under the supplementary fruit growing reconstruction scheme $4.6m is provided for a tree pull compensation scheme Of that amount $2m is to be spent in the coming year. As a short term measure the maximum payment under the stabilisation scheme is to apply to another 500.000 bushels of apples and pears for the 1972 export season. This will be of great assistance to producers of these fruits. An additional provision of S1.5m has been made for the dried vine fruit stabilisation scheme in the coming year to support the expected reduction in average returns following the much larger sultana pack from the 1972 fruit season. The additional money to be made available will benefit production in no small way and will enable more fruit to be dried instead of being put to other uses, such as wine making, in which field some difficulties of distribution are being experienced in certain areas of production. 
The subsidy scheme to reduce the wholesale price of certain petroleum products in rural areas will cost an additional $1.6m because of the increased consumption in those areas. This assistance will  offset some of the unavoidable cost increases borne by those who are engaged in rural industries and who live in isolated areas. I welcome, as much as I do other assistance to be given, the once-and-for-all grant, so described in the Budget Papers, for the egg industry to provide assistance to the industry while the present very large stocks of egg pulp are on hand. Those stocks will need to be cleared before a reasonably sound condition can be returned to this industry which is quite important over large areas of Australia. I hope that before long we will have a situation in which the poultry industry will again in its own right, through an orderly approach to production and distribution, be on a better footing than has been the case in recent years. This assistance of $750,000 comes at a critical time for this industry and will enable it to carry through a very difficult period. 
The new 5-year stabilisation plan for the dairying industry which began on 1st July this year, together with bounty payments on butter and cheese, is estimated to cost $28. 5m. The nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy which has been extended until the end of December 1974 had been due to expire in October of this year. This also will be of major assistance to rural producers, particularly in the citrus and other fruit growing areas, and will enable them to produce more efficiently than would have been possible without access to this fertiliser at a low price. The further allocation in the Budget of $700,000 for rural promotion and research will implement and develop the pre-sale objective measurement of wool. In addition, $27m is provided towards the cost of financing the joint industry - government wool research and promotion programmes. Money is available in the Budget for other rural research in respect of wheat, meat, dairying, fishing, tobacco, the estimated cost of this assistance being $4.5m. 
This Budget appears to me to be all-embracing. In every aspect of rural interest consideration appears to have been given in a worthwhile way to problems facing the rural producer. When we turn to what is provided to ensure an expanding manufacturing industry in a healthier condition than we have experienced in the last year or so, we find that there is an estimated increase of more that $28m in direct payments to manufacturing industry. Of this amount $20m relates to the shipbuilding subsidy. This will provide for higher rates of subsidy, an extension of the scheme and an expected increase in the number and value of new ships to be ordered in the coming year. This also will promote local industry in a very desirable way. It will ensure full employment and will retain in Australian industry the skills which we need in times of peace and which would be vital to us in times of national stress. The Budget provides for an increase of $9. 3m in the assistance provided under the export incentive scheme, which is a real boon to progressive industrial and manufacturing organisations in Australia. Here again we have a very constructive direction of money to encourage growth and expansion in industry. The more we can promote our products, both here and in overseas markets, the more we can ensure that we have a growing background of industry and an ability to provide for a greater population whilst maintaining the highest possible living standards. Industrial research and development grants will involve an additional expenditure of $lm this year. 
I turn now to the investment allowance, which I note resulted in a loss to revenue of $45m last year. The investment allowance will be of real assistance to industry in keeping machinery modern and efficient. I welcome the re-introduction of the allowance. I have no doubt that it is one of the most important factors in achieving the lowest possible unit production cost. 
-My colleague is most generous. I have certainly always had a keen understanding and appreciation of the need for industry to be able, over a period of years, to depreciate the value of machinery so that plant can be replaced without drawing unduly on working capital. The investment allowance leaves liquidity within an organisation without depriving it of an opportunity to have the most modern plant available. It is an instrument of particular importance to the smaller units of production - the small manufacturers in Australia. Without it these undertakings would not have the efficiency that ls so necessary to enable them to compete against the very large organisations. So, throughout the Budget, there is this thread of consideration for all sectors and ail people, as it were, engaged in industry, be it in rural or secondary industry. 
I pass on now to the mining industry. I notice that it has been estimated that payments to the mining industry will rise by $900,000, following a decline in payments to that industry of $2.4m in 1971-72. I hope 1 will be pardoned for quoting a lot of figures this afternoon, but I want to put them on record in order to impress honourable senators of the high importance that one can read into them. The petroleum search subsidy is to be increased by $2.4m, bringing total expenditure on this item in 1972-73 to $10m. The sum of $I.3m is to be allocated to the gold mining industry. Coal research is estimated to cost $260,000, which is the same amount as the allocation last year. The sizeable taxation concessions provided to the mining industry include special depreciation allowances for plant used in mining and exploration, the exemption of certain mining profits from taxation, special provisions for moneys paid on shares for the purpose of exploration, prospecting and mining, and concessional treatment of some capital expenditure and transportation costs incurred in certain mineral production. In my opinion all of those concessions bear the mark of people who understand what makes the clock tick in industry. 
I think 1 have reasonably covered everything to which I wish to make reference this afternoon. Before resuming my seat, however, I wish to point out that in addition to the various forms of assistance to which I have made reference a number of services and facilities are provided by Commonwealth departments and through payments to the States, which are also of major assistance to industries throughout Australia. A few examples of those are the services provided by the departments of Primary Industry, Trade and Industry and National Development as well as the assistance given to the States for natural disaster relief, beef cattle roads, water resource projects and the like. In this one area of governmental assistance in the Budget - that is, Commonwealth assistance to industry - one can read into the figures and the reasons which are given from time to time for them the fact that we have here a foundation on which the economy of our country may be said to be well founded with prospects of growth in the future. I commend the Treasurer for having introduced these measures in the very comprehensive and understanding way in which he has done so. I have great pleasure indeed in supporting the adoption of the Budget Papers. 
As  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment I have listened with great interest to honourable senators who have taken part in the discussion and debate on the reference given to the Committee by the Senate on 13th May last year. It is a very precise reference which excludes any reference to a series of books or the directory as a whole in certain States. This was mentioned by  Senator Wilkinson.  The reference was specifically to inquire into and report on: 
The content, form and presentation of the Information Section of Telephone Directories . . . 
The reference was quite specific, lt was in relation only to the information pages of the directories. 
Information, as we interpreted the word, was information leading to a better ability to find those things being sought by users of directories and telephone users generally. So the reference was specific. In this case we did not go beyond the specific terms of reference. 
Yes, I was just coming to that. No submission made to us made reference to the particular aspect to which the honourable senator referred, namely, the breaking up of the directories into districts and so on, which has been the subject of discussion and criticism in this chamber from time to time. I was extremely, interested to hear what the Attorney-General had to say in speaking on behalf of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  who went right through the conclusions to which the Committee came in respect of this reference. The AttorneyGeneral indicated what the Department has done and what it will do in respect of these conclusions and recommendations. To note the acceptance,- in nearly all instances, of the recommendations is to me and the members of my : Committee very gratifying. The Committee is very grateful for the superb co-operation it received from the Department during, the course of this inquiry; it was quite magnificent. 1 point out. also that it has been made very obvious to the Committee that this matter of better presentation of the information pages in telephone directories has been given very great consideration by the Department from time 'to time. In 1968 the Department, recognising' the need for a. fresh approach to the presentation of the information pages, engaged, ah industrial design expert to assist in overcoming certain problems involved. The information page lay-out which applied before the most recent publications was largely the result of the recommendations 'of the 'consultant. This is essentially a matter for the experts. We received only a few submissions. Having sought submissions throughout Australia on this matter, this was a disappointing result. When  Senator Byrne  introduced this proposal to the Senate he thought that this was a matter of wide and great concern. It did not, we found later, excite the interest which we anticipated it would and we had to fall back very heavily on expertise in industrial advertising organisations and various other organisations. We consulted very closely with the PostmasterGeneral's Department. I. was deeply impressed with the interest and action taken by the Department to ensure a better presentation of the information pages. 
I will not reiterate what has been stated by  Senator Greenwood  in regard to the action which has been taken in relation to the Committee's conclusions and recommendations. I applaud the decision of the Senate to devote some time each Thursday for the purpose of discussing Committee reports. Without this time being set aside, the past experience of rather interminable deferment of discussion of these matters would have persisted. It is a matter of some concern - particularly in the light of what transpired today - that of the first  3  hours after the Senate meets on Thursday, there is not very much time left to discuss committee reports, allowing for the time taken up by question time and in dealing with other formal business of the Senate. If this situation should worsen - that is, if this time should be used more and more for other purposes - the very good intent of the Senate in setting aside time for discussion of Committee reports could well be thwarted to a degree which would prevent the effective consideration which we would all like to see given to Committee reports. 1 have been asked: 'How come a reference such as this was made to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment?' I have thought about this question. Social environment encompasses a tremendous range of interests, which is evident from the wide variety of subjects referred by the Senate to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment. The word environment' taken alone immediately conjures up in one's mind those elements of nature which constitute the immediate surroundings in any given place. They include the prevailing geographical and climatic conditions, aesthetic factors, such as natural vegetation, trees, greenery and open space, and so on. Indeed, it would encompass all those considerations which give a particular character to any given location. The environment as such is in the public mind in this sort of . context. But when we refer to the social environment it opens up a terrific area of interest impinging On the very way of living in almost every facet of the social and economic life in the nation. The fact that the Committee on Social Environment has referred to it the matter of telephone directories was in accord with this extremely wide area which the social environment encompasses. 
References which come to this Committee in very great numbers need to be watched to assure that the Committee does not have imposed upon it too heavy a programme because of its innate nature and breadth and depth of interest.- This would prevent those things being done which are sought to be done under the committee system. Like  Senator Byrne,  I have always had the feeling or the impression when listening to debates in relation to the formation of standing committees that essentially they would be bodies set up to look at a given problem expeditiously and report back to the Senate quickly- getting away from the select committee system. It was my impression that standing committees should provide an avenue of quick look and quick report. But we are now finding that those matters hitherto,, referred to select committees are now being referred to standing committees. I just Wonder at times whether in the process' a lot of the effectiveness of a quick look and a quick report might be lost. 
I am very happy indeed to see the recommendations of the Committee accepted. This was indicated by the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  this afternoon when telling' the Senate what action has been taken in relation to telephone directories. I would like to say also how much I personally appreciated the very splendid assistance of the Committee secretary,  Mr R.  G. Thomson, and  Mr Symington  who took a very definite part in this reference made to my Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
 Again I say how very pleased I am to hear a ministerial announcement in respect of a report - this being the second report to be debated this afternoon - indicating that action is being taken on recommendations made by a Senate committee. I am grateful to  Senator Cotton  for obtaining and giving to us the information that he has given in respect of this report.  Senator Davidson  mentioned the overriding reference to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment; that is, the continuing oversight of the problems of pollution which includes pollution of water and air and noise pollution - whatever type of pollution it may be. It is a very wide reference. Acting within that reference, the Committee decided to exercise its discretion in this matter to inquire into and report upon the alleged pollution of the Mumimbidgee River downstream to the Burrinjuck Dam. 
Problems arise in many places in Australia from the discharge of wastes into inland streams. Canberra, as Australia's largest inland city and one having a very rapid rate of growth, offered an excellent opportunity to study these problems. Further, the source of the alleged pollution was within the Australian Capital Territory, for which the Commonwealth has administrative and legislative responsibility. It was a clear cut case involving Commonwealth responsibility within its own area and allegations which emanated from areas outside the Territory and which needed prompt investigation and report to ascertain whether in fact they were properly based. We had noticed the public expressions of concern and we thought that we would very quickly make an inquiry into this matter. We received excellent cooperation from the Commonwealth and 
State Ministers concerned and their departments and also from the Goodradigbee Shire Council and its officers. I would like to record the appreciation of the Committee of this co-operation and assistance. 
The major concern expressed to the Committee was in respect of health hazards. Although I do not want to repeat what has been said this afternoon, I would like to place on record the situation as I saw it, in virtually the same terms as I reported to the Senate in December 1971. The Committee found that the allegations that Canberra sewage effluent was responsible for harmful pollution of the Murrumbidgee River and the Burrinjuck Dam were not supported by factual evidence. Moreover, they were based - inappropriately, in the Committee's view - on the assumption that drinking water standards should be maintained at all times in the river and the dam. On the evidence presented, the Committee has no doubt that the discharge of Canberra's sewage effluent contributes, though only marginally, to pollution of the Murrumbidgee River downstream from the Australian Capital Territory. The normal use of the waters in question being for pastoral and agricultural purposes and for recreational activities such as boating, fishing and swimming, the Committee considers that the marginal increase in the pollution load is not currently a health danger. In our view, the evidence did not establish any present threat to aquatic life in the river and the dam directly attributable to the discharge of Canberra's sewage effluent. Nevertheless, we believe that as a precautionary measure detergent and 'Solvex' residues ought to be constantly monitored and their effects continually watched. Fears were expressed about leaching from the Coppins sludge lagoons and the danger of pollution of the Murrumbidgee River by a proposed new tip at the northern edge of the current Canberra development. However, the evidence did not substantiate these fears. 
That, in a nutshell, covers the report. As I have said, we have had a very gratifying response by the Government to the conclusions and recommendations in the report. That has been indicated by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I have pleasure now in supporting the motion for the noting of this report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (By  Senator Cotton)  agreed to: 
That the Senate now proceed to consideration of Government Business. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is price cutting in fares by Qantas Airways Ltd and other national airlines on international flights actually increasing the total demand for such flights or is price cutting merely resulting in the pro tern transfer of patronage from one airline to another, with serious diminution of gross income to all participating airlines? If there is no increase in overall air flight demand arising from the lower fares, does it not follow that profitability of all lines will suffer severely with long term serious detriment to international air flights and air travel generally? 
An inspection of the site of the proposed telecommunications tower on Black Mountain will be made today fortnight if we can arrange it for that time. It has not been decided whether evidence will be taken after that. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will consideration be given to extending to wheat growing in marginal areas the provisions determining eligibility of certain primary producers to purchase drought bonds? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister who represents the Minister for Trade and Industry in this place. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the very meritorious export performance of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd over the last 6 months, being 47 per cent higher than for the same period in 1971? Has the Minister noted that overseas sales during the first half of this year realised $34.6m? I ask: Do these figures not give the lie to carping critics of the Australian motor vehicle industry as to the quality of local production and indicate that Australian made vechicles can compete effectively with those of other manufacturing countries in highly competitive markets? 
 I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of South Australia's great dependence on the River Murray for its water supply, can the Minister inform me whether the Australian Water Resources Council and/or the River Murray Commission are pursuing investigations into the provision in South Australia of a major storage of the Chowilla type to ensure to that State the full benefits derivable from the Dartmouth project? If such investigations are not being made currently, will the Minister ask the Minister for National Development to have an inquiry instituted immediately as a matter of urgency for South Australia? 
 I am delighted with the provisions of this legislation which show a very high degree of humanity. Never before has such a comprehensive range of improvements in the pensioner situation been presented in one budget. If one looks at the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  in respect to the Social Service Bill we see that in the category of standard rates of pension alone the provision for single people and widows with children is to be increased by 1.75 a week to S20 a week. This increase will apply to no less than 671,000 people. This figure is made up of approximately 519,000 age pensioners, 112,000 invalid pensioners, 50,000 widow pensioners. Turning to the category in which the married beneficiaries are referred to, again we see that a total of no less than 394,000 people will benefit from these increases in the standard rates alone. 
Looking at the provisions of the Bill, it is very obvious that there will be a wide dispersal of benefits to many people. I think that the Government can be very proud of the coverage of this Bill. When it is considered that the increases proposed in the legislation represent the fourth separate occasion on which the rates of pension have been increaed by the McMahon Government in the last 18 months, it will be appreciated that the increases we are now considering are even more meritorious and pleasing than they may appear at first sight. The best way in which any country can be judged as to whether it has the best interests of all its people at heart is by its attitude to ils elderly citizens and its atti tude to the youngest in the community. On both counts this Government stands preeminently as a very understanding and humane one. Provisions for education have been vastly increased in recent years. So we are giving the younger generation a better opportunity to fend for itself in the life which lies ahead. At the other end of the scale, our elderly and invalid are now receiving sympathetic national recognition of their rightful place in the sun. The Minister for Social Services and the Government should be highly commended for their close attention to the betterment of these people throughout the whole range of social services. 
A very important aspect of the pension increases is their effectiveness. This is demonstrated by the real gains of pensioners in the purchasing power of the pensions they are to receive. Measured by the consumer price index, prices have risen by 8 per cent since the March 1971 quarter whilst the pension for single pensioners including the proposals now before us, will have risen during the same period by 29 per cent and by 25 per cent for married couples. I regard it as a very important observation that the pension increases have kept ahead of increased prices. In other words, the pensions have been improved as effective income to those who receive them. I was pleased to note in the Minister's second reading speech that special attention will continue to be given to detecting and further eliminating areas of need. Much has been dene but much still remains to be done. We have this statement of acceptance of the situation that there are areas of need still to be looked at and that it is a continuing matter to ensure that we provide for those Who are in need the best assistance in order to make their lives happier to the extent that our national income can reasonably afford. 
The Minister has drawn attention to the Government's concern in regard to some couples who between them receive only one pension or a pension plus a wife's allowance. In this context 1 welcome the decision to extend eligibility for pensions at the married rate to pensioners' wives who are ineligible for a pension in their own right by virtue of their age. This new pension which replaces the wife's allowance and which is called the 'wife's pension' is to be paid to the wives of all aged and invalid pensioners who do not qualify for the pension in their own right. Therefore husbands who now receive age or invalid pensions at the standard rate and their non-pensioner wives will receive pensions at the proposed married rate of $17.25 a week. A total of 31,500 wives will benefit from this provision. The excellent move in this direction will provide greater security in this area and eliminate the concern over insufficient money coming into the homes of married couples as has occurred in the past purely because of the age qualification. 
When one sees that expenditure on social services from the national welfare fund for 1972-73, other than that which is included in this legislation, is estimated to reach $l,327m, an increase of $119m over last year, combined with these proposals which will cost $179m in a full year, it can be seen that the Government is certainly taking a very big portion from the total Budget to devote to this highly necessary and desirable area of national need. 1 feel that the increase in the amount devoted to social services has been one of the most pleasing aspects of parliamentary provision in recent times. 1 am very pleased to note that the means test is to be abolished within the next 3 years. There has been a quite definite move towards the liquidation of the means test through the merged means test and the tapered means test as we know. Now we have this assurance of abolition within 3 years. A committee will be set up to inquire fully into how this will be achieved. I regard this as a real step forward. 
This is in complete accord with the principle that benefits should not be denied any person who, through his or her endeavours, has sought to provide a nest egg for the later years of life or to meet difficulties which could arise with the passing of time. To see everybody being eligible, with those who can afford to do without the pension being taxed on ils receipt, does no harm at all in that area. This does close a lot of holes in the system whereby those who were on superannuation or those who through attention to personal provision for a better financial background had been denied the benefits of the pensions system. I regard this as first class legislation. It is enlightened, understanding and humanitarian. I have very much pleasure in supporting its passage through this chamber. 
I address my ques  tion to the Leader of the Government as the representative of the Prime Minister in the Senate. As purposeful decentralisation of industry and population in Australia has thus far lacked verve and go because of insufficient hard core business encouragement by way of worthwhile tax incentives, will the Government give serious consideration to the suggestions made yesterday by  Mr C.  T. Pullen, the acting  president  of the Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia, that tax incentives of a high order be given by the Government to induce greater private investment in the proposed regional growth centres envisaged in the decentralisation planning? 
-I present an interim report from the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment on the reference relating to the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
1 ask for leave to move a motion relating to that report. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)  - Order! Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
There are 2 main reasons for the presentation of this brief interim report on the reference relating to the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites. Firstly, recognising the Senate's expectation that legislative and general purpose standing committees will make regular reports on progress with the particular matters referred to them, the Committee wishes to inform the Senate of the progress made with this inquiry. Secondly, the report gives expression to the Committee's concern over a particular aspect of the general subject matter, and recommends immediate action thereon. I should like to mention that, in considering this reference, the members of the Committee are addressing themselves to a task in which they must be deeply concerned with social circumstances and human values. For this reason, wide ranging evidence and deep consideration will be required for the building up of the complete picture in respect of environmental conditions and the preservation of sacred sites. A great deal of firsthand observation will be essential also, and the Committee has already undertaken 3 field trips to remote parts of the continent. Further field trips will be made as the inquiry progresses, and these will survey the whole range of situations from the remote and primitive to the urban and metropolitan. By direct invitation as well as by public advertisement in the Press throughout Australia, submissions have been sought from interested persons and organisations, and the general response has been highly gratifying. More than 30 witnesses have been heard. A great many more are available and will be examined in due course. All these factors are reasons why the Committee believes that the inquiry will be a fairly protracted one. 
I now turn to the particular matter about which the Committee expresses concern - the preservation of sacred objects and sites. May I explain here that the Committee has extended its consideration of sacred sites to include objects also, as the information put before us indicates that many objects of sacred and cultural significance are integral to Aboriginal traditions. In the course of the Committee's field trips, the members examined sites of significance to Aborigines and, by invitation of the particular Aboriginal groups, collections of objects of sacred and cultural significance. Our own observations, and information put before us, led quickly to the conclusion that 2 sites are vulnerable to interference and damage, and several collections of objects are liable to damage or loss. After taking some evidence on the question, the Committee has concluded that special interim measures .are needed to provide the maximum of protection immediately, and for the next 2 years until, according to our advice, reasonably adequate legislative protection . will exist throughout Australia. Though we have not attempted to canvass the whole of this issue, we have recommended action in relation to objects and sites generally where these may appear ot be vulnerable, as well as in respect of the specific examples that we ourselves have seen. 
In proposing that action be taken on this aspect of the general subject matter, the Committee wishes to emphasise the need to consult the Aborigines concerned in each instance and to encourage them to seek action for the protection of their objects and sites. The Committee recommends that lockable structures be provided for the safe keeping of the vulnerable collections of objects specifically discussed and, wherever possible, for the safe keeping of other collections in similar conditions of jeopardy wherever they are known to exist or come to notice in the future. We propose also that the Office of Aboriginal Affairs assist, through appropriate funding arrangements, in making available the necessary finance. We recommend special action for the immediate protection of known sites that seem most likely to suffer damage. As an essential preliminary to permanent action, we recommend that a national programme for the surveying and recording of sites of significance be expedited. Again, we believe that the Commonwealth has a responsibility for the provision of some of the requisite funds, and the Committee recommends that the Office of Aboriginal Affairs play an active role in these 2 proposals. 
 I thought that in this country we had emerged into the situation of taking a larger view of things than I have heard expressed just now. If we look at this matter against the background of our overseas business interests and requirements in the way of exports, this matter of urgency before the Senate fades right back into something insignificant. What we have just heard is not really worth discussing. At first sight the subject matter of  Senator Murphy's  motion may have had some appeal but it has no appeal when it is considered in depth. It refers to the 'failure of the Government to take action to protect Australian employment and industry in the supply of the Moomba-Sydney pipeline'. 
The core of the matter is embedded in the words 'to protect Australian employment and industry*. This embraces a field much larger than that raised in the motion - the initial supply of certain component parts of a major pipeline of some 787 miles in length; a pipeline which will ensure to Sydney and to New South Wales gas at a price conducive to efficient business expansion with energy costs at the lowest possible level. 
The Building of the pipeline will provide employment to many men in the local labour market, lt will provide ancillary requirements in branch mains for some hundreds of thousands of tons of branch pipeline. Overall, it is a major business proposition generating employment and providing power facilities in a way which is typical of Australian development over recent years. The pipeline has the ability to provide the economic background which has enabled us to go ahead as we have done in recent decades. 
We cannot look at this matter from a petty, parochial point of view, just regarding the provision of the pipeline itself as the whole matter. It goes far beyond that. Our overall trade these days has to be on a world basis. We cannot live to ourselves. We have m Australia industry which is being promoted through a vigorous and expanding export market. In the financial year 1971-72 we sent to Japan no less than $l,362m worth of various primary products, iron ore and other minerals and so on. The total export income of Australia in that year was $4,902m. In other words, 27.8 per cent of total exports from Australia were directed to Japan. We imported from Japan goods to the value of $659m out of the Import total to Australia from all sources  of  $4,008m. That is, 15.7 per cent of our imports came from Japan and 27.8 per cent of our exports went to Japan. 
Tonight we have this great kerfuffle about the cost of certain, as I call them, component parts in a major Australian project costing about $55m. It is peanuts against the overall trade between the 2 countries. Also, the facts are that we in Australia under our present Government - and thank Heaven we have had this attitude for over 20 years now - have a reluctance to intrude into normal commer cial business decisions. The Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney, of its own volition, has worked out what is best for it and, via it, for the New South Wales economy. It has decided that letting the contract to Japan is the best means of providing quickly a supply of gas to Sydney at a price that will enable cheap production. At the same time, it is giving my State, South Australia, an opportunity of selling gas of which it has huge quantities in the Moomba-Gidgealpa area taking away from the very heavily populated areas of the country a major pipeline and in the process enabling, I trust, decentralisation of industry in due time on the route from those fields. Altogether it is a good, sound business arrangement. I have not heard one word from the Premier of South Australia against the decision by AGL to obtain the pipes from the source from which they are to be obtained. 
As a matter of fact, in that case about 488 miles of 22 inch diameter piping were required; 155 miles of it was supplied by Stewart and Lloyd (Australia) Pty Ltd, 75 miles by Humes Ltd, the Adelaide organisation, and 258 miles from Japan. So the pipe was supplied on a 50-50 basis from the 2 sources. That pipeline is now functioning and giving South Australia an ability to maintain its power costs very competitively and comparatively at lower cost than in most other parts of Australia. I point out that it was a Labor government that did this. 
Not a bit. I am not saying that. I am saying that it was done because of the expeditiousness with which the pipes could be obtained to get this pipeline in operation in loco. As the honourable senator knows very well, I am all in favour of Australian industry being promoted to the utmost. But in the case of this transaction I can see nothing greatly wrong, having again as a basic principle an appreciation of industry in Australia so far as it is enabled through our various laws and protective measures to do certain things in its own way. This is being done in this case. My point is - I emphasise this - that we have naturally to look at the most efficient and cheapest source of supply along with all the other factors that go with that. Behind this whole situation we have to bear in mind that unless we are prepared to trade reasonably with our own customers how can we expect consideration from them in the way that we would desire of them if we do not reciprocate whenever we possibly can? lt has to be done. 
As I have said, in all our rural products they are very big customers. Also, we promote secondary industry in Australia through the growth of our economy arising from trade with Japan. I have no hesitation in saying that. 
Undoubtedly; at all times. I understand that the quotations for this project were for a certain diameter of pipe. I am not conversant with the actual situation in that regard, but I am aware of this: All the branch lines of piping will be supplied from local sources. I have been given to understand this. It is the difficultly of obtaining supplies for the major pipeline as quickly as it can be supplied from Japan that has caused this decision to be made at the present time. 
Yes, but the 34-inch pipe has been the problem. There is a time factor involved in this. As for the claim that jobs will be endangered, it is rather strange to hear advocacy for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd from honourable senators opposite. Usually such advocacy emanates from this side of the Senate. I have every respect for BHP. It is one of the greatest organisations in the world and it is of immense value to Australia. But it will not be adversely affected in its employment situation because it will not be putting off anybody through the lack of this contract. It is a fact that if these pipes were to be manufactured in Australia 350 jobs could be provided. But they are not jobs that are in existence. They would be promoted were the contract to come to Australia. But there are other avenues of employment, far greater numerically, which will arise from this contract going ahead expeditiously than the jobs in prospect had we been successful in the tender for this job. 
 I am discussing now the' provision of steel pipes and nothing else. I feel that it is very undesirable for criticism to be directed against our own industrial complexes over decisions that they make. In my opinion, it is far better to have enterprise which is conducted by the individuals concerned than to have undue governmental intrusion in Lo industry and commerce. Greater efficiency is always to be found when private enterprise is up the hill. This is in no way derogatory to governmental activity, lt is just one of those facts of life that we can achieve more in a competitive enterprise situation than we can in a much  larger complex arising from governmental action in areas that are best left to those who are very closely in touch with the complete situation, who know the requirements and who act accordingly. In the process they develop our economy and provide through their activities employment and tax revenue and promote further industry. Here we have the basis of a healthy economy without which I cannot see how we would advance as a nation in the way that we have in recent times and as we will in the future, I am quite certain, if we are prepared not to intrude unduly into the general running of industry in Australia. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In my opinion, the provisions of the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Bill 1972 provide the greatest and most gratifying breakthrough for the well-being of soldier settlers, particularly those on Kangaroo Island, that I have experienced in the Senate. As has been mentioned by  Senator Wilkinson,  the Bill provides for the raising of loan moneys amounting to S6.5m for war service land settlers in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. It is proposed that $4,156,000 will be directed to South Australia, $1.6m to Western Australia and $744,000 to Tasmania. The significant difference between the amount made available for South Australia this year and the amount made available for South Australia last year - an increase of $2. 5m - is the need to meet what has been described by  Senator Wilkinson  as the uniquely difficult situations, both physical and biological, experienced on Kangaroo Island, which have set back the settlers in a very serious way. Those problems are quite different from the problems in any other area of Australia. There is clover disease which, I believe, is caused by high oestrogen content in pastures, with a predominance of Yarloop clover. This leads to very low survival rates in lambs and up to a 10 per cent loss in wether population. Its harmful effects require greater investigation. Continuing research is required. 
I commend the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  for having visited Kangaroo Island to see for himself the situation that exists. I commend the Honourable  Dr Jim  Forbes, member for Barker, in the House of Representatives, who, for many years, has persistently advocated the recognition of the difficult situation prevailing on the Island. I also commend my former colleague in the South Australian House of Assembly, the Honourable David Brookman, M.P., for his continuing interest in this major matter. Today we have what I have described as a major breakthrough in the betterment of conditions which soldier settlers and others on the Island will experience. Naturally the money will be devoted to soldier settlers but experience will come from research which is being carried out and this will be of benefit to all producers on the Island. 
I shall summarise the benefits which are provided for in this Bill. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  when he introduced this Bill, stated:   . . the Kangaroo Island improvement programme will comprise initially scientific investigation 
I have referred to the need for this in relation to the background of experience in the quite unusual prevailing conditions on Kangaroo Island, both physically and biologically -  partial rental remission- 
That is, to meet immediate difficulties of liquidity for many of the settlers -  credit for fodder conservation facilities; recasting of settler' accounts in appropriate cases; and provision lo pay out stock mortgages for creditworthy settlers. 
The provision of money under the war service land settlement scheme is at an m'.erst rate of 31 per cent. As  Senator Wilkinson  has indicated, this money basically is to be advanced under loan conditions but the interest rate, long term facilities and background are such that it will be of assistance to producers there. 
I am delighted, as I say, to see what is being provided for settlers on Kangaroo Island. Also I am delighted that money is is to be devoted to the Upper Murray region at Loxton. I notice that the work on block drainage for improving horticultural holdings and on irrigation headworks, including channels and pipelines, which supply water to settlers on holdings at Loxton and drainage of those areas is to be improved. While the detail of this provision is not as great as has been given for Kangaroo Island, it is a further improvement for the very deserving settle -s in irrigated areas in South Australia. At some future time I would like more information as to what is being done in relation to the revaluation of holdings in certain of the irrigated areas of the Murray. 
No, I realise that, but this is quite an urgent matter which I feel should be looked at by the Government. Again I commend the Government for providing funds as set out in this measure. They will be of immense advantage to those to whom they are directed These funds are made available in accordance with the spirit of assisting those who have shown by their endeavours that they are worthy of being given consideration. I indeed have great pleasure in supporting the passage of this legislation. The suggestion made by the Opposition as an addendum to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, that is that an inquiry be held by a select committee, has virtue. I have always said that an independent inquiry would be of great assistance in a situation such as this. I am in accord with the spirit of that suggestion. In the circumstances now prevailing I feel that 1 will not support it at this stage. But I still say that an independent inquiry into certain facets and the background of soldier settlement both for the present and for the future - I notice that the Opposition's amendment relates to guidelines for future settlement - in certain situations and not particularly in relation to Kangaroo Island could well be recommended to the Government. 1 support the Bill very warmly. 
We have before us 3 very important Bills. They are much more important than may appear at first sight. I refer to the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, the Gift Duty Bill and the Gift Duty Assessment Bill. These are part of the provisions of the Budget which was introduced on 15th August. I have said that they are mightily important. At first sight this may not appear so when one compares the revenue from these measures against the entire Budget of $l0,000m. But the philosophy behind the incidence of estate duty and gift duty is the important thing for consideration tonight. The reduction of the charges on the estate of a deceased person and, to a lesser extent, the reduction of the incidence of gift duty is a step in the right direction. These are matters which have deep importance for the retention of society as we know it in Australia and of which we consider the family to be the most important unit. 1 shall reiterate the provisions of these Bills. They can be simply stated and readily understood. Let us look at the present situation before these Bills become law. An estate is exempt from estate duty if its value is $20,000 or less and it passes to the spouse, children or grandchildren of the deceased. If the estate goes to a nonrelative the amount of the examption is halved; that is an estate to the value of $10,000 is exempt. At present a primary producer estate of $24,000 is exempt if it passes to close relatives. The estate of a primary producer passing to non-relatives is exempt up to $12,000. Under the Estate Duty Assessment Bill it is proposed to double the exemptions in each case. An estate to the value of $40,000 going to close relatives will be exempt from all estate duty and an estate of $20,000 passing to non-relatives will be exempt. If it is a primary producer estate there is a greater benefit. 
In each case above the base allowance the scale of exemptions will continue to diminish at the existing rate of $2 for every $8 by which the value of an estate exceeds the initial exemption level. This means that exemptions will cut out for estates generally at $200,000 where the estate passes lo relatives. When the estate passes to non-relatives the exemption will cut out at $100,000. For primary producer estates the cut-out points will be $240,000 when passing to members of the family and $120,000 when passing to nonmembers of the family. These are major improvements in relation to death duties which are applied in the Federal sphere. The applications of these proposals will result in about half of all estates which now attract estate duty becoming wholly exempt. This is a very important aspect and it indicates the widespread benefits which will accrue from these measures. 
 I believe that that is a most important point. It is also an encouragement to a large number of the population. It will encourage people to build up a nest egg for members of the family which can be passed on in due time to better the conditions under which they may be living. We all endeavour as far as we can to ensure that our children and relatives live under better conditions than we have enjoyed. These new exemptions will apply to the estates of persons who have died since 15th August, which was the date of the introduction of the Budget. I pay tribute to the Government for having taken these steps in the right direction and reducing the change on estates and gifts. 
In relation to gift duty, there has been no increase in the exemption levels since 1947. I welcome the increases which raise the exemption from $4,000 to $10,000 before tax is attracted. I commend the Government for these moves. These are steps in a direction which I trust will ultimately lead to the situation which is sought in the amendment which was proposed by  Senator Byrne.  In relation to the motion that the Bill be read a second time he moved: At  end of motion add -  bin the Senate expresses the view that the Government should consider as soon as possible the complete elimination of Federal estate duty'. 
I completely concur with that intention. I shall be supporting this amendment. If there is one form of taxation for which I have no time it is a tax imposed after other taxes have been paid on money which has been earned. We have paid our tax and we have a residual, small amount after living costs are paid to build up into a background of security. Money in an estate is built up from assets out of net income after taxation and costs incidental to living have been incurred. In my opinion to tax that remaining little amount is completely anathema to the spirit of promoting thrift, to a sense of responsibility to one's family, to encouraging the family unit and to the continuation of -individually owned assets in the community. I find also, thank heaven, that we still have businesses in Australia, whether they be of a rural or manufacturing nature, which are not Colusseses. There are many small units with liquidity and I want to refer to the great need to encourage the smaller production unit, be it a farming unit, manufacturing unit or any other type of unit. I do not like the idea that business or farming has to be in the hands of big complexes and big organisations. This is not conducive to a society in which there is the responsible attitude by the ordinary people. There has to be encouragement for the smaller mau to be able to continue in his own way. Efficiency is not the prerogative of huge turnovers. Efficiency can be related to capital investment and other fields which can be equally as efficient as the biggest of the organisations. This sort of legislation before us tonight does assist the small unit to achieve viability and to retain liquidity in the long term without which there is no hope in the future for the small unit of production in Australia. I warmly support these 3 Bills, and I equally as warmly support and commend  Senator Byrne  of the DLP who introduced the amendment which seeks to lead to the ultimate abolition of estate duties at the Commonwealth level. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Prime Minister. Bearing in mind that country meatworks provide a logical decentralisation of industry, does the Commonwealth provide financial assistance for the extension and upgrading of abattoirs to meet the standards requirements of export meat markets such as the active American market? If not, will the Minister endeavour to have such financial assistance measures incorporated in future decentralisation of industry planning? 
I am inclined to think that this question might be better directed initially to the 
Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I think we are all aware of health and handling requirements that have been imposed on certain abattoirs to make them eligible to export to the American market. I have become aware of certain areas in which improvements have been carried out and of abbattoirs which were put under an embargo but have had that embargo lifted as a result of improvements made to their establishments. The suggestion now being made is that, in this area of decentralisation, governments - and that means the taxpayers of course - should be called upon to make facilities available for some organisations, particularly in private enterprise, to bring their abattoirs to a certain standard. This would have to be looked at fairly critically, particularly since that while we all recognise that it is desirable to secure overseas markets for primary products, the basis from which a start should be made in a free enterprise economy is that the establishments themselves have an obligation to look to their own capital resources and to do their own development in order to attract trade. I will refer the question. I should think that after it is referred to the Prime Minister's Department, it will be forwarded to the Department of Primary Industry. Still, I will refer it in the first place. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether it is a fact that at a meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council held in Melbourne on Monday all State governments agreed to introduce quotas to control egg production. Are details of the quota proposals available? When is it anticipated that effect may be given to these proposals? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the fact that the major source of power generation in South Australia is the brown coal deposits at Leigh Creek and in view of the fact that these deposits have a limited availability, is South Australia not the logical region in which to establish the first nuclear power station in Australia? 
Further, is it not equally as logical to site the envisaged uranium enrichment plant in South Australia, based on such a nuclear power provision? Is it not a fact that the South Australian power grid radiates out from Port Augusta - a location which gives ample access to the necessary huge volume of water required for nuclear power generation? Will these factors be taken into account when the site for a nuclear power generation and uranium enrichment plant is considered by the Government? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement made by the South Australian Minister for Works,  Mr Corcoran,  at the recent opening of the Tumut 3 power station, that a storage such as that proposed at the Chowilla site in South Australia is an essential requirement for ensuring full benefit to South Australia of the Dartmouth project? As this matter was the subject of a question I directed to the Minister some weeks ago, I ask him now whether he has received further information about it? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1972-73, together with minutes of those proceedings. I also table the Hansard report of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report and minutes of proceedings be printed. 
Order! In conformity with the sessional order relating to the adjournment of the Senate, I formally put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Is it a fact that with the extension of clean air Acts in all States and with the tightening of regulations in respect of air pollution emanating from industrial complexes the cost of pollution control equipment will represent an increasingly greater part of total investment for new plant in Australia, with consequent product price increases to the public? As more effective control of air pollution is now a most urgent matter, will he ask the Minister to give further and serious consideration to the recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution which relate to extensions of taxation investment allowances and accelerated depreciation allowances on pollution control equipment. Including chimney stacks? . 
I present the report from the Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to the proposed construction of a Post Office tower on Black Mountain in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. It deals with a question rightly asked by  Senator Sim  earlier this week as to why French champagne is being served on international flights by our flag carrier, Qantas Airways Ltd, to the exclusion of the Australian vintages of this wine. Will the Minister dismiss with the disdain it deserves the unfair, unfounded, outmoded and snobbishly biased comment of the Qantas wine consultant,  Mr Len  Evans, which was reported yesterday in the 'Australian' in these terms: 
There is absolutely no comparison between champagne and what Australia passes as it. 
Is the Minister aware that, in international competition in places such as  Montpellier  and  Lubjhana,  Australia's wines have gained many coveted awards ahead of the various wines of the Old World? In view of the expressed desire of the Minister to have Qantas the acme of perfection in all aspects of air travel, will he ensure that Australian wines, including our champagne, will always be available on Qantas flights even though the French do not like our calling our champagne by that name, and even though some Australians like to kowtow to the French attitude in this matter? 
I would like briefly to indicate my attitude on the matter before the Senate. It is well known that I am opposed to the wine excise and have always been opposed to it. However, this measure is part of the Budget and I support the Government's Budget. Therefore I will not be drawn by the naivety of the suggestion that at this point I should support the request proposed by  Senator Murphy.  I can assure the Senate that I will continue my advocacy for the removal of the excise, but this is not the occasion for such action on my part as a Government supporter. I feel that the Government has brought down a budget which is really good for the nation and I will support the Government on this matter. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales - Leader of the Opposition (5.31) -  Senator Laucke  is in favour of the abolition of the excise but he will do nothing about it. The fact is that the excise is imposed as part of a budgetary scheme and it can be removed from the Budget. It can be removed at any time. What  Senator Laucke  has said is an excuse for doing nothing. The Budget Papers embrace the whole of public activities and the administration of the entire community. If that were the attitude that one took on every occasion one would not support anything that was not brought in by the Government because in some way every measure is related to the Budget. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  a pretty shrewd gentleman, says: 'Yes, this is not a bad idea but it is part of the Budget of the Government and the Appropriation Bills have been introduced. If you do this it will run counter to what is in them'. That is not the position at all. First of all, the Appropriation Bills that have been introduced have not been passed. We still have to deal with them in Committee this evening. It would not matter if they had been passed because they deal not with revenue but with expenditure. They deal with how money will be expended. 
The suggestion that we could not expend any money if this $6. 9m were not raised is a lot of nonsense. We know what the Budget is; it is a broad programme for how money will be raised and how it will be spent. We know that in some areas there might be losses through the operations of a public utility or that there might be a rise in income taxes or a drop of $1 00m or so for some reason or other. That has nothing to do with the real problem of whether this excise should be removed. Now is the chance to do it and with one stroke the Senate can say that it will not accept this measure, send the appropriate request to the other place and so set in operation the legislative process to remove this excise entirely from the statute book. I am not speaking now in a private capacity. I moved this motion not simply as a private senator but in my official capacity on behalf of the Parliamentary Australian Labor Party. The attitude which has been taken by the Party after solemn consideration is that it should move in the Senate to delete the excise entirely from the statute book in an endeavour to carry out what I had previously pledged that we would do. 
On 3rd November 1970 and, prior to that on 19th October, I pledged that an endeavour would be made in this Senate to prevent that excise being imposed at all. A motion was moved on that occasion by  Senator Drury  on the behalf of the Australian Labor Party that item 16 of the measure which had then been introduced be deleted. Again honourable senators from the Government benches said: 'We do not approve of it but we will vote for it'.  Senator Laucke,  along with the others, voted for it. This is what has been happening in this Parliament. Honourable senators opposite have been out in the country saying to the wine industry that they do not approve of the excise and will do everything they can to remove it, but when they have the opportunity to vote for its removal they will no do so. 
Do you think that the reduction in the excise happened of its own volition or do you think it may have been due to the influence and work, in a practical way, of those who are opposed to it? You are playing politics; that is all you are doing. 
We of the Australian Labor Parly have been ardent advocates for the removal of this excise. The honourable member for Riverina,  Mr Grassby,  and other Labor men who sit in the other place, together with members of the Australian Labor Party in this Senate who represent South Australia, have pressed for this action. They are prepared not only to argue for it throughout Australia; they are prepared also to vote for it in this Parliament. I ask honourable senators who want to see the end of this tax to vote for this amendment. If it is not carried now I pledge that the Australian Labor Party, in the new government, will remove this tax from the statute book. 
Question put: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Morpheas amendment). 
I ask the Minister  representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts whether his attention has been drawn to statements by the DirectorGeneral of the Port of London Authority,  Mr John  Lunch, referring to the factual and quite magnificent results of that Authority in cleaning up the pollution of the River Thames. He said: 'In 15 years we have turned the Thames from a stinking river that only eels could live in to a clean river.' is the Minister aware that the Port of London Authority has set up a water pollution consultancy division and is desirous of establishing a branch of it in Australia? In view of the major pollution problems in many of our rivers and the recommendation of the Senate select committees on both air and water pollution that overseas expertise be availed of in meeting our problems of pollution, will consideration be given to encouraging the formation in Australia of a branch of the consultancy division J have referred to so that water pollution problems can be directed to it on a national basis? 
Before the Senate is the major matter of special assistance grants to the States. Surely it is a matter which must go beyond petty State politics. I cannot let the opportunity go by without expressing my appreciation and, indeed, gratification that an amount of $21m is to be provided to South Australia in accordance with the recommendations of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The purpose of this Bill - I think we should keep close to what the Bill really provides for - is to authorise the payment in 1972-73 of special grants of $1Om to Queensland, $21m to South Australia and $7. 6m to Tasmania. The method used by the Commission to determine the extent of such grants is to calculate the amount of money necessary to bring the budgetary position of a claimant State up to that of the 2 most populous States, which are taken as being the standard, after allowing for differences between the financial practices of the States concerned and their efforts to raise re.venue and to control expenditure. 
I have always regarded the special assistance grants provisions of our financial arrangements as being one of the most desirable and necessary nationally oriented aspects of governmental finance within the federal concept. Here we have, particularly in respect of the smaller States, the real benefits of our federal system. The important aspect of this legislation is that it ensures to every State equality of opportunity to provide essential services on a common standard, despite the immediate disabilities the less populous States have in generating a capacity for revenue raising within their local taxing fields as compared to the larger States. Looking at the position purely on a population basis, my own State of South Australia has approximately 10 per cent of the population, but it has much more than 10 per cent of the total area of Australia. That immediately brings into the picture the costs involved in providing such essential services as water reticulation. By the way, we have a lack of rain over a large area of our State. 
That is correct. Only 10 per cent of South Australia's surface area enjoys more than 10 inches of rain a year. There is a fringe area which is well watered and beyond which water must be taken, be it to Whyalla, Port Augusta, Port Pirie, Woomera, right across to the Eyre Peninsula or towards the southeast. We have huge problems in South Australia in respect of water reticulation. As well as the very great cost involved in providing water reticulation in South Australia, there is the high cost of providing good roads over many miles of country. 
If we in South Australia are to have equality of opportunity throughout the country insofar as the provision of necessary services is concerned, be they water reticulation or the provision of roads, education or hospitals, which are all requirements of society, we need this sort of assistance. Without it we just could not make ends meet. Without it we would not be able to match the better conditions which apply in other parts of our great nation. Here we have a most admirable equalising system, as it were. I recall very vividly when in about 1963 or 1964 South Australia emerged from what was regarded as a mendicancy situation; it got away from requiring assistance from the Grants Commission. But, with the pressures of modern requirements, it again looks to the Grants Commission for support. I make no apology at all for that. 1 can see in this legislation a provision which will ensure to the whole of the nation equality of standards as nearly as can be arranged bearing in mind the history of taxing determinations on the part of a given State and its expenditures in order to qualify for the receipt of a certain amount of money. I repeat that it is most gratifying for me to see this amount of money being devoted to my State under this legislation. I applaud the provisions of this Bill, which give real strength and meaning to federation in Australia. I support the measure. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he will inform the Senate what action the Government proposes to take in respect of compensation for rural industry exports disadvantaged by the current exchange situation. Is he aware of the monetary disability now being experienced in regard to rural exports, particularly those which operate on small margins? I instance the apple and pear and canned fruits industries. 
 I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Has the Government any plans for the rationalisation of the commercial television industry? Is it proposed to withdraw any commercial television station licences? 

 Senator DOUGLAS MCCLELLANDSenator Laucke has raised the future of the rationalisation of the commercial television industry and asked whether it is intended by the Government to withdraw any of the commercial television licences. The last matter contained in his question was the subject of a discussion with me in Sydney by all of the capital city licensees on, I think from recollection, Monday, 5th February. The suggestion was put to me, as the representative of the Government, by all capital city commercial licensees, with the exception perhaps of one, that in view of the spread of revenue advertising, the costs of production, and the high cost of the purchase of programmes from abroad, the amount of advertisement revenue available to them would seriously inhibit them in increasing the Australian content of their programmes and also would jeopardise them from an economic point of view, especially with the advent of colour television in March 1975. 
As I say, the matter was put to me by all commercial licensees with the exception of perhaps one. I think it fair to say that that one adopted the attitude then, although it has been changed since, that he would agree with the proposition that had been put forward provided that his was one of the stations that was to be retained. A number of other suggestions have been put to me and I am searching on behalf of the Government for the real answer as to how to make this industry an economically viable one. Certainly, some of the stations are making what one might refer to as 'reasonable profits'. Others are receiving a very small return on the investment that has been involved. I would suggest to the honourable senator, coming as he does from Adelaide in South Australia, that he have a look at some of the returns of the commercial stations in Adelaide. I think he will find that one or two of those stations could well be in difficulties. The Government is certainly giving consideration to the proposition, as it is giving to all other matters that have been raised with it, not only by the licensees but also by the unions. It is receiving the advice of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board about a general review of the Act. That advice should be on my table by the time I leave the Senate chamber after question time. We are looking at all facets of the problem because there are serious economic problems ahead regarding the television industry. 
I direct a question to, the Minister for Primary Industry. What is the attitude of the Government in respect of the manufacture and distribution of synthetic, meats in Australia? Will the Government ensure that these artificial products are clearly' described as such in labelling and advertising' and not allowed to be presented as genuine meat?  1  Senator WRIEDT-  I understand that there is one manufacturer of synthetic meats in Australia. There is also a small import trade of about 150 tons from the United States of America. Quite rightly, the previous government was keeping a close eye on this situation. I understand that agreements have been reached with health authorities in respect of labelling so that distinctions can be made properly in accordance with the requirements of the National Health and Medical Research Council recommendations. I think that a more significant point and one which will be of major concern to us in the future is the projections for the increase in the usage of synthetic meats both in the United States of America and the United Kingdom. JJ those projections prove to be correct, this must have a significant impact on our exports of meats to those countries. I think that the action taken by the previous administration was wise and. in the main, the present government will maintain a similar surveillance of the position. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
In view of the disquiet in the minds of many Australians arising from uncertainty as to Government attitudes in relation to the legalisation of the distribution and sale of marihuana or any other narcotic drug that could lead to the pollution of the moral environment of our youth, will the Minister clearly state the Government's intentions in this matter? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows upon the question asked earlier by  Senator Keeffe  concerning the price of meat on the. home market. Is it -not a fact that meat producers in Australia, with the exception .of . those who are producing beef, have experienced very low prices for their products over a long period? Are they not now entitled to enjoy the benefits. of markets more. favourable to them? Will this be kept in mind when the Minister is considering  Senator Keeffe's  question? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for the Media, follows upon the question asked a moment ago by  Senator Lawrie  in respect of the Minister's request to television stations to delay the purchase of certain programs. Has the request relevance to increased Australian content of television programs? Is there an area of interest in this matter which attaches to that request in the first instance? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry, in replying to an earlier question from  Senator O'Byrne  the Minister reiterated that there is an embargo on the export of merino rams. Then how and why did the Minister approve of the sale of merino rams to the People's Republic of China at the time that he did? Would he have approved a sale to a non-Communist country or were there political bias and motivation in the sale to China? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. It concerns the provisions of the Loan (War Service Land Settlement) Act 1972, particularly as they affect soldier settlers on Kangaroo Island. Can the Minister inform me of the stages thus far reached in the implementation of the various proposals covered by the legislation? Can he advise me of what has been, or is being, done concerning partial rental remissions for those settlers whose circumstances are adversely affected by the physical and biological problems of the Kangaroo Island farmer? 
An air of absolute anti-climax now prevails over this debate. The objective which  Senator Greenwood  sought to achieve has been attained and it is quite surprising to me that this debate has continued so long when both  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Cavanagh  have so clearly indicated that the Government accepts the proposal set out in the motion. If this is to be the way in which the Government intends to spend its time during this session then I can see a build-up of business which in the end will lead again to a situation similar to that which gave rise to such deep criticism of previous governments. A great deal of extraneous material has been introduced into this debate, yet the issue is simple and precise.  Senator Greenwood  has moved for the disapproval by this Senate of certain determinations made under the Public Service Arbitration Act 1920-1972 by which 4 weeks annual leave was to be granted only to members of recognised unions and organisations and not to all unionists. When giving notice of the motion  Senator Greenwood  made it very clear that the objection of the Opposition was in respect to the limitation. The issue whether there should be 3 or 4 weeks annual leave is quite distinct from the one now before the House; the effects on the economy and so on are not being debated. It is purely a question of discrimination between certain workers, be they unionists or nonunionists, that has led to the motion which we have been discussing for so long. 
Historically speaking, in his policy speech the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that all Commonwealth employees would receive 4 weeks annual leave. No strings were attached to the promise at that stage. It was only after the election, on 6th December, that  Mr Clyde  Cameron, who is now the Minister for Labour, confirmed that 4 weeks annual leave would be granted to public servants but added that it would apply only to those public servants who were members of given organisations or unions. Then on 20th December  Mr Whitlam  announced that the limitation would apply. This is, in my opinion, a preposterous situation. It is compulsory unionism by stealth and economic blackmail. 
I was quite amazed to hear  Senator Cavanagh,  who must have had his tongue well in cheek, in one instance say T do not believe in compulsory unionism', and then in the next say 'But I do not believe that a person who is not a member of a union should enjoy the benefits in certain awards'.  Senator Cavanagh  on the one hand refers to voluntary unionism, but on the other hand he makes it confoundedly difficult for an individual to do other than follow his dictates if that individual is to be eligible for benefits. In my opinion, the use of public relations and discussions with employees in given industries is the avenue for increasing union membership - not some stringent personal economic imposition which in itself is  a  compulsion in that direction. I completely support the motion moved by  Senator Greenwood,  and I am pleased that the Government has seen the error of its ways in this matter. 
Well, the Government has agreed to accept the proposal that 4 weeks leave be given across the board. 
1 suggest that it was the common sense of the Opposition and of those honourable senators sitting on this side of the chamber who oppose the Government. I support the motion. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to an appeal made in the 'Australian Financial Review' by  Mr Paul  Atroshenko,  President  of the Artists Guild of Australia, for the Government to sponsor a conference in Canberra of representatives of all art societies, art schools and interested groups to ascertain from them their practical needs and desires in respect to the new Council for the Arts? Further, will the Minister explain why the eminent artists  Sir William  Dargie, who has been  Chairman  of the Arts Advisory Board since 1969, and  Sir Russell  Drysdale, who has been a member of the Board since 1962, both of whom have rendered the arts and the nation outstanding services in the positions to which I have referred, were summarily dismissed? Is it a fact that in the new Council these artists, who understand the practical problems of their art, have been replaced by administrators whose knowledge of the arts is largely theoretical? 
 I ask a question of the Minister for Works as the representative of the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Government has decided that up to 40 per cent of all future exports of Australian minerals shall be carried in Australian ships? Was a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis done on the question? If so, can the report be released? Further, does the Minister really believe that we can expect to pick the eyes out of profitable shipping runs without there being some adverse effect on other shipping rates, or even retaliation by overseas shippers and overseas maritime unions? 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry advise the Senate what action, if any, is being taken currently, or what action is being prepared, to give effect to the statement included in the GovernorGeneral's Speech to Parliament that the Government would initiate fishery resources surveys and exploratory fishing operations and that it would assist in the provision of equipment and facilities to develop fisheries based on those resources? Are there any specific plans to promote the fishing industry in South Australian waters? 
I direct a qeustion to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I seek further elucidation of the kangaroo products export ban decision. I ask the Minister: Were the States' fauna authorities consulted before the ban was imposed? On what evidence did the Minister base his decision to impose the ban when the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation indicated that a total ban was not necessary as not all species were in danger of extinction? 
Has the Minister for the Media given consideration to criticisms levelled by the Australian Film Council at the Australian Film Development Corporation's allocation of $200,000 to assist in the production of the feature film  'Mr Burke  and  Mr Wills'?  Are the criticisms based on the ground that the film would not have significant Australian content? Is the purpose and objective of the Australian Film Development Corporation, that is, the fostering and promotion of local productions and giving Australians experience in making feature films, being achieved in this instance? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Has the Government as yet estimated the cost to the economy of a 35-hour week for all workers, and the effect of this on the cost of living? If no estimate has been made, will the Government have one prepared and submit it to the Senate? 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Government determined the rate of interest which in future will be charged to farmers for moneys advanced under the rural reconstruction scheme? If so, what is the rate to be? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Reference was made in  the Attorney-General's statement to the fact that some of the documents which were tabled this afternoon bear the classification stamp 'Secret* or 'Confidential'. The AttorneyGeneral said that they are no longer so, that they all had been declassified and that no breach of security was involved in tabling them now. I now ask the Attorney-General: By whose direction and authority were these documents declassified? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. As he has stated clearly that at no time did the Director-General or the Regional Director of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation deny to him information he had sought from that organisation, will he now justify his action and fully explain the reasons that led him to raid ASIO offices? Were any political or other matters extraneous to alleged terrorist activity part of the motivation of the raids? 
I ask a question of the acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has an evaluation been made of the effects of the Attorney-General's raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation on the work and morale of ASIO? Has a check been made on the number of men and women who have terminated association with 
ASIO because of personal fears about safety consequent upon the opening of extremely confidential personal files? 
I address to the Minister for Works a question which concerns his portfolio or his representation of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. As reports from many centres along the River Murray in South Australia reflect deep apprehension as to the control of salinity in the River Murray and the need to prevent other types of pollution from existing and projected housing in industrial developments which may contaminate the river, will the Government give urgent consideration to the implementation of the recommendations of consultants to the River Murray Commission on salinity control in the Murray? 
I wish to say a few words in relation to these Bills and formally to second the amendment which was moved earlier by  Senator Cotton  and not seconded hitherto. 1 am concerned about the proliferation of Government departments, with the consequent employment of large numbers of personnel, whose functions have not first been the subject of scrutiny by the Parliament. Both of the Bills which are before us seek to validate the appropriation of moneys for capital works and services for new and reconstituted departments resulting from the Administrative Arrangements Order of 20th December 1972. We have been asked to support arrangements entered into without prior reference to the Parliament. 1 concur strongly with the concern expressed by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Webster.  I am concerned, as must be many other people in Australia, at the present Gov- ernment's policy of distributing moneys widely and quickly without proper consideration being given to the projects on which great amounts of public moneys are being expended. I instance the proposed new arts council. I noted a comment in this morning's issue of the 'Australian' by  Mr Clifton  Pugh, an artist who is a member of the Australian Council for the Arts, in which he said: 
We have to work hard to stop a vast bureaucratic monolith being set up. 
He was referring to the Council. He went on to say:  lt has been stated by one member of the Council that the new authority will have a permanent staff of 200. 
Up till now the Council for the Arts has been a body which has been constituted of 5 boards comprising 25 members. The proposal is to have a council of 26 members and 69 members of various boards. To this point of time 95 persons will form the direct administrative section, as it were, of the new council. lt should be borne in mind that none of the costs associated with it is set out in these Appropriation Bills. The important thing to do is to anticipate the increased expenditures which will arise from these initial actions. If the council members of the various boards were to hold a meeting at a central point in Australia - say Canberra - and if each of those 95 persons were to require an outlay on his behalf of, say, $200 return on air fares it would cost the taxpayers $19,000. If 6 meetings were held in one year and they were attended by all of the council members and members of the boards the cost for air lares alone would be $114,000. That is about a quarter of the amount previously provided in the general area of the Council for the Arts. It is because of my concern at the implications of the initial expenditure entered into by the Government that I have risen. On the surface it does not appear to be very much. 
I notice that Appropriation Bill (No. 3) provides for new expenditure of about  $5. 8m  and that Appropriation Bill (No. 4) provides for new expenditure of about $10m, allowing for the recoupment of moneys which otherwise would have been spent in other areas. The amendment very rightly emphasises that the departments about which I am complaining were created prior to any consultation with the Parliament and without any steps being taken to ensure that sufficient moneys would be made available to them by the Parliament. I think it is a salutary step to move as  Senator Cotton  has moved in his amendment for the Senate to express the opinion that should such a procedure be adopted in the future the Senate ought to reject such Appropriation Bills. That I support very strongly. The established procedure of submitting such measures of expenditure to the proper scrutiny of appropriate Senate Estimates committees has been abandoned on this occasion. In this respect there is further cause for real concern. The Senate has established a series of estimates committees which, in my opinion, have had a very salutary effect on governmental outlays. There is greater departmental respect now for moneys being spent in certain directions because of the knowledge that every item of expenditure can be looked at extraordinarily closely by these committees. If the situation were to persist whereby moneys were authorised for expenditure in this sort of Bill without any background of parliamentary oversight we would be in a very retrogressive stage insofar as the monetary control of the country is concerned. I support the amendment very strongly. I will also support the passage of these Appropriation Bills. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: In what areas of church dogma in relation to divorce has his offensive reference ecclesiastical garbage' direct relevance? Will he more clearly and more directly specify those areas than he did in his reply to the question asked by  Senator Davidson? 
 Let us return to a rational calm and collected assessment of this highly important matter. It is ridiculous for  Senator Turnbull  to suggest, as he did, that we are playing politics. We have before us for discussion an intensely important matter which I trust will be viewed constructively, fairly and justly. Firstly, I want to say that  Senator Greenwood's  statement has all the hallmarks of proper and logical documentation that we have come to expect from this honest, able and sincere man. The statement of the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  was essentially one of attack on our former AttorneyGeneral. This vendetta has gone on a long time against our colleague,  Senator Greenwood.  It has not been founded on fact but rather on animosity arising from, I think, a jealous appreciation of this man's great and wide ability. In my opinion, the statement of the Attorney-General seemed to be out to denigrate  Senator Greenwood.  It does not identify what  Senator Murphy  relies on as evidence. 
As a layman this thought is in my mind and it must be in the minds of thousands of people throughout the nation: If  Senator Murphy's  statement can be given credence, if his allegations are well-founded that he has discovered the evidence in the raiding of our security organisation which he has said that he found, which was indictable, why has not he- 
If allegations and criticisms are to be made of the former AttorneyGeneral because he has not taken court action against anybody- 
How can  Senator Wheeldon,  as a lawyer, suggest that without firm foundation a court action can be entered into? The whole point is that there must be evidence of such a nature that it would stand up in a court. That' has not been present in the time of the former Attorney-General, in his assessment, to give a basis upon which court action could be taken. Yet we hear continuously this attack on  Senator Greenwood  for having taken a soft stand, as it were, against alleged Croatian terrorists.  Senator Greenwood  most succinctly pointed out this very core of the whole matter. In my assessment as an ordinary person using common sense, not as a legal man,  Senator Greenwood  has pointed out in his statement the very core of the whole matter. He said: 

 Senator Murphy claims that there is overwhelming evidence, incontestable evidence, of his allegation of terrorist organisations in this country. There are laws - in the Commonwealth Crimes Act - under which he- 
That is  Senator Murphy  - can prosecute persons and apply to the courts to declare such organisations to be unlawful. Parsons who cause death, injury and terror by exploding bombs are terrorists and liable to the full rigours of our criminal law. It is not only persons who commit the crimes but persons who conspire to commit crimes or who attempt to commit crimes who can be prosecuted. 
The laws exist, the offences exist, the determination  lo  stamp out political terrorism is asserted - and yet there have been no applications to the courts. 
We are speaking of a time before last weekend. 
I did not. The claims made by the Attorney-General refer to the past; not to last week-end, not in near proximity of time. The whole condemnation of  Senator Greenwood's  attitude has been based on why he did not take firm action. As a responsibile former Attorney-General, as the former head of the law of Australia,  Senator Greenwood  was not one who through innundoes. rumours or aspersions would enter into a court action. He is absolutely correct in his attitude to approaches in insisting that there be a base or real ground before any action could be taken. This is the mark of a responsible and decent person. In my opinion,  Senator Greenwood  has answered completely the Murphy case that he,  Senator Greenwood,  in the former Government had shown irresponsible indifference to allegations of the existence of Croatian terrorist activity. Throughout  Senator Greenwood's  statement it is clear and irrefutable that he did not take lightly at any time allegations concerning terrorist activity, whether it was on the part of an individual or collectively by organisations. It is utterly wrong to suggest that he was negligent in respect of his duties and responsibilities in this regard. 
My reply is that a responsible lawyer will act when he knows that he has correct grounds on which to act.  Senator Greenwood  has proved that the case against him has been based on very selective evidence, part of which was true but which was not the full truth. I deplore the fact that the Attorney-General should have selected, for his own purpose, in the process of denigrating  Senator Greenwood,  those things which suited his own convenience and his own case. Honourable senators opposite cannot indicate to me any part of  Senator Greenwood's  statement which was not completely logical, in sequence, in truth and based on fact. He would not tell half truths. 
 Senator Greenwood  has misled nobody. He has not denied that some extremists, acting as individuals, might be active in Australia. Speaking again as a layman, before action can be taken there has to be irrefutable ground for such action. I think that is quite an elementary principle. It must be. lt rather surprises me to hear lawyers in this place speaking and acting in certain ways which deny the basic principles of law as I, a humble citizen and a layman in the matter, can see them. There has been no denial of the possibility of organised terrorism here.  Senator Greenwood  has said that. He has not glossed over or denied that. He has been completely truthful and factual in his statement. What he has denied, and rightly so, is that any credible evidence on which to base court action could be found. The present Attorney-General, in spite of intense investigations, could not bring this to light. 
 Senator .  Murphy's statement did not refer to current events. Bear in mind that it was basically a denigration of a most honourable gentleman in this place who at all times has sought to fulfil his duties to his utmost ability, and to do so fearlessly and correctly. That is why I will not take into consideration at this stage what transpired last weekend. 
Leading up, though, to last weekend's raids was an attack on the Australian security system - ASIO - which attack was horrifying to any person who thinks that intrusions by politicians into an area- 
Wait a while. The organisation was set up by a previous government to be an independent source of information, which information was to be given as required to the government in office. 
I directed a question to the Attorney-General a few days ago. I asked whether at any time any information was denied him by ASIO. He said no, that he had full access. 
There was no denial of information to him, according to his reply to me. 
I am looking at the broad issue, not at individual cases. It is a basic principle. If there be political intrusion, as unfortunately there has been, into ASIO we are heading to a situation, which was correctly referred to this afternoon by  Senator Maunsell,  in which the Government will have control over the police and over the secret service and the whole set-up for a Gestapo or OGPU-type of thing. I believe that that is absolutely undeniable. I would like to know how many agents who have been supplying very useful and necessary information to security have left their work because of fear of reprisals to themselves if these raids continue and if names are divulged. This would possibly endanger the lives of those who are assisting national security by their actions. Any intrusion into a situation such as this certainly will dry up in Australia facilitities which ensure the highest levels of security and will lead to a drying up of confidence from security systems of friendly overseas nations that provide information to us. We will find ourselves increasingly in isolation from world knowledge and from areas in which we should have access to advice which is necessary for our national security. I regard the attack on ASIO as quite foreign to the actions of previous governments. I remind honourable senators that ASIO was not set up by a Liberal-Country Party coalition government. It was set up by a Labor government. 
The terms under which it was set up were set down at the time. It was to be independent of political influences. If that freedom is removed we are heading towards a police state. Australians do not want to be subjected to a knock on the door, the nocturnal visit of the police and the sort of rubbish which has happened in recent times. I am surprised that my friends opposite have not recoiled in horror at these large scale nocturnal visits which, in the main, have been on migrant families who have left their countries to come here to be free of that sort of intrusion. It is a frightening thought to them, as it is to older Australians who like to feel that their home is their castle. If a person has offended against the law there are methods of accosting him in the normal course of the law. The idea of raids and knocks at the door in the middle of the night in my opinion is completely out of accord with the Australian way of life and the Australian character and expectations. 
I refer now to the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  It commences with the words 'having carefully studied the statement'. I can assure honourable senators that the statement made by the Attorney-General was studied most closely by all of us. It is a mightily important document. It impinges so heavily on those principles about which we are concerned. It is a document of deep import and concern to all of us. The amendment seeks to leave out all words after 'that' and to insert in lieu:  having carefully studied the statement, the Senate resolves that the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  does not deserve the confidence of the Senate because: 
By tabling only selected documents, he attempted to mislead the Senate - 
A full and open submission containing not parts of but the whole truth is the only way in which confidence and acceptance can be gained. The amendment continues: 
He directed his statement to political criticism of his predecessor instead of to the national interest of good order and security - 
The overriding consideration here is national security and the good order of society. The amendment states further: 
For political purposes, he prematurely published confidential reports and information on current investigations and prosecutions whereby persons involved are very likely to be prejudiced - 
That is self-explanatory. The import and meaning of those words is clear to all of us on this side of the Senate. The amendment continues: 
He wantonly raided and damaged the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation without any justifiable explanation. 

 Senator Murphy has not justified his reasons for raiding the offices of ASIO in Canberra and Melbourne. The amendment concludes: 
By his actions and statements he has created  a  highly charged political atmosphere whereby many people in the community, particularly migrants, innocent of any offence, are fearful of the knock on the door in the middle of the night and other similar police state methods. 
It is true. Here is the introduction of an insidious new approach to law enforcement, and the finding of- 
I am referring- 
I ask my question of the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Federal Government proposes to replace cigarette advertising on television with antismoking advertising, sponsored by the Government? Does the Government propose to compensate television stations fully for loss of cigarette advertising revenue? If the Government picks up the tab completely, what is the estimated cost to the Government? 
 Acceptance of this Bill, which seeks to amend the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act 1946-1960, presents no problems for the Opposition. The Bill relates to section 15 of the principal Act, which provides that no action or proceedings, civil or criminal, shall lie against any person for broadcasting or rebroadcasting any portion of the proceedings of either House of Parliament. The Bill merely seeks to extend the protection of this section to the Territories not forming part of Australia. As was pointed out in the brief second reading speech delivered by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  the coverage sought is basically domestic but reception may extend to other areas because of variations in atmospheric conditions. The extension of protection, as I see it, is simply meeting a situation hitherto not covered. The Opposition supports this Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. To what point have negotiations or discussions proceeded in respect of reported proposals that one commercial television station licence in each of the capital cities may be withdrawn? Were the proposals motivated by adverse economic pressures on the stations? Are they desired by the commercial television industry? Is it, instead, the desire of the Government to make way for increased governmental involvement in television? 
Is the Minister for Works aware that Sydney waterside workers yesterday put a 24-hour ban on the loading of meat onto 2 ships bound for the United States of America and Japan? What action is being taken by the Government to meet this sort: of continuing irresponsible and frustrating attitude towards essential overseas trade? If no action is being taken by the Government, is it because it condones and encourages the watersiders' stance? 
 The Opposition supports this Bill which provides for the ratification of the removal of the residual 25c a gallon excise duty on wine. I welcome this legislation and commend the Government for its prompt action, in the first instance, for introducing a special regulation to remove this duty and then by introducing this legislation to ratify the removal of the duty. I am quite sure that when the excise duty of 50c a gallon was imposed on 18th August 1970 the adverse effects which would flow from that imposition at that time simply were not realised. The industry suffered a major setback at that time. Half of the impost was removed last year and now we have reached the situation of totally abolishing the duty. 
The grape growing and wine making industries in Australia are among our oldest established industries. They have a long and proud history. Looking back through the vicissitudes of the industries since their inception in a very humble and small way we see an indomitable spirit applied by the old families who got these industries going and who, through generations, built them up. The figures relating to the production of grapes and wine from those grapes indicate quite a saga. I refer to the production figures throughout Australia in the last 9 years. Iri 1963 the total production of grapes in the wine growing States of South Australia, New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia was 167,000 tons. In 1964 total production was 211,000 tons, there was a further increase in production in 1965 and a recession in 1966. But there has been a trend of improvement all the way since that time. In 1970 there was an all time high in production of 352,000 tons of grapes. In 1971 production reached 288,000 tons, and in 1972 it was 338,000 tons. This is big production in anybody's terms. 
I should like to point out the importance of the grape growing industry through all the activities connected with grape growing - the propagation, the planting, the trellising, and the caring for the vines. The ancillary industry which grows about the grape growing industry makes it one of the most intensively producing rural industries in Australia. A lot of benefit flows to the nation generally through the demands created by this industry. In the wine making industry we find very heavy capitalisation and demands being made for the supply of equipment and so on. All the time this is providing employment in rural areas and that is greatly appreciated by people in those areas. In my own home area of the Barossa, through the years I have noted, with great pride and happiness, the growth of the wine making industry. The makers have had great pride in their establishments and have co-operated splendidly with the growers. Through the years the cooperative wine industry has played a very singular part in providing an outlet for the growers' produce. The wine industry - be it in the Old World or here - has always shown a very high sensitivity to imposts. Wine is a very price conscious commodity. We saw the effect of the 50c excise. I hope that we have learnt a lesson and that in Australia we will never again impose a charge of that nature on the industry. Grape growing and wine making are one of the few industries - they are complementary - which through the years have not received a penny of direct governmental assistance. They have been ruggedly individualistic and self-reliant. For production and sales to be in a good situation we have to ensure buoyancy for the industry as a whole. There are increased plantings, and greater tonnages are being processed. There have to be markets for this produce, either locally or overseas. 
The 1972 vintage produced 61,920,000 gallons of wine of which table wines constituted 21,093,000 gallons. Dessert wines, sherry and flavoured wines accounted for 11,943,000 gallons and the balance of approximately 29 million gallons was used for distillation for grape spirit and for brandy. We have no statistics at the moment for sales in 1972. Looking back to sales in 1970-71, we find that on the local market sales of table and sparkling wines increased by 1.9 per cent from the previous year and accounted for 12,666,000 gallons. Approximately 8.5 million more gallons of non-fortified wines were produced than were sold. Of the fortified wines 11,755,000 gallons were sold as against a production of 11.9 million gallons; so production and sales were even Stephen. It is interesting to note the growth in the production and sale of table wines as compared to the fortified wines. Table wine production accounts for 64 per cent of total wine production now whereas 5 years ago it accounted for only 49 per cent. I think that this is an excellent move into an area of wine acceptance. Table wines augment and complement good food. They are consumed with food at table and are of low alcoholic content. We in Australia are still far behind other countries in relation to per capita consumption. But because of the quality of the wines now being produced and the acceptance of them in increasing quantity I feel that our wine consumption per capita will increase year by year. 
In 1971-72 1,744,000 gallons of wine were exported. It was sent to 74 different countries. This compares with the figure of 1.4 million gallons for the previous year. Not a very great amount of our wine is being exported at this stage. It is of concern to note that there has been no progress in increasing our brandy sales. This has been due to the highly competitive situation which has arisen, particularly from South Africa, on our brandy export markets. Also brandy from overseas is making inroads into our own sales here. I feel that this constitutes an unfair intrusion because in most instances it does not match up with the requirements of our brandy producers in Australia. I realise that this matter is being looked at very closely by the Government at the present time. I hope that reasonable protection will be provided for our home produced beverage. 
Stocks of wine in Australia as at 30th June 1972 consisted of 37.9 million gallons of table and sparkling wines, 33 million gallons of fortified wines, and 6.1 million gallons of brandy. These arc big stocks. Again, this emphasises my point that we have to ensure at all times as far as we possibly can that the industry remains buoyant. As I have pointed out the provision of employment and the radiation from this industry generally to other industry in Australia is of real importance to our economy. I am very happy indeed, as I know all honourable senators on both sides of the chamber are, that the last vestige of excise on table wines has been removed. 
Before I resume my seat I shall make brief reference to criticisms which have been made of the wine industry. I regard the criticisms in regard to alleged increases in price as being misplaced, unfair and unjustified. In 1970 the wholesale section of the winemaking industry in Australia reduced its price. It did so again in May last year when the 25c reduction in excise came about. The increase in price which has been criticised can be traced invariably to the retailers of the wine, particularly the restaurateurs who charge very high prices. It must be pointed out in fairness to the vignerons that since 1970 the industry has paid out $3.1m more in wages than it did in 1970 and $2.9m more for the raw" material - grapes. This is of vital importance to the producer who has to meet increased costs of production. He also faced an increased cost of $2.1m for bottles. Other components in the industry have gone up. I have listed 3 areas of increase in the industry which total some $8m. So I think the criticisms which have been levelled at the industry are - in the words which I used - misplaced, unfair and unjustified. I have much pleasure in supporting this Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have Government measures, introduced to curb the inflow of investment capital from overseas sources, in a matter of weeks, led to a virtual dryingup of this source of funds. 
Has the Government assessed the long-term effects of the absence of such funds on the general development of the economy. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The measures to which the honourable senator refers do, I am glad to say, appear to have been extremely successful in stemming those inflows of overseas funds against which they were specifically directed. 
The Government's immediate aim is to attain a better balance in Australia's external position. This will in itself have desirable effects on the general development of the Australian economy. In framing its policies, the Government has also taken into account the relevant longer term consideration. 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour which is related to a question asked a few minutes ago by  Senator Gietzelt.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the seriously depressed value of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. shares arising from the meagre return on that Company's funds, particularly in relation to its steel interests? How does he reconcile this position with  Senator Gieztelt's  reference to excessive profits in industry? 
The Opposition supports this Bill. It's provisions are extensions of allocations previously made under the State's Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill 1972. They allow for an extra $7,500,000 for expenditure in various areas in which the previous Government made allocations. As I say, the provision of this $7,500,000 extra grant is a continuation of past policy and procedure. The grant will be used for housing, health, education, employment, special works projects and regional projects. The amount of $ 14.5m was provided previously. Now, a total of $22m will be provided. The continuation of the policy of betterment of the Aboriginal people is to be applauded. I must point out that there has been a continuing increase in allocations for Aboriginal advancement. In 1971-72 the total Commonwealth provision for expenditure in this field rose to $3 1.3m. In 1972-73, it rose to 53,285,000, an increase of 70 per cent. I believe that Aboriginal advancement, in the fullest meaning of the term, constitutes one of the most vexed, difficult and complex problems confronting any administration. It is certainly a major matter for consideration by this Government as it has been by previous governments. 
I wish the Government well in its efforts to meet this very challenging and demanding situation. It is a very human problem to be viewed with the utmost sympathy, patience and understanding. No common denominator of betterment can be applied uniformly across the whole spectrum of Aboriginal interest. The needs of the Aborigines differ so dramatically and greatly. This was brought home very strongly and deeply to me and my fellow honourable senators who were members of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment before the Committee's reconstitution. It inquired into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait islanders. In our movements around Australia we went to the Northern Territory, Arnhem Land, Alice Springs and out from there and we visited the north west coast of Western Australia. It is only when one sees for oneself the whole gamut of situations, the variations of conditions for the Aborigine and the way in which he lives that one becomes mindful of the massive problem that he poses to the country. 1 wish the Government well in its attempt to meet that major challenge. 
Difficulties arise because there are tribal Aborigines, semi-tribal Aborigines and urbanised Aborigines. Each category has problems peculiar to itself. The tribal Aborigines have little contact with Western civilisation. The semi-tribal Aborigines, those who move into places such as Alice Springs, Darwin or any major centre of population, have some contact, but they come and they go. Their problems are different from the problems of the Aborigines who reside permanently on a particular settlement or in a town or city. I believe that the underlying purpose of Aboriginal advancement is the provision of a kind of assistance which will enable Aborigines to stand on their own feet rather than to have to resort to massive handouts. The self respect of Aborigines is vital. It has been wonderful to see their deep respect for and their pride in their traditions and their people, most especially in those Aborigines who are not completely urbanised. That is a most noble trait in the character of Aborigines. I have been deeply impressed by the Aborigines who have not been in contact with our civilisation. We have to ensure that that self respect which these good people have is had by all Aborigines, particularly those who live in the cities. They have a sort of resentment and a feeling of being pushed aside. Because the problem is a human one, it will be improved only by an approach to the humanities. 
Although finance is vitally important, it is not the most important factor. An understanding of their problems is the most important factor. Let them feel that they are taking part and that there is an involvement by themselves in their own affairs. They should not have the impression: 'I am told to do this; I must do it. I have had no part in determining this attitude or policy. I will go along with it. but I am doing what I am told to do'. There has to be a greater provision for involvement by Aborigines in their own affairs. We should encourage and strengthen their capacity to do this. I believe that we should strive for their economic independence and to reduce existing social and other handicaps which face them in respect of health, housing, education and vocational training. We should promote their enjoyment of normal civil liberties. The Opposition supports the Bill. I commend the Government for the increase that the Bill provides in various areas. The increase is required. I hope that the application of the increase will lead to that to which alt of us aspire, that is, the real betterment of the Aboriginal people. 
 Mr Deputy President,  would it suit the convenience of the Senate to have a cognate second reading debate covering this Bill and the Excise Bill 1973 as they are associated matters? 
 The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Is it the wish of the Senate to have a cognate debate covering the 2 measures? There being no objection, I will allow that course to be followed. 
The Opposition does not oppose either the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1973 or the Excise Bill 1973. The amendment contained in the first Bill seeks to provide for the exemption from excise duty of home brewed beer, that is, beer brewed for noncommercial purposes, 
In his second reading speech the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  said that there has been an upsurge in public interest in home brewing in recent years but that persons doing this had either to restrict the strength of the beverage they brewed to a maximum of 1.15 per cent by volume of alcohol or take out a licence to manufacture beer and pay excise duty on the amount produced. I think that this is quite realistic and sensible legislation. It is known that for many years amateurs have sought to brew beer in their own homes and that they have done so with varying success. The brewing of beer at home is something which will go on no matter what one may do by way of legislation to make it legal or illegal. 
It is only fair and reasonable, as those who desire to produce their own non-fortified wines can do so to the extent of 400 gallons per person, that there should be an acceptance of the principle that persons have the right to brew their own beer at home. From my observations it is a most intriguing and interesting exercise. 
In spite of the modern processes which are available, capsules, strings, bits of wire and so on are still used. It may be that this situation will improve. Despite all the precautions he may take a home brewer when opening a bottle of beer may find its contents exploding in his hand. Despite the amount of brewing which is estimated to be going on at home there has not been any great infringement on the overall beer consumption. Home brewing is something of interest to certain individuals. 
I commend the Government for approaching realistically a matter that is with us. It has approached it in a manner which removes the stigma of taking a furtive look over the shoulder because a person is brewing a little ale. The Opposition raises no objection to this Bill. Personally 1 welcome it, as I say, as a matter of realism, practicality and common sense. 
I think that it is well to take some note, in the first instance, of the traditional and formal wording of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech with which  His Excellency  the Governor-General opened this session of the Parliament. Those words are: 
We, the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled, desire to express our loyalty  to our Most Gracious Sovereign, and to thank Your  Excellency  for the Speech which you have been pleased to address to Parliament. 
It is a good thing to see the use of those words continued as a parliamentary tradition because so much is contained in the 2 sections of those lines. We express loyalty to Her Majesty the Queen and respect to her represetative in Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
I ask the Special Minister of State, in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Has any formal reply been received from the Yugoslav Government in response to the protest note forwarded on 13th April? If not, is this delay far greater than the terms of the protest warrant? Has any indication been given as to when a reply will be received? What further action is the Government proposing to take to ensure that a government with which it claims to have friendly relations will respond promptly to communications addressed to it? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Works who represents the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware of the difficulties now being experienced by the Kangaroo Island residents in respect of regular air communication with the mainland arising from the unsatisfactory condition of the Kingscote Airport runways in wet weather? Is he aware that the airport has been closed to air traffic after as little as 65 points of rain, as was again experienced this week? Will the Minister draw the attention of the Minister for Civil Aviation to the urgent need for the sealing of the main runway at the Kingscote aerodrome? 
I direct this question to the Minister for Primary Industry: Can it be inferred from his earlier reply to  Senator Withers'  question concerning Government policy with respect to matching primary production to world demands that systems of production quotas and controls are envisaged? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the reference in the National Radiation Advisory Committee report which stresses that nuclear tests in either the northern or southern hemisphere could harm Australia, I ask: Has the Government been provided with any information from official sources in China with respect to the degree and measurement of fallout resulting from Chinese nuclear explosions? If not, beyond the consideration of rotational and atmospheric movement influences to which the AttorneyGeneral has already referred, on what grounds does he claim that the Chinese explosions are not as detrimental to the Australian environment as the French explosions are? 
by leave - I feel impelled to register my apprehension and concern at what I see as a trend away from the authority of Senate committees. I believe that the trend towards joint committees represents a weakening of the system of committees that we have developed in this Senate. 1 think we should be mighty careful to protect what we have gained and what has been proven to be a good system. Our system should not be submerged into a joint system that takes from this Senate the authority and ability to do those things which, as I have said, in recent years have been shown to be so good both for this institution and for the Parliament as a whole. 
I thank honourable senators for the freedom they have given me to say these few words since I know that  Senator Murphy,  the Leader of the Government in the Senate, has replied. I feel very strongly about this. I am impelled to make these remarks in an atmosphere or aura, as it were, of concern that in the long term interests of this very important part of our parliamentary system we should take heed of what is being done. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Death Penalty Abolition Bill 1973 was introduced into the Senate by the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy.  The purpose of this Bill is to abolish the death penalty from the laws under the jurisdiction of the Australian Parliament, except those of Papua New Guinea. I have spoken previously on this matter. I again reaffirm my conviction that the death penalty should remain on the statute book. Society as a whole should have the assurance that its basic interests are being maintained and protected. I appreciate that a very heavy burden is ultimately placed on the Executive in respect to the making of a final decision as to whether a death sentence should be commuted to life inprisonment 
In those States where the death penalty exists it is customary, after a court has considered a crime in which a life has been taken and imposed a death sentence, for the condemned person to make an application for mercy and for the Executive to have the final decision as to whether mercy should be granted. Bearing in mind the very close attention that is given to every detail in a court case concerning such a serious charge as that of the taking of a life there is no possible chance of a person being wrongly convicted. If there is a shadow of doubt as to a person's guilt that shadow of doubt should of itself ensure that no adverse penalty will be imposed on him. With those background comments, I say again that 1 believe that legislation providing for the death penalty should remain on the statute book. 
Clause 4 of the Bill is really the potent clause. It expressly provides that a person is not liable to the punishment of death for any offence. Currently the only domestic crime on mainland territories to which the death penalty applies is that of murder. Under this Bill treason, offences committed on board aircraft which could endanger the lives of passengers and crew, the killing of a person protected by the Geneva Convention and certain crimes covered by defence legislation are all punishable by death and will be removed by clause 4 from the list of offences currently punishable by death. Clause 5 substitutes the penalty of life imprisonment in every case where a Federal Act now prescribes the death sentence. 
This is indeed very sweeping legislation with which I cannot agree. I am deeply conscious that the aboliton or retention of the death sentence is one of the most disturbing and soul-searching questions that could confront anyone in our society, most particularly those persons responsible for the final determining of what legislative provisions should be made in this matter. My firm belief is that legislation which provides for the death sentence should remain for those persons who take the lives of others in civil life and for those persons who transgress against society in any of the categories now punishable by death under Federal law. 
Far too often do we see excessive consideration and sympathy given to the offender in society, but scant consideration given to the offended and their relatives. 1 believe it is our bounden duty to give to the public at large, through appropriate laws, the sense of basic security to which it is entitled. No one wants unwarrantedly and unfairly to inflict hurt or harm on another person who has committed a very serious offence. There is no ghoulish pleasure in adopting this course. But there is a real need to maintain the social sense of security to which I have referred. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  said in his second reading speech that there is a world trend against the death penalty. 1 doubt the veracity of that claim. One has only to note the attitudes now being strongly presented in Great Britain and in certain States of the United States of America, where the death sentence has been abolished, to see that there is a great clamour for its reinstatement. This shows up in the light of extremely unsocial behaviour and lack of respect for human life. The. obvious realisation in the countries and States to which I have referred is that there should remain at least in the background, with every protection of law accorded to a person charged, this very serious and ultimate penalty for those who transgress against society in a way which in itself would tend to undermine its very basis. 
On the local scene I have noticed that a group of senior airline pilots in Australia of Whom the head is Captain Terrell claims that all governments should introduce the death penalty for aircraft hijackers. Captain Terrell is only expressing the deep concern which is being felt by many people who fear the liberties that are taken irrespective of the effect of their actions on others, the fear of hijackers or those who would board aircraft for possible monetary gain and in the process endanger the lives of many people. This is so unsocial in itself that it should carry the very heaviest penalty, and there is no heavier penalty than the loss of the offender's life. 1 do not approach this matter with any degree of bias or lightness, but I firmly believe that it is our duty to ensure that in the background we have legislation which docs give a feeling of confidence that those who direct the affairs of society generally are cognisant of the great need to have background protection which indicate that concern exists for the welfare of the public generally. I oppose this Bill quite strongly. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the acute shortage of influenza vaccine in South Australia, concern about which has been expressed by  Dr Mellows,  the  President  of the State Branch of the Australian Medical Association? What is the cause of this shortage? When is it expected that all necessary supplies of the vaccine will be available in South Australia? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labour subscribe to the glib theory put forward yesterday by the Minister for Labour that the increase of approximately $ 1,000m in the annual national wages bill can be absorbed by commerce and industry without increases in prices and service costs? If so, on what rational economic grounds can (his claim be sustained? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: What has been the effect of his virtual ultimatum to the British television companies that unless they buy more Australian programs on a friendly and voluntary basis he will have to 'consider other measures'? Will the Minister indicate, what he has in mind in saying that 'other measures' will have to be applied? 
In directing a question to the Minister for Primary Industry, I refer to the Government's pre-election promise to provide long term, low interest loans to primary producers. Have any final determinations yet been made on this matter? If not, when is it expected that decisions will be made and when will they be announced? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Is it a fact that an election is to be held on 11th August in which only Aboriginal voters will be eligible to cast their votes for .' .the purpose ' of electing 80 representatives from all States and the Northern Territory to the 'National Aboriginal Consultative Committee? (s it a fact that these representatives are - to be paid a minimum salary of $10,000 , a year, plus expenses? Is it a fact that maps, of Australia showing the new Aboriginal electoral boundaries have been published by the Division of National Mapping of the Department of Minerals and Energy and are currently circulating among Aboriginal members of the National Steering Committee? Is it a fact that Aboriginal members of the National Steering Committee have been instructed to keep any information regarding the proposed elections a tight secret until these matters have been discussed at the State conferences of the National Steering Committee to be held about mid-June? Will the Minister inform the Senate how much the proposed National Aboriginal Consultative Committee is estimated to cost the Treasury? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government is planning $1 for $1 grants to public organisations to purchase works of Australian artists? If so, what safeguards are proposed to ensure that public moneys will be directed to the purchase of paintings and sculptures of real merit and value? On whose authority will eligibility for subsidy finally be determined? 
I direct this question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister. Has the Government made an assessment of the economic cost to Australia of the unions' boycott of the French arising from the French nuclear testing policy? As the Government has done nothing but utter pious hopes and issue admonitions to the unions to refrain from their boycott, from now on can the nation expect trade and foreign policies to be determined and enforced by other than governmental authority? 
I rise lo support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech with which  His Excellency,  the 
Governor-General, opened this session of Parliament on 27th February and the amendments which are attached to that motion. First I refer to the 2 formal paragraphs at the commencement of the motion. In the second paragraph we take the opportunity to reaffirm our allegiance to  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen, and in this I warmly concur. I pay tribute to  His Excellency  the Governor-General for the manner in which he discharges the duties of his high office. We have been singularly fortunate in the gentlemen of Australian background we have had to fill this very important post. Without doubt  Sir Paul  Hasluck is doing a magnificent service as he performs the duties of Governor-General of Australia. 
The outstanding feature of the Speech, as I see it, is the emphasis, placed on social questions. We are all in favour of bettering our way of life. That is one of the really motivating forces in society. But I am concerned that the base from which comes the ability to improve conditions in the social structure be really sound and firm to enable us to do what we aspire to do across the whole board of governmental spending. On page 9 of his Speech appears one of the wisest paragraphs of the whole Speech. It reads: 
The extensive program of educational, welfare and urban and public transport reform and renewal planned by my Government can only be achieved on the basis of sound economic growth. 
It is not until page 9 that the GovernorGeneral reaches reference to what is so basic to enabling us to do those things which we desire as a society. 
The stability of the economy is the matter to which 1 wish to refer specifically this evening. We cannot have a stable economy unless productivity matches costs as far as possible. The continued growth of our economy is vital to our well being and we must not be insular in our attitudes towards investment from overseas. Recently the American Ambassador,  Mr Rice,  said that Australia could lose. the United States market. This market now takes from us no less than 12.6 per cent of our total exports which are worth a total of $615. 3m. We import from America goods to the value of $872.6m, or 21.8 per cent of our total imports. It is vitally important to have a nation such as that on the friendliest of terms in business co-operation and in policies which are of importance to ensure a stable world situation. I noted that the Ambassador said recently that Australia could lose her exports to the United States if she became too nationalistic or protectionist. We have to heed this sort of warning. If we do not, we will not be able to provide the things that we wish to provide and thus be able to improve our standing. The Ambassador was reported as having said:   it would be shortsighted for any country to assume that the US would remain forever a free trade nation with low tariffs, generous import quotas and free outward flow of capital and technology. Hie protectionist advocates in America could well win their objective of putting a wall around our economy if our trade partners drastically restricted the flow of our exports or completely cut off our participation in their economies. 
He went on to say that Australia and other countries faced a choice - whether to build economic bridges to other nations or to erect walls to restrict the inflow of foreign imports and investments. The American Ambassador is also reported in this way: 
At present there are 6 Bills before Congress, all aimed at restricting the export of our capital, our technology, our patents, our skills and executives. 
Should Australia, through very small or parochial attitudes, say that we can provide for ourselves through the generation of our own capital, that we can learn skills in our own time at our research places and so on. and  then  deny access to us of that which has been of such real benefit to the growth of our economy in recent decades, we will be heading into a situation where, as wealthy as we may feel that we are as a nation, we will not be able to sustain the growth and the living standards which has marked our economy and society in recent decades. We all have to realise that we cannot take more out of the barrel than we put into it. We can regard ourselves as a very strong nation economically, but according to world standing we are not at this stage of our development a nation capable of doing all of those things within our own capacity if we want to make adequate use of our natural resources and ensure to our populace a betterment in its standard of living, as is so enthusiastically and imaginatively described as the aspiration of this Government. 
There is a real need for firm and effective measures to control inflation. To have measures which are to be applied at the end result of policies that generate inflationary conditions, and then to try to put stoppers on price increases and on costs with money buying less and less is not a sound long term pol icy. Consideration has to be given in the first place to the things which generate heat in the economy and which lead to inflation to the degree which unfortunately we are now experiencing. Over the past 10 or 12 years we have seen an inflationary tendency no higher than  2i  per cent to 3 per cent on average. It has gone higher in the more recent part of that period. Today we are faced with an inflationary condition of from 8 per cent to 10 per cent. With the very high deficit which now looms ahead of our national finances - in excess of $ 1,000m, one-tenth of our national budget - there are elements prevailing which could lead to a situation of decreased value of money here which would wreck the very basis of our economic structure. 
There should be continuing encouragement to private industry and commerce. I was pleased to note that the export incentive schemes are to be continued at least until 30th June next year. I believe that Australia has an absolute need to build up its export trade. At present 75 per cent of our export income is derived from primary industries - 50 per cent from the agricultural sector and 25 per cent from minerals. The remaining 25 per cent comes from our manufactures. It is in the manufacturing field that we should seek to increase our earnings of overseas funds which enable employment opportunities here in Australia. The money paid as export incentives to industry has been in no small measure a major factor in building up our exports in recent years. I think it is most necessary that the immigration policies which were pursued by the previous Government continue to be persued. Certainly we are looking at somewhat reduced numbers to meet the economic situation of li to 2 years ago, but unless we have an active immigration policy which brings us skills and assistance in the labour field we will not have the generation within our own economy on the local scene that we need to have to continue the growth that has marked our economy in the last couple of decades. 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  moved an amendment in the following terms to the original motion: 
That the following words be added to the AddressinReply: ', but the Senate is of the opinion and regrets that - The Government in its conduct of the nation's affairs has subordinated the security and welfare of the Australian people on whose behalf it should govern to the factional decisions of the Conference and Executive of the Australian Labor Party, in that: 
without regard to either economic or social consequences it intends to award Government contracts to employers who will comply with trade union policies; 
For many years, contracts have been let on the basis of price and capacity to complete the work with a high quality performance. Those were the accepted considerations which governed the letting of contracts by Government to industries. If a system is to be introduced which foregoes those basic requirements, I can see far greater funds being required from the taxpayer to meet Government expenditures in many areas. 
The amendment moved by  Senator Withers  continues: 
in defiance of its election policy, it attempted to introduce compulsory unionism for Commonwealth public servants; 
As honourable senators understand, this refers to the events of some weeks ago. We know the result of action taken in the Senate which rejected the principle that preference be given to unionists in the Commonwealth Public Service. 
At the moment, I am speaking of the Federal Government. 
I am speaking of the Federal Government at the moment. The amendment continues: 
it has pursued and intends to pursue defence and foreign policies which are contrary to Australia's international treaty obligations and which ignore or reject long established bonds with traditional and trusted allies; 
This is one area in which I am at great variance with the Government which has so rapidly and so ruthlessly cut off to a large degree old and proven associations with the United States of America, the United Kingdom and other allies and adopted so definitely new policies in which those who follow other than our democratic system of government have been paramount. I deplore the recognition of North Vietnam and East Germany and the hurt and harm done to our foreign relations with the United States through quite objectionable and disgusting criticisms of the  President  of the United States and his personnel. These are actions which have been disruptive to all that we hold to be so necessary and which has proved to be so helpful to our nation for many years. 
The amendment also states:  and further the Senate views with alarm-- 
economic decisions which take no account of their impact on the nation's exporters and their employees; 
I would have had a close look at the collective effect of the 2 revaluations. We must be so careful in regard to the income received from our exports to ensure that that revenue continues to be available to give our industries in the first place the ability to sell at prices which will enable them to make profits, of which the Government receives half. The incomes earned by our industries must maintain industrial buoyancy and the basic resources which are the background necessary to maintaining the economic capacity to meet the commitments into which we are entering in many ways. I have referred constantly to this need. 
The Australian Mining Industry Council has estimated that the February 1973 devaluation of the United States dollar cost the 20 largest mining company groups in Australia $143.5m in gross revenue in a full year. This figure relates to the revenue lost irrespective of the destination of the mineral exports, but it would largely relate to exports of iron ore and coal destined for Japan, the contracts for which are written in United States dollars. The net decrease in after tax. profit by the same group of companies is estimated at $76.7m. I understand that those figures have been checked and are correct. Half of the income earned by Australian companies which export their goods is absorbed in taxation. That taxation revenue enables us to acquire funds to carry out necessary programs in Australia. 
I am concerned that taxation concessions be provided to encourage exploration and to create an ability to extract from the ground those minerals which we need. A lot of capital is required to carry out this work. In many instances it is risk capital and taxation concessions are necessary to ensure an active interest in the exploitation of these minerals. 
1 am very concerned at the action of the Government. Any decrease in interest in mineral exploration will become a national disability and cause national harm. Irrespective of where national income is derived, every person in the community obtains some benefit from it. On the basis of the figures that 1 have quoted from the Australian Mining Industry Council, a rough estimate indicates that the combined effect of the December 1972 and February 1973 revaluations would be of the order of $230m in gross revenue lost and $120m in decreased net after tax profit in a full year. An impact of that type coupled with growing costs arising from a situation in which inflation is increasing steeply must throw in doubt Australia's ability to sustain the budgets which have been introduced in the past. The control in a reasonable way of the value of the Australian dollar becomes a major problem and one deserving the deep consideration of each individual. 
This is the very thing that we seek to do and that we have achieved. We know that 85 per cent of our industries are owned by Australians. It is through this capacity to generate successful industries here that we can have greater participation in the resources of the nation and in that which it produces. 
I wish to refer to a paragraph which appears on the first page of the printed copy of the Governor-General's Speech, lt states: 
The program which my new Government proposes is designed  lo  achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society in the lifetime of this Parliament. 
Those are not idle words. It is most obvious that in the short time that this Government has been in office we have seen some radical changes. I doubt whether many of them are very good for the long term interests and benefit of our country. With the new administration has come a proliferation of Government departments and a great growth in the Public Service. I have a great respect and regard for the Public Service as such and for the men and women who work in it. The proliferation of Government departments, bearing in mind the Australian population, has become a matter of concern to us. We think there should be a balance between the public and private sectors. When reference is made to the structure of the Australian society during the life of this Parliament, we can certainly see that there are changes which are, at base, potentially dangerous. It behoves honourable senators who, to a certain degree, have different attitudes in relation to certain matters, that they should at all times keep a close watch on the proposals brought forward that do not pay regard to the long term benefit and the wellbeing of the nation in general. I support the motion, as amended by  Senator Withers. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Tt is not in accordance with the custom and practice of the Senate for honourable senators to peruse newspapers or books other than those relating to the proceedings before the Parliament. I think that this is a habit that has gone unchecked, lt would be well for honourable senators to bear in mind that it is not in order to read newspapers in the Senate chamber. 
Has the attention of  the Minister for the Media been drawn to concern expressed by the Melbourne manager of Reg Grundy Enterprises, an organisation which produces  30  hours of popular television a week, that adoption of the proposed points system will lead to the loss of jobs of about 200 people and will cost the industry about $750,000 a year? Are these factors being given consideration by the Minister? Is the Minister committed to the points system as announced or will the system be varied to meet the reasonable requirements of the television industry and the popular demand for which.it caters? 
My question is  addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has a decision yet been made by the Government in respect of the provision of long term finance for rural producers? If so, what are the details? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to statistics issued yesterday by the Reserve Bank of Australia which reveal that during the March quarter inward capital movements dropped $27 8m from the $550m level in the corresponding 3 months of last year? Is the Government perturbed at this significant decline insofar as  it  affects future prospects of national development? 
 I redirect to the Minister representing the Treasurer the question which 1 asked earlier in respect to capital inflow into Australia. I ask the Minister the second part of the question which is the crux of it. Is the Government perturbed at the significant decline in capital inflow insofar as it affects future prospects of national development? 
I seek some clarification of paragraph (1) of clause 16. Clause 16 deals with the particular powers of the Authority. Paragraph (1) states that the Authority has power: to subscribe for or otherwise acquire, and to dispose of, shares in a company. 
I seek some clarification of the intent of this paragraph. It seems to me that, by reason of the paragraph, the Authority could enter into other activity quite distinct from constructing a pipeline and acting as a common carrier with ability to purchase and to sell petroleum, lt could take over a refinery. It could do all sorts of things which go far beyond the original intent, as I see it, of this Bill. 
I address my question to the Minister for Works in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the expressed intention of the Commonwealth Government to take over direct responsibility for Aborigines throughout Australia. Will this be done only with the full concurrence of each State Government? Will introduction of legislation designed to: facilitate the transfer of State officers involved in the administration of Aboriginal affairs be deferred until such time as all States are prepared to accede to - Commonwealth Government proposals? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I think it is appropriate to that portfolio. To what extent does the Government propose to enter into the private enterprise section of drug manufacturing in Australia? Does it aim for government monopoly in this field? 
I have no respect for this sort of legislation. This Bill is founded on the improper and unsupported assumption that all of Australia's largest companies are charging too much for their goods and services. The Government has no power to fix prices, so it decided on a course of what I regard a* intimidation. This Bill certainly is not the creation of people who have had experience in trade and industry. In my opinion, the whole concept of the provisions of the Bill has no practical or fair base. Everybody in Australia today realises that our biggest threat is inflation. It has an impact on every person in the community, most especially on the wageearner, on the recipient of a benefit, on the person who lives on a given set income from week to week and month to month. Inflation cannot be overcome at the end of the processes of industrial and economic activity. Inflation must be tackled at the beginning of the industrial and economic processes. 
This morning I -listened with great interest to  Senator Cotton  refer to a graph in the June edition of 'Australian Industries Development Association, Bulletin No. 242'. This chart shows the position very clearly. This morning  Senator Cotton  referred to it succinctly as giving the main base from which inflation has come. This graph is worth referring to again because it clearly shows the main cause of inflation. Between March 1967 and December 1972 - a period of 5 years - price and productivity increases would have justified a wage and salary increase as high as 38.7 per cent. Average weekly earnings per employed male unit increased in that period by 61.5 per cent. The increase in average weekly earnings was 22.8 per cent in excess of price and productivity increases. Anybody would concede that in that situation there has to be price increases. There is no way out of it. This Government must realise that it must take off the heat and the pressures which lead to an inflationary situation. Inflation has been an aggravating problem through the years. Until the last couple of years we had an average increase in inflation of not more than 3 per cent per year. That rate was sustainable and, on world viewing, was a very gratifying level. We could carry it within the economy and ensure to the recipients of wages the ability to buy reasonably. The prices of goods and services were in relation to that increase and were sustainable. 
We find now the suggestion before us that there should bc a tribunal, not consisting of people skilled or trained in interpreting price increases. Single members of the Tribunal could look at a certain industry. There is no guideline or general background determining what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. An arbitrary determination is to be made. If a price increase is found, in lite opinion of the Tribunal, or a sub-committee of it, not to be justified, the Tribunal has no legal authority to do anything about it except to advertise the fact in the Press. Therefore there is a situation of blackmail or intimidation in a way which is most unfair to commerce and industry. That is why I said, when I rose to speak in this debate on this Bill, that I have no respect for this sort of legislation. 
The companies affected directly by the proposals in this Bill are those which have a turnover of more than $20m a year. There are about 350 companies or organisations in Australia which come into this category but there are thousands of smaller businesses which supply goods to those major companies. Those smaller businesses can increase their prices in their own right without reference to anybody, except in States where there is price control. In South Australia we have price control on certain articles, but there we have pretty firm guidelines and the system is well set up constitutionally, as much as I do not like price control as such as an economic measure to ensure the retention of low price levels. 
That is the point. The smaller companies which supply the big organisations can increase their prices. The man who retails them - the man who takes them from the smaller company - is forbidden to increase his prices perhaps for 3 months. This means that the big man will not purchase from the smaller man until a determination is made about the price he can charge for the increased cost of that article from the smaller man. So there is a direct impost of hardship on the small manufacturer. This will not assist the small businessman; it will hurt him greatly. It will cause a fantastic amount of concern and book work for the big organisations, and possibly they will defer handling certain articles while the little businessman bears the whole brunt of the matter at the beginning. 
This is ill-conceived legislation. It is an intrusion into the processes of the normal economic management of our businesses. .1 wonder sometimes why such definite animosity is expressed about the word 'profit' and about making a profit. As  Senator Carrick  said a short time ago, there would be no revenue for the Government to do the things which are so necessary and so beneficial for the public at large if there was no profit. Companies, no matter how big or small, pay about one half their initial earnings into the revenue. Then there is payroll tax, sales tax and a number of incidental taxes down the line, all of which provide to the Government the means by which it can do the things which governments are expected to do for the whole community. In my opinion it is wrong to regard business, commerce and industry as an ogre intent on creating 'hardship and harm to the people in general. This Bill, of its very conception, cannot do anything about the major problem of inflation. It is unfortunate that this sort of buck passing that is occurring by the introduction of this legislation even should have been thought of in the first instance, lt is a system of intimidation and blackmail and an unfair imposition on commerce and industry. lt has been said that we could get on quite well without the so-called profitable organisations and that they could do with less and less profit. Those of us who are engaged in business know that in the process of receiving less and less profit, unless plant and equipment can be maintained reasonably well, prices cannot be held down nor can the company concerned compete. There is a necessity at all times for business to generate sufficient replacement capital to maintain efficient companies. If we start dealing with the problem from this end of practicalities, considering the profit bases from which cheaper goods can be produced, continuity can be preserved and we will be working from a sound base. But to come in at the end as this confounded Bill does and put a stopper on prices in the way it does is utterly ridiculous. I have no respect for this. The Government is completely illadvised. I know that this is the policy of the Government. It was announced that a Prices Justification Tribunal would be introduced. I am quite certain that it is not thought out with any degree of basic concern as to whether or not it is a goer. It is one of those things that sound good. 
It is quite easy to say that we will control costs so as to arrest inflation or that we will do this or that. What is the present situation with regard to inflationary movements? The present inflation rate is 10 per cent per annum and it will be higher. This must have a bad impact right throughout the community. This legislation will only aggravate the situation and the difficulties for business in times of inflation. It will not do anything of benefit. I have no desire to speak any longer on this matter. I just wanted to record my attitude to this sort of legislation. I regard it as puerile, futile, most ill-conceived and not in the best interests of the economy as a whole. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! Before I call the next  speaker,  I wish to inform the Senate that the Government Printer has advised that he was able to accept  Senator Webster's  table for incorporation in Hansard. 
The amendment proposed by  Senator Lawrie  does not affect the operative measures of this Bill but it does put the objectives in clearer and better perspective. The proposed title 'Cities and Regional Development Commission' indicates to everybody the width and breadth of the Commission's objectives and ite future activities. This is more so than the rather hemmed-in title of 'Cities Commission'. The Liberal Party section of the Opposition supports this amendment. 
I  ask the Minister for the Media whether it is a fact that Australia's 30 country commercial television stations will have to pay a much greater proportion of the cost of making Australian television shows under the Government's new points system. Has consideration been given to the capacity of those stations to meet heavily increased costs? Will the Government ensure that listeners in rural areas are not denied television services because of unduly heavy financial demands made on country television stations? 
 We are now considering a Bill to amend the National Urban and Regional Development Authority Act 1972. In effect it will replace the measure passed last year by the Liberal and Country Party Government which established a statutory authority known as the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. This Authority was empowered to investigate, plan and advise the Government on the needs of cities and on a proper and purposeful approach to the matter of decentralisation and regional development. It comprised a commissioner and a deputy commissioner and had an advisory committee of 11 members. The. amending Bill we are now considering changes the name and the composition of the Authority. The change of name is achieved by clause 3 of the Bill which seeks to substitute the words 'Cities Commission' for the words 'National Urban and Regional Development Authority'. In the recomposition of the Authority there will be a full-time chairman of commissioners and 4 part-time commissioners comprising the secretary of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and 3 other persons. 
The Liberal Opposition will not oppose the general provisions, but it deplores the fact that the Government has seen fit to narrow the description of the Authority as it concerns the original national connotation of the Authority and its proposed activities. The Government is carrying on from the initiatives of the former Administration. The National Urban and Regional Development Authority was a creature of the Liberal and Country Party Government. For the first time in our history the national Parliament had legislative provision for direct involvement in the development of cities, both old established and new cities, and in the planning of regional development extending beyond the territories immediately within the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. The new responsibilities undertaken were an acknowledgement of the awareness of the real problems of a mounting population concentration in our major cities, problems which had a real bearing on the quality of life of the Australian people, problems of pollution of the air and waterways, congestion of roads and highways and lack of open space, of ever increasing difficulties and costs involved in maintaining essential services in cities of high population densities. In recent years there has been a growing awareness of the need for careful planning of centres of population and for real consideration to be given to the protection of our environment. 
A few years ago when  Senator Henty  proposed in this place that Senate, committees of inquiry should be set up to inquire into and report upon the problems of the pollution of air and water I thought that the proposals at that stage were somewhat premature. At that time the general feeling was that although the older countries had major problems arising from density of population and heavy industrialisation, we with our concept of wide open spaces did not have the problems that existed elsewhere. But how wrong this proved to be when inquiries into our environment were really made. As a member of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution I was astounded to find that the concentration of carbon monoxide in the city of Sydney at certain peak hours of traffic and in certain streets which had high buildings forming a canyon, as it were, was as high as 80 parts per million. This is a very high reading indeed and is approaching a dangerous level. Of course this occurred only on certain occasions and under certain atmospheric conditions in streets which had  a  very high traffic density. 
The Bill is further evidence of the realisation that action must be taken to improve the environmental conditions in certain areas, to relieve undue pressure of population densities and to plan, on a national basis, regional development. In respect of the provisions of the Bill, I regret greatly that the Government has decided to change the name of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to the Cities Commission. It immediately gives a connotation of a metropolis interest as distinct from the interest of the country as a whole. The title 'National Urban and Regional' embraces the whole and ensures no misinterpretation in the public mind. It indicates a national concept as distinct from a localised major capital city interest. The changes in the composition of the Authority are administrative. 1 hope that they will achieve the objectives set out in the second reading speech o the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  and, overall, will meet the expectations envisaged in the original Act. 
I believe that regional growth centres must have a sound economic base because, pretty well without exception, all instances of successful decentralisation or regional development have as a background a history of natural resources, locational advantages in respect of transport or some other element of economic assistance or incentive. The natural resources vary widely. In the south-east of my State of South Australia regional development is based largely on the pine forests in the Mount Gambier area. The timber mills provide an industry which is based on the pine plantations. Other industry derives from that original provision of a resource on which to work. In the River Murray areas the canning of fruit is an industry in itself, but with it are the ancillary industries of carton manufacture, container manufacture and so on. So there is an ability to have regional development which is based on a firm and sound economic base. Whyalla in South Australia has a background of supply of raw material for the manufacture of steel. In all these instances there has been purposeful and good regional development for decentralisation. I stress that each instance of success has had a real background of real assistance because there was a natural resource present in that area. 
I feel that there is a major danger in endeavouring to have a population build-up in a regional development proposal if there is not the sort of background which will give viability to the area arising from work availability to the people who will live in the given area. Co-operation by industry will always be a vital factor in all regional development. Commercial considerations are of paramount importance. Policies which will give industry sufficient incentive to locate in any proposed growth area must be adopted. Decentralisation of industry in the past has suffered the disability of increased expenditures in areas such as freights, telephone services, equipment maintenance and external consulting requirements. These have been some of the disincentives. The incentives must be not only equalising in themselves but must add something beyond an equality to be achieved. 
I note that the May edition, bulletin No. 241, of the Australian Industries Development Association contains an excellent article on regional development and industry abroad. It is stated that Canada has problems very similar to ours. Many of our conditions as background to regional development run on parallel lines. I think that we have a lot to learn from Canada and from its attitude towards assisting industry to provide a sound and viable background to regional development. For instance, Canada has a 3-tiered cash grant scheme as the base for industrial incentive. It has a primary development incentive for the establishment, expansion or modernisation of buildings, machinery and other equipment used in existing manufacturing operations, subject to a minimum capital outlay of $30,000 and applicant willingness to provide 20 per cent equity. The size of the grant given is limited to 20 per cent of the approved capital addition, subject to a $6m maximum. The secondary incentives are described very fully in this excellent article. The publication refers to what is being done and what has been done in Great Britain and France. 
Without exception, these countries which have seen the need for regional development have been prepared to ensure a background which has an ability and a capacity to make the clock tick so far as the successful establishment of growth centres is concerned. I believe that in the past we, as a nation, have been prone to give not much more than lip service to matters as important as decentralisation. I hope that the new awareness of the need for a better environment in which to live and for an avoidance of overconcentrations of population will continue. I hope that the Bill will be the means of achieving great betterment for the people of Australia generally. I commend the Bill which had its initiatives in the previous Administration. The Liberal Party Opposition will not oppose the general provisions of the Bill. 
The desire on the part of the Liberal Party Opposition in this matter was to give a clearer indication of the activities and objectives of the Commission. The name 'Cities Commission' had the connotation of emphasis towards metropolis as distinct from a broader viewing of the whole matter of developing population centres. For that reason we deplored the suggestion that the title be changed to 'Cities Commission' from National Urban and Regional Development Authority'. However, we have expressed our concern and disappointment at this narrowing of meaning. We believe that the title 'Cities Commission' is unacceptable but we will not oppose further the idea of the change of title. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it a fact that the Minister has promised to proceed to Kangaroo Island to discuss with soldier settlers there problems peculiar to them and for which financial provision for betterment has been made by the Parliament? I point out that his presence on Kangaroo Island would provide an opportunity for a court of a type badly needed by settlers at present and in keeping with the dignity of the island. When does the Minister propose to visit the island? 
I direct this question to the Minister who represents the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On 16 May I asked the Minister a question concerning the election by Aborigines of 80 representatives from all States and the Northern Territory to the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee. Has the Minister received a reply to this question? If not, will he obtain one for when the House resumes next Tuesday? 
 I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Prime Minister. At the highly successful opening of the magnificent Festival Hall in Adelaide on Saturday night, the Prime Minister stated that it would be the Government's concern that theatrical productions would not be priced outside the financial ability of the people whom the Government represents. In view of the inordinately high entrance charges indicated ahead for some presentations at the Sydney Opera House, will the Minister indicate by what means the Government expects to ensure that theatre productions will not be priced out of the range of the people whom the Government represents? 

 - Mr President, 1 direct a question to you. Who is reponsible for determining the location in King's Hall of new paintings of parliamentary dignitaries? Why is the portrait of yourself,  Sir, hung  at the far end of King's Hall in an area of comparatively poor lighting, whereas other new paintings invariably have pride of place at or near the entrance to the Hall? 
 It is an excellent painting, replete with red carnation. Will consideration be given by the appropriate authorities to redressing this obvious breach of an accepted and desirable practice? 
This place cannot work without the application of plain commonsense as distinct from adherence to Standing Orders in their purity. My suggestion is that the 8 minutes of his time used by  Senator McManus  be taken now by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop).  This is a commonsense solution to the whole problem.I am in favour of this being done right now. 
I direct this question to the Minister for the Media. I refer to the Minister's recent statement that he would do -   . . everything in my power  to  remove laws which restrict freedom of the media. The media should be free from censorship. 
I ask the Minister what action he has in mind which he can take to give effect to this statement. What powers reside with the Commonwealth Government to remove grounds for court action against libellous references by the media? How does he envisage ensuring a reasonable balance between the rights of the individual and the rights of free discussion? 
This Bill seeks to amend the Wool Industry Act 1972, which is the major Act, by providing $22m for the financing of wool research and promotion and to meet the costs of administering the marketing functions of the Australian Wool Corporation. There is an increase in the levy from the current rate of 1 per cent on all woe! shorn and 0.4 per cent on all woo] sold at auction to the rate of 2.4 per cent on all wool shorn and sold whether at auction or otherwise. Out of an overall expenditure of $43. 8m for the coming financial year, $22m will be provided by the Government and the balance by the woolgrowers themselves. The amount of $22m is $llm less than what the previous Government said it would commit for these purposes. In my opinion this is bad, and I regret it. 
The measures also apply for only one year which represents a frustration to the wool industry generally. I should like to see, as has occurred in the past, a triennium of planning and provision of moneys so that the industry knows for itself just where it is heading. The industry is not one that can be turned off and on so far as planning is concerned. Hitherto, this system of triennium provision has existed and I regret this intrusion of a new attitude whereby provision is to be made for only one year. The previous system has been jettisoned and I find this objectionable and not in th: best interests of the industry. The previous Government had entered into a 3-year commitment with the Australian Wool Industry Conference for a total sum of $113m. The present Government has imposed an increase of well nigh 70 per cent in the levy on wool growers without, I understand, any consultation with the industry. As I have said, the Government's contribution has been reduced by $llm, which is about one-third of the total provision which the previous Government had envisaged. 
It is true that the wool industry now is far better off than it has been for many years, but it must not be forgotten that wool growers have gone through a gruelling time of adversity. Most of them have to overcome accumulated losses which are reflected in indebtedness to banks, stock firms and governmental authorities. In a report released by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics at the end of last month it was revealed that demand for rural reconstruction moneys had eased but up the end of last June sheep and livestock cereal enterprises accounted for no less than 66 per cent of all applications for debt reconstruction and farm buildup loans. In the first 12 months of the operation of the rural reconstruction scheme the applicants who were considered for loans had a total debt of $4.1 Om, which is about 50 per cent of the estimated gross debt of the rural sector. When it is considered that about $2,700m constituted the total debt for the rural sector it seems to me that the Government decision to pull back $llm from the Government contribution to the wool industry's research and promotion activities is a most precipitant reaction to a new buoyancy in the industry. In my opinion it is too precipitant and most unwarranted in this first flush of better conditions. There is no guarantee that the present state of buoyancy will continue for any length of time. 
The Liberal Party does not oppose this legislation. I have expressed concern and regret at the attitude of the present Government in having reduced the amount of money to be made available to the industry and its decision to provide money for a .period of one year whereas in the past the industry was in a far better position in that it had a 3-year plan to work to. We will not oppose this Bill. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy aware that in the early history of South Australia the copper mines at Kapunda, situated 50 miles north of Adelaide, were of major significance in the State's economy? Is he aware that there is now a magnificent opportunity for the Kapunda copper mines to be re-opened, provided the Government approves of a joint venture between local interests and a large United States mining group, Utah Development? Will the Minister urge on the 
Minister for Minerals and Energy that such approval should be given in the interests of decentralisation and the economy of South Australia? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the severe financial hardship being experienced by growers of canning fruits in the Riverland district of South Australia because of the inability of canneries to pay the price set for fruit for 1971-72? As a substantial short payment to growers has arisen from the realignment of currencies and the high proportion of export sales involved in the disposal of canned fruits, will the Minister give consideration to assisting canners to meet the adverse effects of the currency situation and so assist both growers and the canning organisations? 
 Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the immediate and serious harm done to the citrus growing and processing industries in the Riverland area of South Australia and in other areas of Australia, and to the apple and pear industry, by the abolition, as from this morning, of the sales tax exemption in respect of aerated waters which incorporate 5 per cent or more of pure fruit juice? Is he aware that the exemption created and, indeed, assured demand for fruit juices by aerated water manufacturers throughout Australia and provided a vitally important outlet for fruit production? As cheaper synthetic materials will now replace genuine fruit juices, what action does this Government propose to take to meet the loss of markets and income by the fruit growers and their co-operative processing organisations? 
asked the Minister repre senting the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the cost to industry of plant and machinery installed to reduce air pollution, in most instances, a non-productive outlay, adding to the cost of goods and therefore to the inflationary spiral. 
Does the Government intend to give effect to the recommendation of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution in respect to provision of greater investment and depreciation allowances on air pollution control equipment. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The Treasurer has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
No. Unless one is prepared, as I am not, to assume that cleaner air is not a 'good', the prevention or reduction of air pollution is no more nonconductive than the production of goods and services that can be bought and sold for cash over the counter. 
The Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution did not recommend certain tax concessions, as the honourable senator suggests, but only that consideration be given to such concessions. In fact, under the present law, the full cost to business enterprises of installing, operating and maintaining air pollution control equipment would normally be allowable either as business outgoings or by way of depreciation allowances. The proposition that extraordinary financial relief should be provided, at the general taxpayer's expense, to those incurring these expenditures is inconsistent with the 'polluter pays principle' which the Government endorses and which, briefly stated, holds that the real cost of pollution should be borne by the producers and users of those goods and services whose production or consumption brought about the pollution. 
I support completely all  Senator Wright  has just said. He has approached this matter with the realism and responsibility that 1 see as being necessary in a modern society. 
In my opinion it is quite ridiculous that support is not to be given, even if it is only moral support, to our police forces. By the work they are doing they are providing for the very basis of society. Our police officers are open to the greatest dangers with which any human being can be faced. To have removed from the statute book provisions which at least put fear in the minds of people who are likely to take premeditated action against the law and against other people is ridiculous. In those cases, as with the offence of treason, there is usually no killing of a person in the heat of the moment because of great provocation. It is a cold blooded, premeditated act which is against the law of the country. Wardens in prisons perform a great service to society in the work that they do. They are all the time in association with people who, having committed a great felony, have no greater punishment to suffer in this life than that which has been imposed upon them up to that point. Some of these people can kill others without any thought in their mind that their penalty will be increased if they do. 
Nothing at all. In my opinion we have to give our fullest support to the police forces of Australia, be they in the States or the Commonwealth. They are the ones who take on the responsibility of performing duties without which we just could not have an orderly and decent society. I support completely this amendment. I congratulate  Senator Wright  for the very able manner in which, as usual, he presented his case. He presented it forthrightly, with commonsense and with a great degree of responsibility. 
 I am deeply disturbed at the suggestion that the decision to proceed with the Dartmouth Dam should be deferred pending a full economic evaluation. This is just the last straw. 
Yes, certainly. 
O.K. If this is not authenticated there is certainly a very great rumour about this matter. If it is true then there is an attack on South Australia of a nature which I have not experienced in my years here. 
The honourable senator can speak afterwards. South Australia is fundamentally dependent for its water supply on one major waterway and that is the River Murray. In every instance we have conserved water to the utmost capacity in all other available waterways. The future of South 
Australia is now at stake if there should  be  a deferment with these horrible words: 'Pending a full economic evaluation.' 
 I gave it to the honourable senator a moment ago. It was a Press report. 
 This goes back to the Coombs' recommendations, I understand. That is the authority at base. It is further amplified in a Press report in South Australia today but, it goes back to the Coombs' report. If there is any foundation to this report then this is the worst news that I have heard as long as I have been in this place. 
 Just a minute. The Coombs' task force assessment of the Budget expenditure included  a  reference to the continuation of Dartmouth Dam - 'Is it necessary?' Must it go forward?' Any doubt at all which is expressed in regard to the building of Dartmouth is in my opinion absolutely impossible. We in South Australia sought to have a major water conservation area at Chowilla because in times of drought we are dependent for our entire needs on a certain amount of water coming down the Murray, apart from our reservoirs. We felt that there was so much water going out to sea in times of good rainfall that it ought to  be  impounded in a major catchment area, and we chose Chowilla as the location for this. When I came to this Parliament in 1967 the first matter to which I made reference in this place was to the utter urgency of the establishment of a major water conservation scheme on the Murray if South Australia  was  to go ahead. It needed water not only in its agricultural areas and irrigation areas but as far away as Whyalla, Port Pirie, Port Augusta, Woomera and the areas down in the south-east of South Australia. The whole State depends for its future well-being on water supply obtained from these conservation projects. 
We forwent Chowilla as the location for the scheme because Victoria needed a flow past Mildura, which would have been impossible had water been impounded at Chowilla which is below Mildura. Cusec flow past Mildura was very important to the Victorian Government, and we ran into great difficulty with the attitude of other States  as  to where a major catchment area should be located. South Australia forwent its request to have Chowilla as the site in order to give Dartmouth No. 1 priority which would assist New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia. But the agreement was that Dartmouth be the first catchment followed by a further catchment so that we in South Australia would have water impounded for use in times of drought. 
One can make all the preparations in the world for economic development in relation to many aspects of economic life but one cannot base that development on a problematical water supply. There has to be an assurance that through thick and thin water will be there. We conceded that the Dartmouth project should be proceeded with first but the details of Dartmouth had to be agreed to. I said myself at the time: 'Very well but for heavens sake get going; do not delay any longer because we in South Australia will be in real trouble unless water is impounded somewhere down the line. But if it is the desire of Victoria, New South Wales and the Federal Government to proceed with Dartmouth first, we will defer our great claim in relation to Chowilla until later, but get cracking'. This was agreed to. 
This is referred to in the report of  Dr Coombes,  and from that will flow- 
 If there is no basis to the rumour I will be very happy. I would be amazed if  Senator Bishop  and my other South Australian colleagues in the Labor Party were not up in arms about any proposal for the deferment of construction of the Dartmouth Dam. There is more in this than appears on the surface, and our whole purpose  in raising  it tonight is to indicate to the Senate the deep concern of South Australians at the suggestion that there be a deferment or postponement in the construction of the Dartmouth Dam. It is because we are so deeply concerned that we rise to speak at this time in the adjournment debate. We realise the great importance of a water supply to the whole of South Australia. I will say no more than that at this stage. But ifthis suggestion be only rumour I will be very happy. If it is factual it is the duty of every South Australian in this place to do everything in his or her power to ensure- 
 As a matter of fact, it is a national matter. South Australia, which is part of Australia, will be in jeopardy if this suggestion is carried into effect and we are denied our entitlement to the basic commodity of water from which can flow the whole well being or the disruption of the whole State. 

 Senator Dame NANCY BUTTFIELD (South Australia) (10.45)-I rise because I, too, am extremely concerned about this issue. We have heard Opposition senators cry out: Where is the evidence?' To begin with the first of the evidence came out in the Coombs task force report which recommended that the Government should delay proceeding with this project pending a full economic evaluation. On that point I would like to say that I was a member of what was the Government Members National Development Committee, and that Committee spent many hours examining an evaluation that was put forward by the experts to the former Department of National Development. Those experts explained to us exactly how it was more beneficial to build the Dartmouth Dam than the Chowilla Dam. They had done extensive salinity tests and they had done extensive tests in all directions to ascertain the feasibility of building the Dartmouth Dam. We were convinced that that was the better project and therefore we dropped the idea ofbuilding the Chowilla Dam in favour of what the Department of National Development recommended to the Government of the day. 
The Government senators have been asking also what evidence we have at this moment that has disturbed us. We have as evidence the letter that was read in the House of 
Assembly in South Australia today. I refer to the letter from the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Premier of South Australia. It reads: 
As you will know the Government has sought advice from our task force under  Dr Coombs  of ways in which expenditure  on existing projects or programs might be curtailed in order to enable the Government's due initiatives to proceed more rapidly. One of the recommendations of the task force which has been endorsed by the Government is that if possible the rate of construction of the Dartmouth Dam might be slowed down. We have in mind that water requirements might be affected by the result of the current study to measure the impact of salinity in the River Murray depending on short term projects and as there might also be some scope for the temporary allocation of water from the Blowering storage . . . 
That is not the full text of the letter; it goes on. I do not have any more of it but that is enough to disturb us. 1 would like to go on to comment on some of the other points which have arisen out of the Coombs task force report. It is drawing a red herring over South Australia's need for this extra water. The report says that significant changes have come about since the building of the Dartmouth Dam was recommended, and the significant changes all relate to the difficulties of the irrigation areas in selling their products. Of course, these difficulties have been added to by the recent Budget which has imposed sales tax on fruit juices. But this is not the pertinent point in relation to South Australia. Certainly the irrigation areas have their problems. They need water. We must have enough water in the river at the lower end. It should not be forgotten that we are at the lower end of the river and we take our water after New South Wales and Victoria have taken their shares. We get what is left. As  Senator Laucke  has said, if there is not enough water in the river the salinity problem mounts up lower down. The whole viability of the State of South Australia is dependent on the development of secondary industry in and around Adelaide. If we cannot get sufficient water to come down the river so that it is clear when it is delivered to industry and to the people who service those industries we cannot develop our State. This nonsense coming from Government senators is ridiculous. To me it proves that other States do not want to see South Australia developed; they want to crush us out of existence. 
Then for goodness sake stop going on about this. We need water. I did not rise to criticise any particular government; all I am saying is: Get this water into South Australia and get it there quickly. The Government should stop throwing in red herrings by referring to changes in the position of people in irrigation areas which it is claimed is aggravated by the operations of the European Economic Community. That is not the point of this argument. That is a red herring thrown in by the Coombs task force which obviously has not studied the problems in South Australia. Perhaps it has not even studied the other problems on which it has made recommendations to the Government but has simply produced a report quickly. It will throw the whole of the economy of Australia into jeopardy in many areas. This disastrous proposal which has come to our knowledge today will play its part in that. 
I refer to Part III- the Council of the School. I would like the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  to elucidate what is to be regarded as a defect or irregularity' as shown in clause 8 (6). That sub-clause states: 
The appointment or election of a member is noi invalid by reason only of a defect or irregularity in connection with his appointment or election. 
 I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister for Customs and Excise. When in Opposition the present Government asserted that if elected to the treasury bench it would promptly remove the then 25c per gallon excise applicable to wine and would not impose any alternative form of taxation on the wine industry. I ask the Minister: How can the Government reconcile the undertaking given then with its present action in removing the duty differential favourable to brandy, and the further imposition of a tax which add in total the disastrous impost of approximately S5 per gallon on brandy which is a product vital to the well being of the grape growing and wine making industry? Does he realise the severity of the increase and the crippling effect it must have on the industry? Will immediate consideration be given to rectifying the position and honouring an election promise which was given? 
Has consideration been given by the Minister for the Media to a major television survey conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission's audience research department which indicates a considerable decline in television viewing? To what does the Minister ascribe the decline? Would he accept that undue governmental interference could be a factor? Should not public demand and reaction finally determine the type and quality of television programs? 
 The Liberal Party Opposition does not oppose the Film and Television School Bill. It welcomes the legislation. This Bill stems from initiatives taken by the LiberalCountry Party Government in 1969. Its purpose, as was stated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  is to establish a Film and Television School as a statutory body with the status of a college of advanced education. An Interim Council for a National Film and Television Training School was appointed in 1969, to advise the Government on the steps necessary to bring the School into being.  Mr Peter  Coleman, MLA, was appointed  chairman  and the members were  Mr Phillip  A. Adams,  Mrs Dudley  Erwin,  Mr Stanley  G. Hawes, M.B.E.,  Mr Barry  O. Jones,  Sir Robert  Madgwick, O.B.E., and  Sir Ian  Wark, C.M.G., C.B.E. The first report was presented in November 1970, the second report was presented in March 1971 and the third and final report was presented in February 1972. These reports indicated firm support for the School from commercial film producers, the Federation of Commercial Television Stations, the Australian Broadcasting -Commission, the Commonwealth Film Unit, guilds and unions, and educational institutions. The legislation is based fundamentally on the recommendations in these reports. 
The venue for the proposed School is on the campus of Macquarie University but it will have no formal links with that institution. The foundation director is to be Professor Jerzy Toeplitz, the visiting Professor of film at La Trobe University. I understand that he has taken up his duties this month. The intentions of the School are very good. It is to provide a wide range of training and experience for prospective creative workers in film and television. It is to be a centre for open school activities, refresher courses, seminars and workshops for people involved in the film and television industry. Graduates from the School will find employment in private film and television productions and in Government production agencies. There also is a demand in universities, colleges of advanced education and teachers and technical colleges for people qualified in areas of film and television production and education. 
In every respect this is commendable legislation. It provides a facility which will be of undoubted value to film and television interests in Australia, and promotion of the arts in general. We welcome and support the Bill. In a spirit of co-operation in order that legislation which does not involve controversy may be passed with expedition, I indicate that the Liberal Party supports the Bill, andi has not taken the usual procedure of taking the adjournment of the debate immediately after the Minister had delivered the Second Reading Speech. 
 I ask the Minister for the Media: Is it the Government's intention to set up an independent television authority based on the British system, the idea of which has been publicly supported by his colleague,  Senator James  McClelland, who is  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Education, Science and the Arts which is inquiring into television? Has the Minister noted that  Senator James  McClelland conceded that such an authority would mean the abolition of commercial channels in their present form? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, concerns the reopening of the Kapunda copper mines in South Australia. At question time yesterday the Minister informed me that consideration of a proposal for a joint venture between local interests and the United States group, Utah Development, for the reopening of the Kapunda copper mines had been deferred by the Committee on Foreign Takeovers pending review of policy on ownership and control of Australian mineral resources. Can the Minister indicate when this policy review is expected to be completed and a reply given to the Kapunda interests? 
 My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the representative of the Prime Minister in this place. In view of the widespread and mounting concern and criticism of the Council for the Arts over alleged undue extravagances in administrative expenditures and the arbitrary allocation of funds, will the Government give consideration to setting up a task force composed of business efficiency consultants to inquire into and report to the Parliament on this matter? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry given consideration to the plight of navel orange growers whose market with the fruit juice processors has been destroyed through the abolition of the exemption of sales tax on aerated waters containing 5 per cent of fruit juice? Is the Minister aware that it is the assessment of the Berri Fruit juice Co-operative in South Australia that inundation of the case market by fruit hitherto crushed into juice will so depress the case market as to cause an overall loss of approximately S2m to the growers. In view of the seriousness of the matter, will the Minister facilitate an early conference with representatives of the citrus industry in South Australia to discuss the full implications of the sales tax decision? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. It follows a question asked a little earlier by  Senator Young  concerning the effect on the canned fruit industry of the latest revaluation. Does the Government accept that this industry, which depends heavily upon export markets, will be adversely affected by the revaluation? If so, will the Government act promptly to provide compensation for this and previous currency realignments and not allow the matter to drag on interminably, as has applied up to the present time, which has placed the industry in an untenable position? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs indicate the progress made in each State in the transfer, as sought by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Bryant,  of responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination from the State Aboriginal affairs departments to the Commonwealth? What State, if any, has transferred its reponsibilities to the Commonwealth? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that an expenditure of $500,000 is being undertaken or contemplated by the Australian Council for the Arts to provide theatre venues for the screening of films which normal censorship would debar from projection in theatres to which the general public has access? On whose authority would such expenditure be undertaken? Do all outlays by the Council for the Arts require the approval of the Prime Minister? Are they subject to the scrutiny of the Auditor-General? Will they be presented in detail to the Parliament? Finally, on whose decision was $12,000 provided for the Nimbin pop festival? 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Media. Does the Government intend to take any action to control film distribution and exhibition outlets? Further, on the premise that where there ls smoke there is fire, and in order to give some assurance to television interests as to where they stand in the matter which is vital to them, can the Minister advise the Senate whether or not the Government plans to assume control of commercial television through the establishment of a governmentally directed independent broadcasting authority? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Works. In view of the vital importance to the continuing development of South Australia that no impediment be placed on the expeditious construction of Dartmouth Dam, can the Minister give an assurance that the Commonwealth Government will not pursue its suggestion made to the participating States that work on the dam be slowed down or deferred? 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Is it not a fact that the financial predicament in which the South Australian cooperative canning fruit industry finds itself is directly attributable to currency realignments? This being so, will urgent consideration be given to helping this export industry to meet commitments which it has been unable to meet through factors which are beyond its control and which have led to its present position? 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the present Government, when in opposition, assert that if elected to the Treasury benches it would promptly remove the existing 25 cents per gallon excise charge applicable to wine, and would not impose any alternative form of taxation on the wine industry. 
How can the Government reconcile this undertaking with its action in removing the duty differential favouring brandy and the imposition of a tax adding approximately $5 per gallon on brandy, a product vital to the well-being of the grape-growing and wine-making industries. 
Does the Minister realise the severity of the increase and the crippling effect it will have on the industry; if so, will immediate consideration be given to rectifying the position and honouring the election promise. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Repatriation. Is it a fact that on the basis of present repatriation benefits proposals the 100 per cent general rate pensioner who has been in receipt of a special compensation allowance benefit will receive no actual monetary benefit before the next Budget? Is this anomaly receiving consideration? Will action be taken to rectify the position? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In replying to a question asked of him earlier by  Senator Donald  Cameron the Minister referred to the lemon industry's need for urgent assistance and indicated that certain relief measures would be taken. Does the Minister regard them as being anything like a satisfactory solution to the long term problem? Will they not be only a short term palliative? As the huge stocks of citrus, apple and pear juice concentrates are now being held by processors because there is no market for them with aerated water manufacturers as a result of the destruction of incentive due to the abolition of the sales tax exemption on those beverages which contain not less than 5 per cent of fruit juice concentrate, will the Minister move to have the ill-conceived abolition of the sales tax exemption set aside as the only really effective answer to the whole problem of those industries? 
I direct my question to the Minister for the Media. In view of the greatly increased involvement of the Government in all matters pertaining to the media and the dangers inherent in any possible over-participation, and in view of the call by the Australian Broadcasting Commission for changes to the Broadcasting and Television Act in order to strengthen its independence, does the Government intend taking such action as would ensure the greater independence sought by the Commission? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs concerns the matter which was raised by  Senator McManus,  that is, the enforced displacement of a 7-year-old Aboriginal girl from the environment in which she was raised by foster parents in Darwin to a life completely foreign to her. Is it a fact that the foster parents,  Mr and Mrs Athol  Brown, appealed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to intervene? Did the Minister investigate the matter as requested? Did he authorise the Department to take forceably the child from her foster parents? If so, in the name of humanity, why did he give such authorisation? 
We have just heard a lot of plain common sense from  Senator Lillico  who made reference in his concluding remarks to the fact that vendors of petrol in the Australian Capital Territory have not been allowed to impose the 5c a gallon increase on petrol outlined in the Budget. At that point  Senator Mulvihill  made a very significant and revealing interjection. He said: They can live off their fat'. 
Exactly-off their economic fat. This underlines the terrific dangers of having price control in the hands of people who have said without any consideration of the facts that the price of petrol will not be increased in the Australian Capital Territory. On the other hand, we have a situation where South Australia has been allowed to increase the price of petrol by 5c in spite of the fact that that State has price control and can determine the retail price at which petrol will be sold in Australia. But in the Austraiian Capital Territory, which is under the arbitrary dictation of one person and where an inquiry has not been undertaken to look into the background of whether the price should be varied or not, the oil companies have been told to 'live off their economic fat'. This is most certainly a frightening attitude and it illustrates what would happen if a bureaucracy was in charge, able to murder industry and incentive and to impose a most unfair situation on the economy and its components generally. 
The urgency with which this Bill was introduced clearly shows that the Government has suddenly realised that inflation is out of hand. Even though the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has said that price control on its own is not the answer and the cure, there has to be found quickly some sop to the public to show in a very unreal, insincere and hyprocritical way that the Government cares about the inflationary situation. As price control may be a popular word in the minds of many people the Government has put this forward as a cure for the whole bad situation. But price control on its own cannot have any real effect on prices. It is totally ineffective in holding down prices for any length of time. It is completely artificial as a method of determining prices because in the final analysis all price control does is to put the seal of approval by a arbitrator on the validity of a price increase claim. It is the last and final operation after a long time of cost assessment to find someone who says: 'Right, that shall be the level of prices'. 
The basic cost of any article or service determines its price. When we come at the end of the line to impose a certain level, all the forces behind that moment of determination have their effect and all price control does is to defer maybe momentarily or temporarily the increase and then give it the blessing of government approval. Then the maximum price allowed by price control authorities becomes the minimum. This is what happens in reality. It has happened whenever price control has been imposed. The moment we have the maximum price allowed becoming the minimum lethargy is generated both in the customer's attitude and in the provider's attitude. Very soon we find in practice that price control becomes profit control and people say: Why shall I run my business efficiently because if I show I have made a good return applications for price increases are rejected on the basis that I am doing pretty well now'. So business tends to slumber and to be slothful and prices continue to rise. Again the stamp of approval is placed on the increases by government and all in the garden is lovely. Price control just is not something which has any real impact or value so far as structures of costs and prices generally are concerned. 
I would like to ask and then answer this little question: What has led to the furore and clamour for price control? I have no hesitation in saying that it is directly attributable to mismanagement of the economy by the present Government since it assumed office last December. At that timethis is an irrefutable fact- inflation was running at 4.6 per cent. 
Do not think for a moment,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that we are not deeply concerned about the employment of every person who is employable and desires to work. The fact is that for the good of the whole community it is vitally necessary that savings bank deposits and superannuation pensions retain their value. We can do much more harm by allowing the economy to run away than by applying measures of good demand management. 
No, I would not agree with that for one moment. 
-We did not do it. The facts are that when we were in government money was buying much more than it buys now. I regard the present rate of inflation of 13.2 per cent as a reflection on the budgetary measures of this Government. How irresponsible it is in a time of very buoyant conditions and an overheated economy for the Government to introduce a Budget which provides for a deficit. The Government has budgeted for an increase in Governmental outlays to $12,618m, an increase of 18.9 per cent over the amount of expenditure for last year. So the Government has added an extra $ 1,938m to the inflationary pressures. But it still is not satisfied and is pumping more and more into the economy to worsen the situation which we now experience generally. Let us examine what is happening in the Australian Capital Territory. An article in today 's ' Canberra Times' indicated that government house construction costs were up by 4.8 per cent. It states: 
The cost of building government houses in Canberra has risen by about 4.8 per cent in the past 1 1 weeks, representing an increase of almost $600 for a 3-bedroom house. 
Cheaper houses was one of the main slogans of the Australian Labor Party at the time of the last election. The article continues: 
It brings the increase in the past 14.S months in the cost of building a standard 3-bedroom government house in Canberra to $2,67 1 , or more than 26 percent. 
The latest increase follows a 20 per cent rise in cost of building government houses over the previous year. 
So there has been a 46 per cent increase in a little over a year. That is a frightful escalation. 
Yes. After the damage has been done insofar as costs are concerned it is impossible to do other than put the seal of approval on increases. One must prevent from arising in the first place the situation which has been allowed to arise here. It is very salutory to note the National Capital Development Commission's comment in respect to the large increase in the cost of building government houses in Canberra. I wish to quote again from the same article. It states: 
The National Capital Development Commission, the controlling authority for construction of the houses, blames the latest increase solely on an ' adjustment ' of award wages. 
I believe in the highest wages that industry can afford to pay being paid. I am not by any means a low wages man. But, unless there is some correlation between productivity and earnings, we will continue to be faced with this deadly incidence of inflation. Inflation hurts the very people whom it is sought in the first instance to assist by the provision of better conditions. That is the tragedy of the whole situation. I would like to pose a further question. I ask: What is basic to a sound monetary position? There simply has to be realisation of the fact that once one gets away from the relationship to which I have just referred of productivity and costs nobody in the world will be able to hold back the inflationary spiral. It is an absolute economic and business fact that that is so. 
It is far better stringently to impose fiscal provisions in the first instance and to have a continual improvement in the economy. It is possible that one will not be able to avoid some degree of inflation in the process. But one can by sound management of the economy- this was shown during the last 23 years- control the economy despite the economic influences being exerted upon it by overseas situations of higher prices and inflationary conditions. One can so organise, as has been proven, the holding of a steady encompassable rate of inflation. In my opinion that that is not being sought to be done by the Government. The Government reminds me of a young fellow who inherits from his family a very sound business proposition which for years has been properly conducted, which has reserves behind it and which is a viable proposition and who says: 'Now that I have it I will begin to spend' and ignores the bases from which wealth has been generated in that business. I am fearful that we are forgetting at the present time in Australia that we have to make our money before we can spend it. We have to nurture and look after those sources of national wealth which we have. 
I have been disturbed by the rejection of the idea that we need overseas participation in our development.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  where would your State of Western Australia be in respect to its overall economic well-being but for the many skills and know-how which were brought to it from outside for the development of its iron ore deposits? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  I assume that that is just a rhetorical question and that you do not expect me to answer it,  Senator Laucke? 
I certainly do not. I am giving it as an example of the need for overseas capital to assist us in our development. I was very pleased to see  Sir Alan  Westerman 's reference in an article in the 'Australian Financial Review' a couple of days ago to the point that there is a big future for the participation of overseas capital in Australia's development. 
As I have said, price control is not in itself the answer to the present rate of inflation. There is a need for all political parties and the whole of the nation to co-operate in overcoming it. It should be borne in mind that we are now in a real state of emergency because of the high inflation rate in the economy. It is therefore essential that policies be determined urgently on a national level in cooperation with the States. Something has to be done quickly. There should not be a deferment of action when there is at hand so much facility for- if properly pursued- the attacking of the problem and the overcoming of the increasing menace of inflation. I refer to the offers which have been made by those States which are led by Liberal and Country Party governments to cede certain powers temporarily to the Commonwealth Government- I understand that the Labor governed States have also expressed their preparedness to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government- provided an incomes and prices control policy is adopted. It could be operative within a very short period of time pending a far more definite investigation and probing to find ways and means of getting out of our present adverse financial and economical position. We could have a period in which to work out these policies collectively in a spirit of national cooperation between the States and the Commonwealth. I feel that we could achieve in that way all that is being sought to be achieved at the present time. 
That is not the case. 
-The Leader of the Liberal Party of Australia,  Mr Snedden,  has indicated in the other place the preparedness of Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland to confer with the Commonwealth for the very purpose of working out the best approach to the problem. If that is not background, I do not know what it is. And if the Labor Government States are equally prepared to get together and to work out a scheme which could be applied quickly to arrest this great, urgent problem, we would be getting somewhere. 
This is a matter for exploration and final determination by the Prime Minister asking for the conference which has been offered. I see in the Government's attitudes the increasing movement towards attracting to itself greater powers based here on Canberra, this centralist policy of the present Government. A major danger to Australia is that these centralistic policies may be pursued in a way that would not be in the overall best interests of the nation. We are a federation in Australia; we have the Commonwealth Government, now described by the Government as the Australian Government, and the State governments. We can maintain this system which has been proven through the years to be good if there be shown a preparedness to retain and promote it. But I can sense in the movements now going on in this matter a desire for centralised control in a way which would dominate the 3 basic elements- production, distribution and exchange, the financial matters of Australia- under an authority from Canberra. That I regard as something which would not allow the progress that we have made through many years to be continued. 
When we come to consider price control, it must be done from an actual noting of how it operates in other places. In South Australia where it does operate in a selective way, it has not achieved the holding down of prices- that is obvious- in many areas where control is applied. It is an unfair system because of its selectivity of certain industries and services. It is in itself tending to make industry inefficient. I cannot see any great merit in a policy which says price control is the panacea for all the evils within the economy. I will not support this Bill. I have indicated the attitude which I feel is the right one, that is by rapidly moving to co-operation with the States to obtain a comprehensive background for a short period to meet this situation. Price control on its own simply will not achieve those things which are now being hailed from the rooftops by the Government Party as the means of putting our affairs back into good condition. I oppose this Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Will the Government, in view of widespread and mounting concern and criticisms of the Australian Council for the Arts of alleged extravagance in administrative expenditures and for the arbitrary allocation of funds, give consideration to setting up a task force comprised of business efficiency consultants to inquire into and report to Parliament upon these matters. 
-I ask the AttorneyGeneral, in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister in this place, whether he is aware of the widespread dismay and the furore of criticism which have followed the announcement of the Government's purchase of a Jackson Pollock painting 'Blue Poles' for the incredibly inflated price of $1,340,000? Was this purchase made at auction or by private treaty? Was it approved by the Prime Minister? Is it the Government's intention to apply the balance of this year's National Gallery budget for art purchases to what I can only describe as irresponsible purchases or will it give real consideration to applying the money to obtaining world class Australian paintings which are now available from collections or to accepted world masters the value of which is beyond question? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the economic hardship being experienced in the Riverland districts of South Australia due to the continuing inability of the fruit canning organisations to pay growers in full for fruit delivered in the 197 1-72 season? Is it a fact that a submission for additional assistance to offset the effects on canneries of currency realignments in 1971 and 1972 prior to revaluation has been presented to the Minister by the Australian Canned Fruits Board? Has a decision yet been made in respect of this submission? If not, will the Minister pursue the matter as one of extreme urgency? Further, will consideration be given to converting to a grant the amount of $383,000 provided as a loan by the Government to South Australian canneries in December of last year, to enable acceleration of payments to growers for 1 97 1 -72 fruit? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. On whose authority did  Mrs Bryant,  wife of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, proceed to 
Maningrida in Arnhem Land to interview Nola Garanamba, the 7-year-old Aboriginal girl who was taken from her foster parents in Darwin to rejoin her natural parents in Maningrida? What costs to the taxpayer were involved? Why were experienced officers of the Department bypassed in the inquiry into this matter? Further, is a feasibility study being conducted into the economic viability of the turtle farming projects being promoted by the Department in the Torres Strait Islands? What is the total expenditure incurred so far in these projects? Who are the shareholders of the companies involved in the projectsApplied Ecology Pty Ltd, Aboriginal and Islander Pty Ltd and Islander Marketing Pty Ltd? 
There are 2 things I would like to say at this stage of the debate. We have heard many protestations with respect to the steeply increased charges which are to be imposed under this legislation. I understand. But we have not heard a word from any ministerial or Government source with respect to the general efficiency of the Post Office as an organisation. It is all very well to add continually to charges in an industry which, by the very nature of its operations, has no competition. But I think it is very ill advised that we should be considering today these steep increases before the Post Office Commission of Inquiry has completed its investigations and submitted to the Parliament a report on all aspects of the Post Office. This should be done so that we can see more clearly where inefficiencies could lie in the conduct of the whole system of postal and telecommunications operations. 
I am pleased to see the modifications that have been made with respect to certain newspapers and publications in categories A. and B. That has a big impact on the well-being of the rural areas in Australia. I appreciate that the Post Office is not an organisation which should be the means to subsidise any activity other than that which had direct application to its own affairs. But if we are to be genuine in our desires to decentralise industry in order to encourage living away from the densely populated metropolitan areas, provision must be made somehow to give greater consideration to providing telephone, postal services and telecommunications generally at a level which does not impose upon those who live in decentralised areas the burden of financial cost. The heaviest impact of these increases falls on the rural sector of the community. I am not at all happy about that situation in general. I do not think that the provision of services at the very lowest possible cost is being attacked from its proper quarters. 
I know that in a labour intensive industry such as the Post Office, it is necessary to make provision continuously for greater salary and wage requirements. But all the time we are finding that increases in charges and costs, like a dog chasing its tail, add to the inflationary propensities within the economy. This was the major point I wished to make when I rose to speak. It is a pity that we have not received the report of the Post Office Commission of Inquiry to assist us to find ways and means of achieving greater efficiency while still enabling organisations and personnel in rural areas to receive facilities at a price not prohibitive to them. As we examine the different portions of these Bills, things can be pointed out which are grossly unjust. They all stem basically from a situation of spiralling costs to which very little consideration seems to have been given overall. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether the Government intends to proceed with the ill-conceived idea of imposing a tax on beef exports as a means of lowering prices of meat on the home market. 

 - Senator Georges has raised matters of the utmost gravity. They simply cannot be allowed to rest here, for us to make up our own minds on them. The ramifications are so wide and deep that without a shadow of a doubt they call for a full and open inquiry. Indeed, the Government should appoint a royal commission to investigate the whole subject. What is involved is a vitally important aspect of accountability to Parliament for public expenditure. Tonight it has been suggested that in this instance there has been no accountability. 
With every good endeavour we have set up systems and organisations to assist the betterment of the Aboriginal community. Tonight we heard  Senator Georges  make allegations about the whole project. We would be doing a great disservice to the Aboriginal community if we allowed these allegations to go unanswered. Obviously this is not the way to assist the Aboriginal community; rather it would give Aborigines complete inferiority complexes. This would happen not through their fault but through the fault of somebody else in the background, and it should never occur. Without saying any more tonight- in the morning I will closely read  Senator Georges'  statements- I call immediately for this matter to be completely aired by means of a royal commission. Anything less than that will not satisfy the situation because departmental officers have been charged with a dereliction of their duties. There have been allegations in many directions and, above all, entrusted to this Parliament by the people of Australia is the duty to expend wisely and with complete accountability, moneys which are raised through revenue. 

 Mr President, I should say no more than that for the time being, but I do thank  Senator Georges  for having raised this matter. I asked a question on this recently, having heard as a background that there was something not too good in this matter. If that question led to the statements tonight, I am grateful in restrospect that I did ask the question. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has the expenditure of some $500,000 been undertaken or will it be undertaken, by the Australian Council for the Ans to provide cinema venues for the screening of films which normal censorship rules would debar from projection in cinemas to which the general public has access. 
On whose authority could such expenditure be made. 
Do all outlays of the Council require the approval of the Prime Minister. 
Are such outlays subject to the scrutiny of the AuditorGeneral. 
Will details of outlays by the Council be presented in detail to the Parliament; if so when. 
On whose decision was $ 12,000 provided for the Nimbin Pop Festival. 
-I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether he is yet in a position to give the facts in connection with the plight of some 200 Aborigines on Utopia station in central Australia who have been reported as subsisting on a starvation diet. Is their welfare not the direct responsibility of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs? What action is being taken in respect of their well-being? 

 Senator CAVANAGHThe report which I received on this question was that the squatter had refused supplies to the Aborigines. I believe that there was some justification for the report that there was a system under which some Aborigines were without food. But my Department is sending emergency supplies to meet the position. I believe it is under the control of a group in the Northern Territory. The Department of Aboriginal Affairs is sending supplies so that those who are refused food do not go hungry. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the widespread concern among grape growers, particularly in the irrigated areas of South Australia, at having received notification from wineries that because of the effects of the brandy excise increases these wineries will not require grapes from the growers for the coming vintage? To enable planning to be done well ahead, and in the light of replies to questions on this matter prior to the suspension of the sitting, will the Minister make this matter one of extreme urgency so that the growers and the wineries will know where they stand in their planning for the coming vintage? 
The Senate is now considering the Meat Export Charge Bill 1973 and the Meat Export Charge Collection Bill 1973. The purpose of the first Bill is to impose a charge on meat exported from Australia so that the Government may recoup the cost of export meat inspection and its outlay on the national brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. The second Bill is complementary to the Meat Export Charge Bill and provides the machinery necessary for the collection of the charge. As these Bills are complementary may I suggest that they be debated cognately. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Is it the wish of the Senate that the 2 Bills be debated cognately? There being no objection, I will allow this course to be followed. 
Thank you. The charge on meat exports is proposed at a rate of 1.6c per lb on exports of meat and edible offals derived from cattle and calves. As is pointed out in the second reading speech, this charge includes 0.6c per lb to recoup expenditure on the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaign. 
The charge on the export of meat and edible offals derived from sheep, lambs, goats and pigs will be lc per lb. I am impelled to say at once that this Government in its Budget has shown no sympathy for rural interests. There is no evidence at all to indicate that there is an appreciation of the fact that rural industry, through a series of years of adverse climatic conditions and low prices, has had a time of difficulty which no other sector of the economy has experienced. 
The rural debt is still exceedingly high. It is in excess of $3,000m. The rural producers have barely emerged from the bad times as far as prices and conditions are concerned. Most certainly there has not been sufficient time to recover financially. Yet the Government seems to have the idea that the man on the land is just rolling in wealth. It is now proposing that a service which has been given to the producer through many years by governments- that is, the inspection of export meat and the eradication of the 2 diseases to which I have referred- is to cease and a charge is to be imposed on the producer to meet the costs of these inspection and eradication programs. 
When one refers to the expectations of meat production, based on the rate of 1.6c per pound which is suggested in this legislation, it appears to me that the amount is greater than that required for the stated purposes of the legislation. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics made submissions to the Prices Justification Tribunal recently estimating meat production over the next 3 years. It is for a period of 33 months from now that this charge is proposed to be levied. On the basis of the estimates of the Bureau production for the remaining part of this year would be 961,400 tons. The inspection charge levied at the rate of lc per lb would return $16,1 50,000. For the year from 1 July 1 974 to 30 June 1975 the estimated production of 1,105,000 tons would return, at lc per lb levy, $24,760,000. The estimate for the year 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1976 is 1,271,400 tons and, again at lc per lb, this would return $28,480,000. Therefore for the next 33 months, which is the period used for working out the proposed levy, the Government says that it requires 1.6c per lb. On the Bureau of Agricultural Economics production estimates the total collections at lc per lb would amount to $69,390,000. At the proposed charge of 1.6c the collections would amount in this period to approximately $85m. 
Last year the cost of meat inspection was $ 11.4m. Allowing for a 25 per cent annual growth factor in production, the cost of inspection and other services this year would be about $ 14.5m. In 1974-75 it will cost $ 17.9m and in 1975-76 $22.4m. So for this year and the 2 succeeding years a total of $54.8m will be required to meet the costs. But in that period at 1 .6c per lb the income will be $69,395,000. As I have said this is an excess of some $ 1 5.95m. I can see no reason for this. I deplore the impact of the levy and, in the first place, the incidence of it. Seemingly this excess amount will go into revenue. I understand that  Senator Drake-Brockman  has an amendment in relation to the handling of the funds once they are collected. It is my intention in the Committee stage to move an amendment. I propose a reduction in the proposed levy from 1 ,6c to 1 c per lb. At this stage I do not oppose the second reading of the Bill. 
I move: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to make the following amendment: 
In sub-clause (2), paragraphs (a) and (b), leave out 1.6c, insert lc. 
The impost is not a light one. The impost on a lightweight carcass, a 500 lb beef carcass, at1c per lb is $5 or $8 at 1.6c per lb. On an 800 lb carcass, at 1 . 6c per lb it is an impost of $12.80. The impost is not a light one to the beef producers. In many instances it is greater than their transport charge from the place of raising the cattle to the point of sale. So I can see no reason why the charge should be higher than the amount which would cover the estimated expenditure for which these levy moneys are being provided. Before I proceed to cite some figures that I gave in my earlier remarks during the debate at the second reading stage, I state that I am intrigued with the Minister's reference- he has said this a couple of times today- that the charge is on the exporter and not on the producer. He stated this very clearly during the second reading speech also. I do not agree with him. I refute this idea that the exporter will pay. It will most certainly be a debit to the producer. I read the following words in the second reading speech of the Minister: 
Clearly there is every justification for charging for the export inspection service instead of perpetuating a position in which the overseas consumer is subsidised from Consolidated Revenue. 
The overseas consumer is not being subsidised. The producer- the seller- receives so much less for his beast because of the requirement of the exporter to meet a given charge. Certainly, the charge will not subsidise the price to the consumer on the overseas market. I wish to cite some figures which have been taken from the estimates of the Bureau of AgriculturalEconomics. On the estimates of production of meats which will be subject to this charge of 1 . 6c per lb over the next 3-year period, $85m will be raised. I point out that I gave these figures earlier and they are in Hansard. 
Allowing for a 25 per cent annual growth factor in production, the cost of inspections this year would be about $ 14.5 m. In 1974- 75 the cost would be $ 17.9m, and in 1975- 76 it would be $22.4m. These figures add up to a total charge of $54.8m on meat production. I point out that these are the estimates of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics. The income received from a levy of 1 . 6c per lb would give a balance of $30.2 m at that point before the deduction was made to meet the eradication cost of brucellosis and tuberculosis. On the basis of needing $5m a year for eradication purposes, and thus $ 15m for the 3-year period, at the 1.6c per lb levy rate we have $ 15m remaining. 
-That is the point. If the levy were lc per lb as I propose under this amendment the result would be to have pretty well a line ball. I see no reason why the producer's money should be held by some other party or authority unnecessarily - 
It is a very important amount of money that is involved. I feel that it is related very much to the cost to the producer. When the position is taken in this light: In many instances- perhaps in most- the cost of transport of the beast within Australia will be equated by the amount taken from the producer through this levy. The producer in the centre of Australia away from the distant markets markets heavy beasts. The cost to such a producer per head of cattle is very high and the incidence of the charge at 1.6c per lb would be possibly the same as the transport cost for the beast. So this represents a big impost on the producer. 
-That is what it would cost him for his money. I have pleasure in moving this amendment. I feel that it is realistic. It is in the best interests of producers and it is a fair amendment. It is one to which I feel the Government should not object because the revenue collected under it should approximate the needs of the Government to meet the cost of both inspection and eradication for the period covered by the legislation 
I believe the situation is that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  cannot give a firm indication- a watertight indication- of what the receipts will be. I understand that the figures given in the past have been based on the weight of shipped meat and that that is the basis on which the figures have been presented today. Therefore in that situation I think we should proceed to a vote on the amendment I proposed and I suggest that the matter be determined by the Committee. 
Question put: 
That the House of Representatives be requested to leave out the figures and words proposed to be left out  (Senator Laucke's amendment). 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. It concerns the incidence of trade practices legislation on certain areas of industry. Irrespective of the outcome of the prices and incomes referendums. I point out that, there are States which now exercise, and I presume will continue to exercise, price control. Is it intended that the provisions of the trade practices legislation will apply to those industries engaged solely in the production of goods the prices of which are detetmined by State price control authorities, or does he consider there is sufficient restraint in such control to render the application of the trade practices legislation superfluous and unnecessary in those cases? 
I present the following petition from 101 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
) That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the extremely serious implications in all the matters raised by  Senator Georges  during the debate last Tuesday evening on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate concerning the overall operations of the Torres Strait Islands turtle raising projects conducted under the auspices of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the urgent need in the public interest for a full and prompt clarification of the matters referred to I ask the Minister When will all the relevant minutes and reports of the Aboriginal Co-operative Advisory Committee and answers made to every allegation, as promised by the Minister, be tabled in the Senate? 

 -Precisely, Sir. I refer to the Minister's reply to a question asked by  Senator Withers  in this place on 10 October. It appears on page 1087 of Hansard. The Minister stated: 
All the minutes and reports of the Aboriginal Co-operative Advisory Committee will be available. Every allegation which was made last week is the subject of a reply from the Department and that reply will be tabled in the Senate. 
I ask: When will the documents be tabled? 
With your indulgence,  Mr President,  the Minister still has not given an undertaking to honour his promise that every allegation made by  Senator Georges  will be answered and that those answers will be tabled in the Senate, as well as the minutes of the Aboriginal Co-operative Advisory Committee. 
I present the following petition from 606 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the representative of the Prime Minister in this place. I refer to the purchase of the Jackson Pollock painting 'Blue Poles' for the sum of $1,240,000, the most expensive purchase in Australian art history. I ask: Was a report on the physical condition of the painting sought and obtained from an independent expert conservator of international repute before agreement to purchase was made? If not, why not? Also, were all members of the Visual Arts Board given the opportunity of inspecting the painting before a decision to purchase was made? Was the decision to purchase a unanimous one among all members of the Board? Will the Government make available to Parliament the full record of discussions of the Board and the minutes of the meeting relevant to the decision to purchase this painting? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Prime Minister. How does the Government reconcile its attitude of hostility to acceptance of overseas capital in assisting the development of Australian resources, as instanced in the case of the proposed petro-chemical works at Redcliffs and exploitation of the copper deposits at Kapunda in South Australia, with its policy of predominant support of overseas advertising agencies as against Australian-owned agencies? Is it a fact that no government sponsored instrumentality or statutory authority has transferred its advertising business to allAustralianowned advertising agencies or enterprises since this Government came to office? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the statement made yesterday by the Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor,  that there was no need for undue haste in renewing uranium leases and exploration licences of Queensland Mines Ltd. How does the Government justify its acceptance of this cavalier and unfair attitude of the Minister in the face of the serious financial plight of this company and its associates, which plight is directly attributable to the Minister's attitudes? Will the Government allow the companies which have pioneered major uranium exploration and development of deposits in Australia to go to the wall because of a stubborn and callous disregard of urgently needed determinations by the Minister? 
-This Bill, the Aboriginal Affairs (Arrangements with the States) Bill 1973, provides enabling measures to facilitate the transfer of State officers to the Australian Public Service. Clause 5 of the Bill contains the real core of this legislation and herein it is provided:  5. ( 1 ) The Governor-General may enter into an arrangement with the Governor of a State with respect to Aboriginal affairs  . . for- 
the transfer of State employees to the Australian Public Service; 
the appointment of officers of the Australian Public Service to offices under the laws of the State concerned relating to Aboriginal affairs; 
the performance of functions under the laws of the State concerned relating to Aboriginal affairs by officers of, and employees in, the Australian Public Service; and 
the assumption by the Australian Government of responsibilities of the State concerned and its authorities relating to Aboriginal affairs. 
The Liberal Party Opposition does not oppose this legislation. In his second reading speech  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Works as he then was, said that this legislation does not constitute any form of compulsion. But he who provides the finance calls the tune and, therefore, I see in this legislation an accord with the avowed centralist policies of this Government. The Commonwealth will take over the State departments of Aboriginal affairs, as was stated to be the intention of the Government by the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Bryant,  earlier this year. He said that he would have the State departments of Aboriginal affairs under his control by 1 July. It is interesting to note that not one State agreed to hand over its department to the Commonwealth at that time. Now, we have this Bill before us which allows officers of State departments who so desire to join the Commonwealth Public Service and to work for the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs without any loss of entitlement. 
The whole background of this is good. That is why, this being a fundamental clause of the Bill, we will not be opposing it. 
Personally, I feel that with the extraordinary complex problems which constitute Aboriginal affairs and with the great variation of need no common denominator policy can be applied to solve the problems which concern the Aboriginal communities. When State officers know the locations within a State, the Aboriginal peoples resident in it and become very close to the actual conditions and requirements of the Aborigines in certain areas, there is a background of understanding which I feel is vital to achieve that to which we all aspire- the betterment of the conditions of the Aborigines. I have no desire today to range far and wide in my discussion on this measure but will adhere strictly to the immediacy of the provisions contained in the legislation. Yet, I must say- I suppose that this has a relationship to the Bill in some way- that we note the maladministration which has been going on in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs as something of a grave nature. 
This afternoon we have heard again from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I am grateful to the Minister for the information which he has provided to the Senate in response to requests made for the tabling of certain documents and papers. I am grateful to him for having done that with expedition. But I somehow feel that we still have not received all the information we must have in relation to this whole matter. That assessment is endorsed by the further statement of  Senator Georges  this afternoon. This matter is one which will be necessarily looked at very closely from every aspect of responsibility of administration. This is vitally important in connection with the accountability of governments for spending of public moneys: There have been actions which tend not to improve the lot of Aborigines but to worsen it. There is no worse impact upon an Aboriginal than a lack of confidence in himself. When that lack of confidence is brought about by governmental action through applying more and more moneys to projects which are not viable, not only is that a waste of public money but also the recipient of it is not being served in the manner in which he is entitled to be served and in which it is desired by the general public that he should be served. I indicate again that the Liberal Party will not oppose the expeditious passage of this legislation. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Yesterday  Mr Connor,  the Minister for Minerals and Energy, made a statement referring to the efforts of the Premier of South Australia in regard to the establishment of a petrochemical works at Redcliffs in South Australia. The Minister said: 
No longer will any State Premier usurp the functions of the Federal Government. No longer will any State Premier go overseas to negotiate contracts in respect of Australia's resources. That will be done through the Australian National Government. 
Can this unequivocal statement be taken as an announcement of the firm policy of the Government in the area of trade? If so, does it mean that all State governments might as well close their overseas trade missions for the tenure of office of this Government? 
I direct my question to the Minister who represents the Minister for Secondary Industry. As the manufacture of motor vehicles provides one of Australia's greatest secondary industries and is of vital importance to South Australia particularly, I ask the Minister whether he will have inquiries made into the reasons for the significant increase of the share of the Australian market captured by imported cars since January of this year which is to the detriment of the local industry. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the widespread concern currently held by the wheat industry at government intrusion into the traditional commercial provinces of the Australian Wheat Board, will the Minister define the rights of government in respect of overseas wheat sales and the authority and responsibilities of the Wheat Board? 
I indicate to the Senate that the Liberal Party Opposition will not further resist this measure. I have to say, however, that I and members of the Opposition parties, would have appreciated it if the figures which have been produced today had been made available to us at the time of the debate on this Meat Export Charge Bill 1973. These figures were not available to us at the time of our opposition to the imposition of 1 .6c per lb on beef and veal to cover meat inspection and the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication scheme. I also would have liked to have had a copy of this document. We have no desire to impede the passage of this legislation now but I would have appreciated it if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  had made available to me earlier a copy of the statement which he has just made to the Committee. The Opposition desires to expedite the passage of the Government's legislation wherever possible. We have no further reason to oppose this Bill, and I indicate now that we will not persist in our opposition to it. 
-I wish to indicate acceptance by the Liberal Opposition of the amendment moved by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt).  It meets the situation as far as we are concerned, and we will not pursue this matter any further. We appreciate the Minister's attitude in the whole affair. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 380 on 18 September 1973, how is he able to reconcile the Government's action in phasing out the duty differential on brandy with a letter dated 1 9 October 1 972 which the Premier of South Australia, the Honourable O. Dunstan, in his capacity of  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party's Federal Election Finance Committee, sent to wine and brandy makers in that State which stated, inter alia, that 'The future of the wine industry has become an issue at the forthcoming Federal Elections. The Australian Labor Party believes, and its Federal Executive has stated, that the only solution that will guarantee continued prosperity for the wine industry and the many thousands of growers who supply it is complete abolition of the excise and its non-replacement by a sales tax or any other imposition. I seek your financial support for the ALP Campaign for the Federal Elections. You have already spent many tens of thousands of dollars on the wine tax and on collecting the information required by the Customs and Excise Department The election of a Federal Labor Government will save you these costs in the future'. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had an opportunity to study the reports on the economic, scientific and financial management aspects of the Aboriginal turtle farming projects being conducted on the Torres Strait Islands, which were prepared by  Dr A.  F. Carr of the Florida University, Professor Main of Western Australia and  Mr L.  Smart, a management consultant? If so, can the Minister indicate the conclusions and recommendations arrived at in these reports and when he proposes to table the reports in the Senate? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. In view of widespread concern emanating from rural communities following announcements by the Postmaster-General 's Department that a large number of country post offices probably will either be closed or downgraded, and in the interests of decentralisation and of reasonable services being provided to country residents, will the Minister seek from the PostmasterGeneral an assurance that before final decisions are made respecting post offices involved, local government authorities be invited to make submissions to the Minister in support of the retention of these post offices with their current status? 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister indicate what progress has been made in each State for the transfer of responsibility for policy planning and co-ordination from the State Aboriginal Affairs Departments to the Australian Government. 
What States, if any, have transferred their responsibilities to the Australian Government at this stage. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. The Prime Minister, through the Attorney-General, has drafted a reply to questions asked without notice on 1 7 October by  Senator Marriott, Senator Cotton  and me concerning the purchase of the painting 'Blue Poles'. The reply, inter alia, states that $A67,310 or US$100,000 was paid to Max Hutchinson (New York) Ltd, for brokerage and other services in connection with the purchase of the painting. I ask the Attorney-General whether a member of the Visual and Plastic Arts Board, which I understand was associated with the purchase of this painting, is associated commercially with Max Hutchinson (New York) Ltd, the recipient of the commission? If so, in the public interest will immediate action be taken to ensure that there is no possibility of private commercial gain accruing to the holder of a public office arising from privilege and influence in that particular office? 
I wish briefly to indicate my attitude to the suggestion that there be convened a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Representatives to determine the matter of location of a new and permanent parliament house. On principle I am opposed to departing from normal parliamentary procedures in the determination of a matter such as this. I believe that it is through legislative enactment that matters such as this can best and most properly be determined. The House of Representatives has the number to express its desire for a certain location. If we have a vote we have the numbers for a certain site. Whilst not being very good at arithmetic, it is quite easy to tot up the numbers to see just where the majority of favour would lie for a given location. 
I was very impressed with  Senator Cavanagh  's speech this afternoon. I believe that there is no necessity to depart from normal procedures, that there should not be any inundation by members from another place either for this matter or for any other matter at all to enter into a situation which is not constitutionally provided for, as  Senator Murphy  said in his opening speech on this matter. The meeting is solely a get together for a talk. I believe it is only through firm and normal parliamentary action, as suggested by  Senator Wright  in his motion, that this matter should be finalised and determined. I will not say, nor should I say, at this stage where the location of the new parliament house should be. Are we prepared, as a Senate, to agree to the proposal for a joint meeting? In general principle and background of respect for the system as we know it between the 2 Houses I am opposed to the suggestion of a joint meeting. 
I  present the following petition from 48 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General in his capacity as Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the unwarranted condemnatory attitude of the Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  in regard to the sugar industry, as revealed in his support of views that the advertising of sugar be banned. Is it not a fact that a situation of utter absurdity could be reached, in respect of restrictions on advertising, were credence to be given to the whims of individuals as they concern foodstuffs and beverages generally? To dispel mounting concern in many areas of industry, can the AttorneyGeneral, as Leader of the Government in the Senate, give an assurance that no commodity which is freely salable according to law will be denied freedom of advertising? 
I ask the Minister for the Media what are the prospects for initial runs of television transmissions in colour being made by 
July of next year as has been sought by the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Council for the Arts proposing to visit the People 's Republic of China. 
If the answer to ( 1 ) is in the affirmative, (a) what is the reason for the visit, and (b) what will be the duration of the visit. 
Has this visit been approved by the Overseas Visits Committee. 
I have already raised my voice in protest and condemnation at the outlay of public moneys to the extent of US$2m for the purchase of a so-called work of art. The prodigality, the reckless spending of this Labor Government is blatantly illustrated in this decision to purchase the painting Blue Poles'. To me this epitomises the irresponsibility of this Government in its whole attitude towards raising and distributing public revenue. We have a rampant inflationary situation with rising interest rates and with harm being done to many people throughout the nation. There is no sign of getting down to firm and resolute activity to overcome what is, at the present time, a financially disastrous situation for Australia. I rise to say these few things now as I condemn utterly the appropriation for works such as this. I feel that nobody in Australia would be averse to having in the National Gallery in the first instance works of Australian art. We have excellent examples of both modern and earlier art which show what our folk are capable of doing. The National Gallery in the first instance should depict the art of the country. We have great artists in Australia. 
I pay tribute right now to what has been done in previous years in getting together a collection of art works at monetary outlays which have been consistent with responsibility and which have given the nation an excellent background for its National Gallery. In my opinion this purchase only indicates the lack of appreciation of the Government of moneys which are extracted from the people and which could be better applied in other directions. The Government has no consideration for the promotion of efficiency in industry. The very source of wealth is seemingly disregarded but the spending of money is OK. I condemn the Government's attitude in relation to outlays as epitomised in this purchase which is part of the appropriation which we are now considering. 
Very briefly I wish to indicate my support for the motion. Our leader has indicated the general attitude of the Liberal Party Opposition in relation to this matter. I would like to commend  Senator Wood  for having introduced this motion for disallowance and particularly for his having amended the original proposal so that the present proposal is to embrace only the disallowance of increases in connection with business premises, including hotels, motels and other establishments. I feel that the Ordinance underlines the incidence of the unfair treatment of a certain section of the community, which I feel must be rectified. The increases in charges are extremely selective and represent a very heavy impact on the hotel and motel accommodation in the Australian Capital Territory. From the tourist point of view it would be most undesirable to impose a terribly heavy impost. 
I believe that  Senator O  'Byrne possibly included in the figures that he cited ratings other than those for sewerage. In some States, the Council rates, water rates and sewerage rates are brought together into one figure. I felt that the figures he referred to surely must not be factual if applied to sewerage alone. The hotel and motel industry in the Australian Capital Territory provides some 2,000 rooms. An extra $95,600 would be required from the industry under this proposal to cover its guest rooms, plus the charges for staff and public area units. I have no doubt that the levy proposed in the Ordinance which seeks to double the sewerage rate for toilet units to $50 each after the first 2 units at $25 each would have a very heavy impact on the tourist industry, leading to an increase in tariffs. I believe that one of the biggest bugbears of tourism in Australia at the present time is the ever escalating tariff charges for accommodation. To increase the basic sewerage rate by $25 making it $50 across the whole of the business community would, in fact, increase the liability of this section by no less than $357,700. While this business community has a combined total of less than 12 per cent of the flushing units in Canberra it is being asked to pay more than 2 1 per cent of the total estimated revenue from sewerage rates in the year 1973-74. I believe that a very heavy impost on motel and hotel accommodation could well be reflected in policies in other parts of Australia. So I believe that from the point of view of undesirable selectivity, burdening on section of the community, the business interests, in this way this is wrong. I am completely in favour of the motion for disallowance of this regulation, as moved by  Senator Wood. 
Is it desired that we deal with the 2 Bills together? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
These Bills are purely machinery Bills. They provide, for conversion to metric measure, definitions of what shall determine a winery and what shall determine a distillery. The imperial weight of tons- 2,240 lbs- is converted to tonnes- 2,204 lbs- under the metric system. The Wine Overseas Marketing Bill changes, quite simply, 25 tons to 25 tonnes. This is the Bill which has reference to wineries and distilleries. The Wine Grapes Charges Bill changes the weight from 10 tons to 10 tonnes. 
The charges levied by virtue of this Bill will provide the sources of finance to operate the Australian Wine Board. The Wine Overseas Marketing Bill sets the basis for a distillery or a winery to qualify for a vote on matters pertaining to the continuation of the Australian Wine Board. 
At present the maximum levies which are permitted are $2.50 per ton for fresh grapes and $7.50 per ton for dried grapes. The current operative rates are $2.10 per ton for fresh grapes and $6.30 per ton for dried grapes. In the conversion from tons to tonnes there is an increase of 1 . 5 per cent in the levy because the amount which is now applicable when applied to 2,204 lb as against 2,240 lb results in a slight increase. The levies at present are not at their maximum. Last year the Board's income from the levy was $512,597. Of this, $308,283 was spent on publicity in Australia, and $144,730 was spent on publicity and services in overseas markets. The general matters pertaining to the industry- grape production, wine making, brandy making and so on- are not in these instances relevant to the Bills. They are machinery Bills which give effect to the changes to the metric system from the imperial system. We support the proposals. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without amendment or requests or debate. 
This Bill provides for an increase in the payment of fees in respect of licences for commercial broadcasting stations. It is a budgetary measure and it increases the basic licence fee for broadcasting stations by 4 times from $50 to $200 and also produces a new scale of rates for taxing the gross earnings of the broadcasting stations. It is said in the second reading speech that the increase in additional revenue which is to be gained from this proposal is $120,000 in 1973-74. Last year the income from licencing amounted to $491,204. The increase in fees, naturally, would have the greatest impact on the viability of the smaller stations. I notice that effort has been made to ease the incidence of the rating in the very low scales of earnings. 
In the old Bill the amount of 1 per cent of gross earnings was levied on income not exceeding $ lm. The new proposal is for 1 per cent of gross earnings up to $500,000. In the old scale there was a 2 per cent levy on earnings exceeding $ 1 m and not exceeding $2m. In the new proposal it is 1.5 per cent of gross earnings from $500,000 to $lm. There are 8 categories of assessment, as it were, in the new scale. There were four in the old scale. In the old scale of fees there was a rise from 1 per cent to 4 per cent, whereas now there are gradients of 0.5 per cent increases over the figures hitherto covered by the old scale. In effect, it means that the industry will be paying $150 more per fee for licence. There are 118 commercial stations in Australia and the total additional revenue is expected to be $120,000. It is always a matter of concern when charges are increased. In the case of the smaller broadcasting stations, particularly those in the outback areas and those in the remoter parts of Australia, the impact of increased costs bears heavily. I am gratified to see an endeavour being made to assist the stations in that category. I appreciate the fact that revenue must be obtained. There has been no increase since 1964, in either the licence fees or the rates of levy imposed on the gross earnings of the stations. The Opposition will not oppose this Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs whether many Aborigines entitled to vote have not enrolled for the National Aboriginal Consultative Committee elections. If so, to what does the Minister ascribe this situation? Can he indicate the number of Aborigines who have enrolled to date? 
I rise merely to allow  Senator McManus  to continue. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In view of the disclosure yesterday to the' Parliamentary Public Accounts Committee that prefabricated cottages supplied for a $400,000 Aboriginal self-help housing scheme had failed to meet specifications, I ask what action the Minister intends to take to protect the public revenue in that matter and in similar matters? 
-I wish to indicate my very full support for this Parliament Bill. I commend  Senator Wright  for having introduced it. It enables us to come to a determination in a completely parliamentary statutory process in regard to a decision as to the site of a new and permanent parliament house. I admire the concept of quite a huge area of land being retained and the provision that no buildings are to be erected on this land without the permission of Parliament. This is a constructive approach. It certainly fits in with my own aspirations of where the parliament house should be. I have pleasure in supporting the proposals of  Senator Wright. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the serious world shortage of petroleum products and the need to ensure greater self-sufficiency in these basic commodities in Australia, what action is the Government taking to revitalise interest in oil search and exploitation in both on-shore and submerged areas? Is it not a fact that Australia is losing out to Indonesia and other South East Asian countries in oil search activity because of greater incentive and encouragement being provided in those countries as against the attractions that Australia is now offering? 
-I refer the AttorneyGeneral to a reply to a question which he gave recently in which he said that $A67,310 or US$100,000 was paid to Max Hutchinson (New York) Ltd for brokerage and commission in connection with the purchase of the painting 'Blue Poles'. On 8 November I asked the AttorneyGeneral whether a member of the Visual and Plastic Arts Board, which Board had to deal with the purchase of the painting, is associated with Max Hutchinson (New York) Ltd, the recipient of the commission. I then asked whether in the public interest action would be taken to ensure that there is no possibility of private commercial gain accruing to the holder of a public office arising from influence and privilege in that office. At that time the Attorney-General replied that he would look into the matter and advise me as to these connections. I further ask: Is there connection between Max Hutchinson (New York) Ltd and galleries in Sydney? 
-This Bill amends the Wheat Tax Act 1957-1966 to provide for a maximum rate of tax of 15c per tonne on wheat delivered to the Australian Wheat Board. The proceeds of this levy are paid to the State wheat research committee in each mainland State in accordance with the production of wheat in each State. The Australian Wheatgrowers Federation recommends the levy. I understand that it is to be set at 1 lc per tonne for the coming season. This will return to the Wheat Industry Research Council $1.2m, an increase of $200,000 over last year's return. 
I wish to speak briefly on the excellence of the provisions of" the Act. In 1957 the scheme was inaugurated to obtain money from the growers, matched by the Federal Government and by State governments in some areas, for the purpose of research into the wheat industry. Since the inception of the scheme no less than $20m has been collected and expanded on very important research projects. The fields of research are worth mentioning. Through the years I have observed the benefits which have accrued to the wheat industry and to the local flour milling industry. I have observed the ability of Australian producers to place wheat in many world markets as a result, quite directly, of the benefits of research which these moneys have made possible. 
The areas of research are set out in the annual report of the Wheat Industry Research Council. One area of research is soil moisture. The research is related to the time of sowing and the soil moisture available during the growing season. This has enabled farmers in certain rainfall areas to grow varieties of wheats which have greatly enhanced the yield capacity of our wheat lands. Another area of research is soil organic matter. In earlier years we were prone to rip out the organic matter in the soil to such a degree that it left a pretty poor base from which to produce highly proteinous crops. Research into soil build-up and putting organic matter back into the soil has been of real advantage to the wheat industry. 
Another area of research is soil nitrogen. Research has led to greater knowledge of the use of legumes and other assistance to build up soil nitrogen, both to maintain wheat yields and to enable other crops to be grown on what otherwise would be worn out soils. The plant breeding of wheat has been a major interest of the various State wheat research committees. I recall that about 10 years ago, as a result of breeding programs, there was a very important finding from research at the Roseworthy College in South Australia. The finding was in respect of wheat proteins. It was shown very clearly that certain varieties of wheat had a correlation between amount of protein and quality of protein. South Australia, particularly, grows very widely the socalled weapon varieties- the dirks, the scimitars and so on- which were bred at the Roseworthy Agricultural College, with the assistance of moneys from these levies and research at Waite Research Institute. It was found from that research and from milling tests that these varieties had a correlation. Before then we had wheat with a very high proteinous content but with a poor quality protein. Such wheats do not produce first class bread flour. The ability to correlate quality of protein with quantity of protein assists the milling industry in Australia. Such wheat is sought by overseas milling interests. 
Today there is a highly competitive market for grains generally, although things are easier now in regard to wheat sales; but there was a timethere will be again, I have no doubt- when the selective overseas buyers sought to obtain the wheat which best suited their immediate requirements, whether it was for bread flour, biscuit flour or flour made from durum wheat to produce farinaceous foods, etc. I have no doubt that, in relation to these areas of research, the cooperation between the Australian wheat farmers and the governments has been of inestimable value to the farmers, to the national economy and to the future security of the wheat industry. The Liberal Party Opposition- I understand that the Country Party's attitude will be the samehas no objection to the Bill and lauds its provisions. 
The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill (No. 2) gives effect to the proposal announced in the Budget to abolish the exemption from sales tax which is applicable to nonalcoholic carbonated beverages which contain not less than 5 per cent by volume of Australian fruit juice or its equivalent in concentrated form. It is a Bill of very great moment and concern to the horticultural industries throughout Australia. This measure is detrimental to the interests of rural industry. It is a direct outcome of the recommendations of the task force set up to review the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government. I note that in the report of the task force the nature of the expenditure is referred to as follows: 
A 'disguised' expenditure directed towards assistance of Australian fruit-growers through an exemption from the general rate of sales tax. 
In its comment the task force stated: 
There is little doubt that withdrawal of the exemption would have a marked effect on the incomes of apple growers, especially in the face of current adverse market conditions for Australian apples in the Common Market countries. The effect on citrus growers is difficult to measure but it is likely that there would be some falling off in the demand for citrus juice. 
It is the reference to the adverse effect which gives concern to members of my Party. At this time of the evening I shall not speak for any longer than is necessary to indicate our attitudes in respect of this matter but I give notice now that I propose to move an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The motion I intend to move is as follows: 
Leave out all words after ' That ', insert- the Bill be deferred until the Government reports to the Senate on the action it proposes to take on: 
currency revaluation compensation for the sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of the exemption; 
compensation for unsaleable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Government's decision; and 
assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets for juices. 
Fruit growing certainly is the  Cinderella  of the rural industries. In other sectors we have buoyancy. There is buoyancy in the beef and mutton industries, in the wheat industry and in the wool industry. Fruit growers are the ones who have suffered enormously, particularly from the effects of revaluation. Whilst certain things have been done to assist, they have been palliatives of a degree not at all in accord with the harm and detriment which has been done to fruit growers through the effects of revaluation. There has been only token assistance or compensation given to this industry which is working on extremely fine margins. There is an urgent need for a thorough look at the matter of adequate revaluation compensation for the sections of the fruit growing industry affected by this Bill. 
As I see it, there was no consultation with the apple, the pear and the citrus industries, or any other fruit industry or associated industries, before this decision was announced to remove the sales tax exemption. None of those bodies were asked to express an opinion on the effect of the withdrawal. I have no doubt that the industry was not researched in the way it should have been researched before an imposition of this type was placed upon an already struggling industry. Protection not direct but indirect, has been given to the citrus industry- this applies to the other fruit growing industries as well- through the sales tax exemption on soft drinks which contain not less than 5 per cent by volume of fruit juices. This has been a means of creating markets for otherwise unsaleable fruit in many instances and it has taken the pressure off the local fresh fruit markets so as to retain a reasonable stability in price for fruit placed on that market. We have duty on imported juice, sugar rebates and sales tax exemption as part of the pattern of assistance. These are some of the indirect forms of assistance which have been built into the industry as a whole and without which it would suffer very greatly indeed. They are part of an orderly marketing system and any alteration to this support pattern in my opinion should not be taken before the whole subject has been thoroughly examined. 
For the Government to damage overnight the props with which the fruit marketing system has been involved over a long period of time, at no cost to the Government or to the consuming public by way of direct subsidies, indicates a failure to understand fully the widespread effects of such action. As far as families are concerned, this action undoubtedly means a rise in the price of soft drinks. In Australia 50 per cent of citrus production goes into juice in some form or other. It is revealing to note how the amount of fruit from the citrus industry which has gone into juice has increased through the years. In 1966, 4,172 tons of navel oranges, 41,900 tons of valencia oranges, 10,000 tons of lemons and 2,063 tons of grapefruit- a total of more than 58,000 tonswere processed by our juicing factories. Last year- that is 6 years later- the total tonnage was 1 86, 1 09 tons. That is an enormous increase in the outlet for citrus fruit via juices. The valencia orange crop particularly has increased- from 41,900 tons in 1966 to 125,000 tons. The lemon crop has increased from 10,000 tons 6 years ago to 19,374 tons. The grapefruit crop has increased from 2,063 tons to 6,735 tons. They are very big increases. The lemon industry has been assisted by the Government in order to meet an immediate situation. But assistance has not been given to the industry overall.  Senator Wright  proposes to speak on this Bill and he will make reference to its impact on the apple industry which is so vital to the economy of Tasmania. 
The need for compensation for unsalable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Government's decision- to which I have made reference in my proposed amendment- is an important aspect of this matter. A not very large organisation with a factory in the apple growing area in the Adelaide Hills had on hand $400,000-worth of apple juice- this is Plaimar Ltd at Lobethal- which, because of the proposals contained in this legislation, does not have any use to which it can be put. The encouragement given to aerated water manufacturers to include fruit juice in their products is not present. Because of that, this very direct hurt is being occasioned to the industry. I give just one instance of the stocks on hand. I know that the Berri Fruit Juices Co-op Ltd in South Australia has big stocks of citrus juice for aerated waters in great danger of not being able to be used. Again the effect flows back to the citrus grower and the inability to sell his product which arises from this legislation. 
I have quoted part of the Coombs Task Force report on this matter. There is another part to which I wish to refer in order to be consistent and to give both sides of the question. It states: 
. looked at purely as a form of assistance to apple and citrus growers, the exemption is rather an uneconomic form of subsidy. 
It points out that the benefit of the $25m reduction in the revenue received by the Government does not go to the grower. It suggests that a small portion of it only would go to the grower. Maybe this is not one of the ideal methods of assisting the industry, but no alternative is offered at the moment. The lethargy which has marked the activities of the Government in relation to giving adequate, fair and reasonable compensation to the industry calls for the retention of this exemption until such time as acceptable alternatives are offered. Thus far they have not been offered. 
The troubles of the fruit growing industry, be they in the canning section or the fruit juice section, are due largely, as I have said, to revaluation. They are due also to the fine margins on which growers and canning organisations operate when they export their fruit. Their is no tolerance, as it were, to take anything further by way of adversity. Therefore, nothing should be done to the further detriment of the industry; rather should urgent consideration be given to assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets  Ibr  juices. Assistance should be given by way of currency revaluation compensation in a proper way; compensation should be given to those who have unsalable fruit juices on hand; and assistance should be given in finding alternative avenues for disposal of production. These things could be looked at quickly by the Government. At the point when they are looked at and satisfactorily determined a little justice will have been done to the fruit growers. I move the following amendment: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert- the Bill be deferred until the Government reports to the Senate on the action it proposes to take on: 
currency revaluation compensation for the sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of the exemption; 
compensation for unsaleable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Government's decision; and 
assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets for juices.' 
I address a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. I refer to the reply which I received from the Minister to question on notice No. 380 in which I asked whether the Government, when in Opposition, had asserted that if elected to the Treasury bench it would promptly remove the existing 25c per gallon excise charge applicable to wine and would not impose any alternative form of taxation on the wine industry. I then referred to the steep- - 
I address my question to the Attorney-General as the representative of the Prime Minister in this place. In view of the widespread criticism of the conduct of the affairs of the Council for the Arts and to give credence to the much vaunted claim of the Government that it supports and practises the principle of open government and more consultation, will he ask the Prime Minister to table  Mr Peter  Hall's letters of resignation from the Council for the Arts that were addressed to the Prime Minister and the  Chairman  of the Council? 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms were presented by  Senator Jessop  and  Senator Davidson. 
Petitions received. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. In a statement to the Senate on 23 October concerning the turtle farming projects being conducted in the Torres Strait Islands, the Minister indicated that he was inclined to favour a system of referral of applications for loans, advances and grants for Aboriginal enterprises to an all-Party parliamentary standing committee for assessment by the Committee. Does he intend to pursue this course? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. The Treasurer indicated in his Budget speech that tax concessions in respect of land development costs would not be allowed in the future unless a contract for work was entered into before 2 1 August. 
As land development is a continuing process from scrub clearing to pasture establishment and in many cases is carried out without written contracts and quotations, will those landholders who can clearly show that given developmental projects were partly completed as at 2 1 August qualify for tax concessions to the finalisation of those immediate projects? 

 - Mr President, is it the intention of the 
Government that the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill and the Wheat Export Charge Bill be debated cognately? 
I present the following petition from 19 Citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms was presented by  Senator Jessop. 
Petition received. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the very sad and unsatisfactory circumstances surrounding the frustration of the desire of  Mr and Mrs Bob  King of Rivett to adopt their partAboriginal foster child Kelly. As the happiness of the child, the foster parents and the mother should be paramount in this matter and achievable if red tape can be cut, I ask the Minister whether he has made any progress in his efforts to facilitate the adoption. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. As the incidence of red rust in many of the wheat belts in Australia has had a really adverse impact on yields of wheat, I would like to know whether the Minister has had a recent re-estimation of this season's wheat crop in Australia. 
Further to the question directed to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Murphy)  by  Senator Wright  in relation to any association between the New 
York firm of Hutchinson and a firm of a similar name and, I understand, proprietorship in SydneyI refer to Gallery A Exhibitions Pty Ltd- I want to know whether in fact there is any association. I have asked this question time and again. Is there any connection between those 2 organisations and is a member of that organisation one who has something to say in relation to the paintings which may or may not be purchased by the Australian Visual and Plastic Arts Board? 
I wish to take this opportunity to raise a matter which concerns the accessibility of the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  in matters pertaining to tourism as they have been sought to be discussed with him by a  Mr Marc  Stone who is the Director of Marc Stone Village 
Olympus Management Co. Pty Ltd.  Mr Stone  and his company plan to build and operate a number of specialised sports centres and tourist villages throughout Australia and the South Pacific. This gentleman claims that  Mr Stewart  has turned a blind eye to his plans for an Australian owned tourist plant development corporation. He sees the corporation as a travel industry group able to study successful overseas business methods and projects and obtain money from major overseas financial sources for tourist operators in Australia. 
It seems to me that this man 's efforts to discuss his attitude to what could well be very good promotion of tourism in Australia have been thwarted by a non-acceptance by the Minister of a request to discuss these matters with him. I raise this matter as one of concern expressed to me by this man. I ask that the matter be referred again to the Minister for his reconsideration. I trust that the Minister will display a preparedness to discuss matters such as this with the person who seeks these interviews. 
I wish to raise a matter in respect of the estimates submitted to Senate Estimates Committee E by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. In one line there is a proposed appropriation of $70,050,000 for Aboriginal advancement. The money is to be paid into the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account. It is true that there are a number of pages of figures which give a breakdown of this huge amount. But the breakdown is not sufficiently detailed to answer the queries in the minds of honourable senators. For instance, I refer to the $1,500,000 which is provided for legal aid. I would like to know how this $ 1 ,500,000 is to be spent or has been allocated in the past. Are there legal men retained consistently to be on hand in the event of a request for legal assistance? Is the $1,500,000 provided to pay usual fees for legal advice as it may be sought. All the information we have is that $1,500,000 is being appropriated. I would like some explanation as to what constitutes legal aid and the system under which it is administered. 
Further, a seeming looseness overall in this Department was exemplified by the fact that 2 different sets of explanatory notes and figures were given prior to the examination of those estimates by the Committee. In the first issue it was shown that $340,000 would be provided for turtle farming projects. In the second edition which appeared a little while afterwards this amount was shown as $700,000. 1 would like to know how it came about that within a matter of days there was such a large variation in respect to an allocation. 
-The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, in reply to an earlier question by  Senator Withers,  stated that Applied Ecology Pty Ltd which conducts the turtle farming projects in the Torres Strait Islands will in future be a scientific and research organisation. What effect will this change have on Aboriginal employment opportunities as compared with the commercial turtle farming projects? What are the specific objectives of the proposed new organisation? Will the total present stocks of turtles be taken into the new arrangements or will there be some financial returns from sales of stock now on hand? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Petitions in identical terms from 256 citizens and 128 citizens of the Commonwealth were presented by Senators Jessop and Young respectively. 
Petitions received. 
I desire to direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the serious damage caused by storm and tempest to rural industries in South Australia in recent days, as a result of which some cereal growing areas have suffered crop losses of up to 90 per cent, with the barley loss being estimated by the General Manager of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Barley Board to be between 3 million and 4 million bushels, and with estimates of losses in some cases of up to 90 per cent of fruit crops, will the Minister institute inquiries into the situation with a view to affording financial relief in cases of individual hardship? 
-by leave- Yesterday, on the motion of  Senator Byrne,  the matter of the operation, control and conduct of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd and its associated companies was referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. In the interests of full, free and open inquiry into this whole matter- the first thing which I mention is inter aha with other matters- I ask the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  to stay his hand in respect of the recasting of the Board of Applied Ecology Pty Ltd to ensure that the present directorate, including  Senator Georges, Mr Thorburn  and  Mr Neil,  remains in office until the Senate Committee has completed its inquiries. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Science. I refer to the warning issued by the Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  that purchase of colour television sets should be delayed until necessary safety standards concerning radiation and flammability have been set. As the Government has indicated that the standards will be announced in June of next year, will action be taken to expedite a determination of the safety standards so that the manufacturing industry will not be unduly prejudiced and delayed in setting up its production program? 
 I have listened closely to the Minister. Perhaps we can achieve in another way what we seek to achieve by changing the word 'shall' to may' in proposed new section 13c, and by inserting the words 'if the court so orders' in proposed new section 13d (1). I have a suggestion that may be acceptable to the Minister. We could provide that where an offence is alleged to have been committed the ship may be seized until such time as the court has determined whether an offence has been committed. I believe that such a provision would have the same effect as the amendments I have moved. I should like that suggestion considered. 
Clause 20 applies to the provisions relating to the forfeiture of foreign boats retrospectively.  Senator Lawrie  has referred to this retrospectivity clause in relation to the previous Bill. The same situation applies here. I would like the comments of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in relation to what he proposes to do about this clause. 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the concern of grape growers about the prospect of disposing of their production at the coming vintage as a result of the adverse budgetary measures? Has the Government plans to meet a situation of surplus at the next vintage. If so, what are these plans? 
Is it the desire of the Senate that the Fisheries Bill and the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill be debated cognately? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Is leave granted for the Bills to be debated cognately? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The Liberal Party Opposition is not opposed to the general concept underlying the provisions of these Bills. The Fisheries Bill 1973 amends the Fisheries Act 1952-1970. I wish at this moment to refer particularly to this Act. At the time of introduction of the original Bill the then Minister for Commerce and Agriculture said that the purpose of the Bill was to legislate in respect to swimming fish in Australian waters beyond territorial limits in order that fishing in those waters could be so regulated that existing fisheries resources would be conserved for regular commercial development, and excessive exploitation of our fish resources would be prevented. The need for proper management was evident then. It is of greater importance now. The fishing industry in 1971-72 had a production value of $9 1.8m, but 10 years ago it was only $3 1.7m. The increase in export income has been spectacular. In the 10-year period to last year the increase has been about 400 per cent, from $ 15.2m to $75.7m. A visit to the Port Lincoln processing works in South Australia, where shellfish, tuna, salmon and other varieties are processed, reveals the buoyancy of the growth of the industry. This appears to be the pattern of development in all major fishing areas around the Australian coast. It would be a retrograde stance that did not seek to regulate reasonably and to expand the potential of the fishing industry. 
Consequent upon the passage of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill, one assumes that the Commonwealth will be issuing fishing licences in its own name. One hopes that this will be done in full consultation with the States. The State fisheries departments are experienced and knowledgeable. The Commonwealth is not at this point of time, as I see it, equipped with the people or the experience to issue licences because it does not have the same degree of background knowledge that the State officers have. I stress that there must be very close co-operation with the States. If the sovereignty provision of the Seas and Submerged Lands Act is successfully challenged, the States would issue fishing licences in their immediate jurisdiction, to the 3-mile limit, and would issue composite licences beyond that limit. But I wish to stress particularly the need for consultation to arrive at a workable arrangement which has direct bearing on an industry highly important to Australia these days. 
I wish to foreshadow amendments to clauses 1 1 and 12 of the Fisheries Bill, which will have the effect of removing the arbitrary condition of forfeiture and provide that the ordering of forfeiture be made a matter for the courts. On the world scene as regards the forfeiture of vessels which are in breach of fishing laws, in Japan the penalty imposed is a fine of 200,000 yen, or $A494, or 3 years imprisonment or both. The court may also order the forfeiture of any or all vessels or all their catch and fishing equipment. The court also may order monetary payment in lieu of such forfeiture. In the United States of America the penalty imposed is a fine of US$100,000, which is $A67,340, or 1 year's imprisonment or both. The courts may order forfeiture of the vessel and fishing equipment, but forfeiture of the catch is mandatory. In the United Kingdom the penalty imposed for breach of the requirements in respect of proper conservation of fishery resources is a fine of 500 pounds, or $A820, as well as the court's having a discretion to order forfeiture of the catch and fishing equipment. In the Bahamas the penalty is a fine of up to $ 10,000 or 1 year's imprisonment, plus forfeiture of vessel, catch and fishing equipment at the discretion of the court. In addition, I understand that some South American countries -for example, Peru, Chile and Ecuador- do not allow foreign vessels to come within 200 miles of their coast. We can see that in these countries there is actually not the rigidity of the requirement in relation to the forefeiture of foreign vessels that we find in clause 12 of the Bill in relation to vessels which come within the jurisdiction of Australia. Clause 12 provides for the insertion of, amongst other new sections, the following proposed new section 1 3d ( 1 ): 
A foreign boat used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence under this Act is forfeited to Australia. 
We suggest that this proposed new section be amended to read: 
A foreign boat used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence under this Act, if the court so orders, is forfeited to Australia. 
I shall be moving that amendment at the appropriate time. I would like to have information from the Minister as to the proposed working of these mandatory provisions so that some light may be thrown on that which at this moment is not very clear in the second reading speech. I would also like to have explained the retroactive provision in clause 20 of the Fisheries Bill, which states: 
1 ) Section 13d of the principal Act as amended by this Act applies in relation to an offence committed before the date of commencement of that section where the boat concerned was, immediately before that date, in the possession, or under the control, of Australia, a court, an officer or a person complying with the requirement of an officer under paragraph (e) of section 10 of the principal Act and so applies as if the offence has been committed on that date. 
For the purposes of section 13d, a boat forfeited under that section by virtue of this section shall be deemed to have been seized under that section on the date of commencement of that section. 
That is quite definitely a retrospective provision, and I would appreciate the Minister's explanation on this aspect of the legislation. The Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill is on very similar lines to the Fisheries Bill. The purpose of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill is to amend certain of the machinery provisions of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act. In this second reading speech the Minister says that this is to ensure more effective administration of the legislation and, in conjunction with amendments proposed to the Fisheries Bill, to bring the principles embodied in the 2 Acts into uniformity. That is very desirable. The Minister states further that the purpose of this measure is to enable the fullest possible protection to be given to the living resources of the continental shelf of Australia and the external territories, including the Great Barrier Reef. The Minister also says in his second reading speech that such control is in accordance with international law as expressed in the 1958 
Convention on the Continental Shelf. The Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill contains a provision concerning the forfeiture of foreign boats similar to that which appears in the Fisheries Bill. I shall look at this matter more closely at the Committee stage with a view to bringing into line both the provision in the Fisheries Act and that contained in the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill in relation to the rigidity and the mandatory nature of the terms of forfeiture. I feel that I have nothing further to say on this point as it is related to those Bills, and I shall leave the detailed discussion to the Committee stage. 
In relation to clause 11,1 move: 
Clause 11, in proposed new section 13c, leave out 'shall', insert 'may'. 
Proposed new section 13c, refers to forfeiture in relation to foreign boats and states: 
Where a court convicts a person of an offence against section 13 in the Commission of which a boat that was a foreign boat was used or otherwise involved or of an offence against section 13b, the court shall order the forfeiture to Australia of . . . 
Then certain matters are referred to. I propose that the word 'may' instead of the word 'shall' be inserted in that provision. In relation to clause 12, 1 move: 
Clause 12, in proposed new section 13d. (1), after 'Act', insert ' , if the court so orders, '. 
This second amendment has a relationship to the first. With the amendment, proposed new section 1 3D. ( 1 ) would then provide: 
A foreign boat used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence under this Act, if the court so orders, is forfeited to Australia. 
I move these amendments because the rigidity and mandatory character of the proposed new sections are regarded as being excessive. Forfeiture should be under court order and not forthwith. I presume that, in determining these matters, the court would take into account criteria such as the degree of responsibility of the owner of the vessel, as distinct from the master. In addition, repeated offences, and so on, would be considered. 
-Clause 17 provides for the forfeiture of foreign ships. The wording and the intent of this clause is similar to the clause in the Fisheries Bill which we have amended. For reasons similar to those which actuated that amendment, we will be moving an amendment to this clause. Clause 17 provides in the proposed new section 18A(l)(b): 
A ship that, in relation to an external Territory, is a Territory ship, is used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence under this Act that ship shall be forfeited to Australia. 
I move: 
Clause 17, line 12, after 'shall 'insert', if the court so orders,'. 
This is in line with the amendment moved to the Fisheries Bill 1973. Since time immemorial punishment- and very drastic punishment- has been imposed only after due inquiry and judicial determination. In this clause we seek that the order of a court should be necessary before the forfeiture is made. This is a most mandatory and undesirable provision and therefore I have moved this amendment. The amended clause will then read:  1 8a. ( 1 ) Where a ship, other than- 
an Australian ship; or 
a ship that, in relation to an external Territory, is a Territory ship, is used or otherwise involved in the commission of an offence under this Act that ship shall, if the court so orders, be forfeited to Australia. 
Many provisions in the Bills which are before us are anathema to me as one who believes in promoting and encouraging productivity and as one who believes in encouraging the little man to work hard and to aspire to a better place in the sun. I would like to oppose all the measures before us now. I would do so purely on the basic business principle of the need to encourage production and to give the small man a fair go. It has been said by  Senator McManus  and  Senator Maunsell  that the rural industries have been hit to leg by the provisions of this legislation. The abolition of the investment allowances, the very heavy intrusion into previous depreciation allowances, the decision that the cost of conserving water on farms in dams and so on is to be depreciated over 30 years and that sort of thing indeed paint a pretty dismal picture overall. The measures which have been taken by the Government in respect to the raising of moneys are in themselves not conducive to the creation of wealth as such in the first instance. 
I want to make particular reference to my concern about what is being done to the grape growing and wine making industries. In the decisions it has taken to raise revenue from the operations of those industries the Government has failed to take into account the background to those industries or to think through just what effects the measures which have been taken are going to have on them. For many years the grape growing industry has enjoyed a system of stock evaluation which has enabled it to go ahead quietly. I know how it has gone ahead quietly over the years, having been brought up amongst the vineyards of the old wine making families of the Barossa Valley. This industry is said to be one of great affluence and great wealth. I know how generations of families have ploughed their profits back into it over the years. They have not been dividend payers; they have been builders and pioneers. Before those families could really achieve the strength aimed at the Government has imposed upon them a variation of the system of determining what taxes should be paid. 
I refer to section 31a of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which requires the declaration of stocks at selling values and not at the figures which have been allowed since 1953 or 1954. The previous system enabled the industry to meet its requirements in respect to the slow turnover of its product. It also enabled it to make quality wines and brandies, which has enabled a better industry to be built up on the home market and the overseas market. It is an industry which embraces many growers and many employees. It is a labour intensive industry insofar as growing is concerned. It has been a disappointment to the industry to be told of the abolition or phasing out of the taxation allowance. It has been a disappointment to it to be told that there would be a phasing out over 3 years of a provision which gave brandy a little edge over other spirits. That provision was introduced initially to meet a very serious situation in the grape growing industry, to enable clearance of great stocks. The slight advantage which has been given to locally produced spirits over the years has been of enormous assistance to the industry. It is to be phased out. Then there is an increase in the actual duty. 
I have said before that the very wrong impression has been gained that the grape growing and wine making industry is in the hands of millionaires. A small section of the industry certainly is now controlled by interests which are not the original pioneers of the industry. But in the main it is still in the hands of the proprietary companies of the families who have ploughed back all the money they have made over the years and who have built up something which is an asset not only to themselves- in my opinion they have been very selfless people- but also the districts in which they are situated. They have been providers of employment over the years. I deplore the lack of thought that has gone into the decisions which have been taken in respect to the various forms of taxation imposed upon the rural producer. I am citing in particular the grape growing area of rural production. 
I have to say again, as I have said before, that the Government has not been honest in meeting the election undertakings it has given. In the debate yesterday on the States Grants (Schools) Bill reference was made to the per capita grants which were promised prior to the election and after the election and which have not been forthcoming. In respect to the imposts upon the grape growing and wine making industries, I must refer again to an undertaking given by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  who has been horrified by the let down occasioned to him by the Australian Government in respect to promises that he made in full expectation that they would be fulfilled, because he was told that they would be fulfilled. It will be recalled that an excise duty of 50c a gallon was imposed upon wine by the previous Government and subsequently reduced to 25c a gallon. Before the last election  Mr Dunstan,  as  Chairman  of the Australian Labor Party's Federal Election Finance Committee, was authorised to make certain promises to wine makers. He contacted them by way of letter, a copy of which I have before me. In it he said: 
You have suffered from the impost placed upon the industry of the excise duty to which I have referred. If you return us to power we shall abolish the excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition. 
That was said by  Mr Dunstan,  who had written to the winemakers. I shall read more of the letter to define more clearly to honourable senators the whole meaning of the promise given and the repudiation since then of a promise which was given in good faith by a man who I believe to be genuinely interested in the wellbeing of the industry. The Premier of South Australia has been hurt deeply by what has happened. He has said that he feels ashamed that he has been let down by his own Party in this respect. There has certainly been a breach of the undertaking given. In his letter the Premier of South Australia said: 
The future of the vine industry has become an issue at the forthcoming federal elections. The Australian Labor Party believes, and its Federal Executive has stated, that the only solution that will guarantee continued prosperity for the wine industry and the many thousands of growers who supply it is complete abolition of the excise and its non-replacement by a sales tax or any other imposition. 
I seek your financial support for the ALP Campaign for the federal elections. You have already spent many tens of thousands of dollars on the wine tax and on collecting the information required by the Customs and Excise Department. The election of a Federal Labor Government will save you these costs in the future. 
You may be sceptical about the intentions of an Australian Labor Party Government regarding the excise. Accordingly, the attached form provides the opportunity for you to: 
forward a donation forthwith of 
pledge a donation to be paid only after the Federal Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Gough  Whitlam has given an unequivocal assurance during the campaign that a Government led by him will abolish the excise and not replace it with a sales tax or any other imposition. 
That unequivocal undertaking has not been honoured. 
I was present at a meeting in Berri when the member for Angas,  Mr Giles,  said in the public forum: 'I will support any move for abolition of the excise if you will give me now an unequivocal undertaking that no alternative impost will be charged on it'- and that was not forthcoming in the way it should have been at the time. It was devious. But thereafter an undertaking was given- and publicly- that the excise should be abolished. I have raised these matters because I feel it is my duty so to do in the interests of good and decent fulfilment of undertakings given, the lack of which is leading now to very great hurt and harm to this industry. In the same way there is a lack of appreciation of the needs of other sectors of rural industry before they emerge from the situations of adversity which they have gone through for years because of overseas prices and so on. I condemn these measures. They are part of the Government's overall planning and policies and one has to accept them for the time being. But I point out these things in disgust and dismay. 
-The States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill (No. 2) 1973 provides for the sum of $32.25m to be paid to the States in the manner set out in the Schedule to the Bill. The figure of $32.25m is some $ 10m more than was allocated for this purpose in the previous year. The largest share of this amount is to go to housing, and the amount allocated for this purpose is $14,422,000. In his second reading speech the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  said that this would provide some 1,100 homes. The second biggest amount is to be provided for health services and community amenities, especially water and sewerage supplies. The amount provided for these purposes is $ 10.3m. An amount of $5.4m is to go to local government authorities for certain employment providing works such as roadmaking, kerbing and guttering, conservation of areas such as the foreshores, maintenance, dust abatement, reafforestation and so on. Overall the outlays are directed to the areas in which they are required. 
I would indicate right away that we have no opposition whatsoever to the moneys being provided. We all welcome the best endeavours that are possible in assisting in what is undoubtedly a very complex and a very difficult situation. I am under no illusions at all as to the vexed and difficult problems which are associated with the direction of Aboriginal affairs. I believe that the Minister is doing all he can to meet situations of great challenge. As we see more moneys being devoted to Aboriginal advancement, I have no doubt that it is the concern of all of us to ensure that those moneys are being applied in the right areas of need and that they are the most effective allocations in any given area. 
There is no common policy which can be applied to meet the requirements of Aborigines in their various settings. I think that policies in relation to Aboriginal advancement should be resilient enough to accommodate the very real differences between the needs of Aborigines in their semi-tribal state, those in the part urban situaion who go back to the tribal situation, and those in urban areas. The problems of each of these groups have to be viewed with sympathetic understanding and appreciation. I give credit to the Minister for having said very quickly that, when moneys are being provided for Aboriginal enterprises, those enterprises should be properly vetted. At the dme the Minister mentioned this initially he said that he thought the best body for determining the acceptance or rejection of a given proposal would be an all party parliamentary committee. But since then the Minister has announced that he will have a special committee within his Department thoroughly to vet every proposal. 
It is important that when moneys are expended for Aboriginal enterprises, the enterprise on which that money is expended should have a reasonable chance of being viable and that through its success it can add to the personal satisfactions and the dignities of the Aboriginal people. In my opinion, no greater harm could be done to these people than would be done if they are encouraged to take control of enterprises which in themselves do not have the actual capabilities of being successful. So when I speak of moneys being allocated, I am saying that we have no objection but rather welcome every possible concern and assistance which can be rendered to the Aborigines and the Torres Strait islanders. But greater care has to be applied to the direction of those finances. 
I read in the Adelaide 'News' of 2 1 November that the Minister said there was merit in some criticisms levelled against the Department and at the way in which the Government was handling Aboriginal problems. He said this in reply to an article appearing in an earlier edition of the Adelaide 'News' written by Professor P. G. H. Strehlow, a professor of linguistics at the Adelaide University and one who had been engaged very actively in Aboriginal welfare through many years. Professor Strehlow was born at Hermannsburg mission in the centre of Australia and he grew up with the Aranda tribe. He is a very knowledgeable man and is most knowledgeable in all matters pertaining to Aboriginal welfare. He is also a man of deep understanding and dedication to these people. He said that some problems have grown in direct ratio to the money spent on their solution. This provides a pretty serious note to ponder over. He points out that in many instances moneys are being devoted not to the benefit of the Aborigines but to administering schemes in a proportion which is far in excess of that which should apply. 
I see that the Minister is prepared to say that things certainly require very close investigation. I am not speaking now about enterprises such as the turtle farming about which many questions have to be answered and in relation to which much has to be sorted out. I am saying that there is an awareness on the part of the Minister of a situation that really requires the closest attention and the critical appraisal of what has been done, particularly in the last year or so with the increased amounts of money being made available. 
The previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who is the present Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant),  was a very generous man and a man who sought in a very real way the betterment of the Aborigines. But he did not achieve that which was being sought by him. In my opinion, the whole thing has gone back because of insufficient research and insufficient knowledge as to the way in which money could best be directed in the interests of these good people. We will give this Bill a speedy passage. In the process of doing so, we trust that the situation of the Aboriginal people of Australia will improve continuously until they are happy with their lot and we ourselves are content in their happiness. I support this Bill. 
This is a very forthright and simple Bill. It involves the conversion from the imperial ton to the metric tonne. It involves also a 1.6 per cent increase in the canning fruit charges. The Opposition has no desire to defer or postpone it. Rather in a spirit of assisting the legislation through with the greatest possible expedition, I indicate that we will not oppose the Bill and are prepared to put it through all its stages immediately. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 
I express to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  my appreciation for the courtesy which he extended to me this morning when an officer of his Department discussed with me the proposed consequential or necessary amendments following the amendment which was passed in this place last week. It removed the mandatory and very arbitrary provision in respect of forfeiture. I believe that these amendments which fit in with the amendment which we sought last week could be taken collectively as the Minister has suggested. Again I thank the Minister for the courtesy which he has extended in this matter. 
In effect, at all times the Minister retains full responsibility? He is the responsible party under this legislation. In effect, the Secretary is under ministerial control. 
These 3 Bills are simply machinery measures. They provide for conversions from the imperial quantitative unit to the metric system. The Honey Levy Bills provide that the maximum levy that can be applied is to be converted from lc per lb to 2.2c per kilogram. That is very close to an exact conversion. It is within 0.2 per cent. The Egg Export Charges Bill provides for a similar conversion and again the figure is very close. It is within 0.2 per cent. Actually the small variation represents a decrease in the levy. The Opposition raises no objection to these Bills. They are part of the movement across to the metric system and we support their passage. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, but he may care to refer it to the Minister for Primary Industry. I refer to a Ministerial statement made to the Senate last week by the Leader of the Government in which it was indicated that $5m will be made available to the fruit growing and fruit processing industries. Can the Minister give details regarding the proposed allocations of the $5m grant, firstly in the various areas of currency revaluation compensation for the sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of certain sales tax exemptions; secondly, with regard to compensation for unsalable fruit juice derivatives on hand and losses due to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Government's decision in respect of the exemption from sales tax being removed; and, thirdly, in the area of assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets for juices? 
-The Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill (No. 2) 1973 removes the exemption of sales tax on aerated waters which contain at least 5 per cent of pure fruit juice. The Bill was debated previously on 22 November. On that occasion I pointed out that the Coombs task force which was appointed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to review the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government recommended, with the antipathy typical of it to rural industry, that that assistance which has been very important to the fruit-growing industries be removed. At that time we expressed concern at the cavalier treatment of possibly the most deserving of rural industries, bearing in mind the difficult times through which the fruit-growing industries have passed. Other sections of rural industry have had the benefit of greatly increased prices on overseas markets, but the fruit industries have suffered depressed prices and they have suffered enormously through the effects of revaluation, in relation to which reasonable consideration had to be given to the industry. Without that consideration the industry would have been in quite a hopeless position. 
I notice that it is conceded in the Coombs task force report that harm could be done to the industry by the abolition of the sales tax exemption. The report states: 
There is little doubt that withdrawal of the exemption would have a marked effect on the incomes of apple growers, especially in the face of current adverse market conditions for Australian apples in the Common Market countries. The effect on citrus growers is difficult to measure but it is likely that there would be some falling off in the demand for citrus juice. 
There we have an admission that harm could be occasioned to the industry were the recommendation of the task force to be acted upon. Nevertheless we have before us legislation which provides for the abolition of the sales tax exemption. When this Bill was before us previously I moved an amendment to the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time ' in these terms: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert- the Bill be deferred until the Government reports to the Senate on the action it proposes to take on: 
currency revaluation compensation for the sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of the exemption; 
compensation for unsalable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Governments decision; and 
assistance for promotion and research into alternative markets for juices'. 
This amendment was carried, which meant that the Bill was not read a second time but was deferred pending a report to the Senate by the 
Government. This report was given to us last week. The very important thing about it is that it makes reference to $5m being made available to the growing and the processing sectors of the industry in the form of adjustment assistance. The report states that funds will be made available to fruit processors, where cases can be substantiated, to facilitate any adjustments needed as a result of the abolition of the exemption from sales tax for carbonated soft drinks containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice. Throughout the report we have explanations of the situation, and some of these explanations are a little ambiguous and difficult to follow. For instance, on page 2 of the report it is stated: 
In the two main apple exporting States, Tasmania and Western Australia, which have in the past accounted between them for over 85 per cent of Australia's annual apple exports, 1,416 growers (i.e. over 97 per cent of those eligible in these States) have been paid a total of $1,275,176 in post-revaluation adjustment assistance up to 30 November 1973. 
A small amount of this sum would have been paid in respect of pear exports and of canning fruit, since the assistance scheme applies also to deliveries of canning fruit (apricots, peaches and pears). 
In other States many growers involved in the apple and pear export trade also grow canning fruit and the isolation of figures relating solely to apples is difficult. 
However, 85 per cent of growers eligible under either or both aspects of the scheme in States other than Tasmania and Western Australia have been paid a total of $1,402,950 up to 30 November 1973. 
I want to know whether these 2 figures of $ 1.4m and $1.2m are separate and distinct or whether they have some inter-relationship. This is not very clear to me. I would like to know to what extent revaluation compensation payments to date have actually reflected the changes in currency alignments. Does the $5m now to be allotted cover completely revaluation deficiencies arising to those growers who export .the fruit? I want to know whether they are covered completely? We want to know in pretty close detailactually, I would like an undertaking from the Minister on this point- whether the full amount of $5m will be actually expended or whether it is just to be a $5m kitty from which certain payments can be made? I ask the Minister whether the full $5m is to be paid in the form of compensation for revaluations. Can he indicate whether, if the revaluation factor is covered and some money remains, the remaining money in the balance of the account will be applied to the promotion of sales overseas and within Australia? I would like a clear assurance from the Minister on these matters. 
Having said that, I state that we are prepared to accept the offer of the Government. I regard this as a very important determination in regard to the fruit growing industry. The concern we felt in November we still feel today. We are happy that the Government has seen fit to come forward with this offer. Now we want to know just where the money will be applied and whether the amount in toto, and not just pan of it, will be applied to the industry in meeting a situation in which the industry feels, and is entitled to feel, that it should receive assistance. We support the motion for the second reading of this Bill. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  whether he has some idea at this stage how the $5m will be allocated, in the main categories. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate what amount will be allocated for revaluation adjustments? Has the Minister any anticipated figure of the compensation for unsaleable fruit juices as a result of evidence so far presented to him and applications made to him? Can he give a figure for the redundancy of assets arising from the decision to remove this sales tax exemption? Further, has he any idea what portion of the $5m is anticipated as assistance for promotion and research? 
Fears have been expressed about depression of the fresh fruit markets as a result of fruit which hitherto has been used for the production of fruit juices being placed on those markets. Would such a condition of depression on the fresh fruit markets in Australia be a basis from which State fruit authorities or associations could approach the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and indicate the adverse effect of the flooding of markets by fruit hitherto used for juicing? Would that constitute grounds for an application for compensation? 
This clause is identical with a clause which appeared in the Fisheries Bill. By deleting this clause the retroactive power is removed. I wish to indicate to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  that this morning I had a talk with gentlemen of the Department in respect to this amendment and the other amendments proposed. I shall not be asking questions of the Minister now because I am content with the advice and explanation of these amendments which have been offered to me. Again I express appreciation for that courtesy. 
The purpose of the Honey Export Charge Bill is to impose a small charge on exports of honey in order to provide necessary additional finance for the Australian Honey Board. Thus far charges have been levied only on local sales of honey and not on that which has been exported. About 40 per cent of our honey is exported and 60 per cent is used on the home market. At the time of the introduction of charges on honey consumed on the local market the export markets were in the doldrums. The export price of honey was at a very depressed level. It was thought then that it would be unfair to impose a charge on export sales. The situation is different today and the industry generally and the Australian Agricultural Council have agreed that a charge should be made. The Honey Board will determine the amount of the charge to be levied. The operative figure at the moment has been set at 0.3c per kilogram. The maximum charge that can be applied is lc per kilogram. 
The Honey Export Charge Collection Bill is complementary to the Honey Export Charge Bill and provides the machinery necessary for the collection of the charge imposed by the Honey Export Charge Bill. The third Bill, the Honey Industry Bill, provides that the amounts received under the Honey Export Charge Collection Bill shall be paid to the Australian Honey Board out of Consolidated Revenue. 
The honey industry is of importance; it is worth about $ 12m a year. The Australian Honey Board has the obligation of determining export arrangements, policies and the promotion of honey in overseas and local markets. With the passage of time the Board's financial requirements naturally have grown as have those of other organisations. The Board is just able to fulfil its obligations for the purposes for which it was set up. The Liberal Party raises no objection to these Bills and wishes them a speedy passage. 
-I present the following petition from 22 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Australian citizens place great value on their freedom to choose their own doctor in all aspects of medical care. 
That we believe in a doctor's freedom to provide a personal service based on personal responsibility within a system based on quality rather than quantity, as opposed to an impersonal service in which doctor and patient lose their identity. 
3 ) That proposals to change the existing health scheme are unacceptable to the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
A petition in identical terms from 193 citizens of the Commonwealth was presented by  Senator Jessop  and a petition also in identical terms from 25 citizens of the Commonwealth was presented by  Senator Davidson. 
Petitions received. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. I refer with concern to the expressed intention of the Postmaster-General's Department to provide post office services at Outer Harbour in Adelaide only at such times as passenger ships are berthed there. As Outer Harbour is South Australia's front door for shipping, will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General to reconsider his decision and maintain at least those services currently provided, in keeping with the State's provision of a world-class terminal? 
I want to express concern about the quality of water which flows down the River Murray bearing in mind that a city with a population of 300,000 people will be established along what is now to us in South Australia our major water supply and our lifeline for water supply. Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  indicate just what measures are being taken to ensure a good quality of water flowing down the River Murray below this complex is maintained when it is so vitally important to South Australia? We have behind us now the expectation of the Dartmouth dam. But the quality of water itself has become of paramount importance even now. The supply of water is taken 8,000 miles by reticulated mains from the River Murray in South Australia and must be in such a condition that it can be used with confidence in the metropolitan area of Adelaide, and by people throughout the State. This matter of water quality is of vital importance to us. What is being done to ensure that water quality will not be adversely affected by the building of this complex? 
My Acting  Deputy President,  with respect to the matter to which  Senator Rae  has just referred, I should like to say that the fault lay with me to a large degree. I was speaking at the time and I did not do what I had intended to do.  Senator Rae  had a misunderstanding at that moment, as did 1. 1 also apologise for what did occur at that time. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
Thank you,  Senator Laucke. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to dire forecasts in today's 'Australian' of a major slump in export meat prices consequent on world-wide uncertainty about the shortage of fuel for ships? Is any action being taken to ensure the continued regular movement of meat to our major markets? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for the Media. I refer to the very unsatisfactory television reception at Angaston, in the Barossa Valley, and the concern of residents at the lack of action to remedy this situation. I ask the Minister whether he will take up this matter with the appropriate authorities with a view to providing such booster or other facilities as will ensure reasonable reception. 
Does the Senate propose to deal with these Bills in a cognate debate? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! I am advised that the Senate has already agreed to deal with the Bills in a cognate debate. 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  The main purpose of the principal Bill, the Apple and Pear Corporation Bill 1973, is the establishment of an Apple and Pear Corporation to replace the former Apple and Pear Board. The other Bills with which we are dealing are related to this central Bill, and the variations which they propose are concerned directly with the change of title. The Bills do not embrace changes either to the stabilisation scheme or to export charges, but they do dovetail in with the central Bill. 
The Liberal Party Opposition is not opposed to these Bills, or to the establishment of the Corporation. In general terms the setting up of the Corporation as provided for in the legislation is in line with the reorganisational proposals which were well advanced in the tenure of office of the former Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Ian  Sinclair. It is now high time- indeed, it is past high time- in view of the serious problems and disabilities facing the apple and pear industries, that firm action is taken to provide better bases for the wellbeing of the industries. The problems of these industries have been accentuated by the entry of the United Kingdom into the European 
Economic Community and by the uncertainties they face in relation to the European markets generally. Further, there has been greatly increased competition in these markets, both from locally produced and exported fruit. In the past this market was our main market. We are confronted with increased freight charges, and in fact with difficulty in obtaining ships. Further- I believe this is paramount- these industries have had to face up to the adverse effects of currency revaluations. So these industries are facing real problems. 
The proposed Corporation, which is given very wide powers, has ahead of it a major work better to facilitate the distribution of the apple crop and the pear crop both in Australia and overseas by means of promotional activity. Powers are being given to the Corporation to charter its own ships, where necessary, for the export of the fruit. Overall we find that a very businesslike approach is being adopted in relation to this Corporation. Before the last election the Australian Labor Party had spoken of the proposed Corporation having its grower representation elected by the growers. It is found that this is now not to be the case; this will be a matter of ministerial appointment. I regret this. There are to be 4 grower representatives on a Corporation of nine. Whereas in the past the Apple and Pear Board did have direct representation by growers from each of the States, this will now not apply in relation to the Corporation. This proposal has caused some discontent, naturally, in my own State. I am sure the same situation applies to other States in which direct representation has not been given to the growers. This means that they are not in the position of strength that they would like to occupy. 
Although we say we do not oppose the legislation, we do criticise it as regards the composition of the Corporation. I propose to move an amendment to the motion 'That these Bills be now read a second time'. The amendment further emphasises and reiterates the concern that we feel in relation to the condition of the industry and in relation to the tardiness with which revaluation compensation has been made available to the industry. The amendment I propose to move is in these terms: 
At end of motion add-  but the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to provide- 
immediate financial assistance by way of proper compensation for loss inflicted on exports in the 1973 season by revaluations of the Australian currency; 
adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates; 
a guarantee to growers for cost of export for the current season, and 
elected representation of growers to the Corporation as promised by its spokesmen prior to the last election. ' 
In regard to the currency revaluation aspect, it would be churlish on my part not to refer to the $5m which has been made available following the expression of deep concern from this side of the chamber in regard to the adverse effects on the fruit-growing industries, particularly the apple, citrus and pear growing industries, caused by the removal of the sales tax exemption from aerated waters which contain at least 5 per cent pure Australian fruit juice. We emphasise again the urgent need for payments to be made to the growers who, through no action of their own, have been caught in the grip, as it were, of financial situations whereby their income has been cut by the amount of the revaluations made. This has gone on since 1 97 1 and it has been the major cause of the financial difficulties that have beset fruitgrowers. 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Marriott)-  Order!  Senator Laucke,  will you circulate a copy of your amendment? Are you proposing to move it now or have you already moved it? 
I formally move it now. I move: 
At end of motion add-  but the Senate deplores the failure of the Government to provide- 
immediate financial assistance by way of proper compensation for loss inflicted on exports in the 1 973 season by revaluations of the Australian currency; 
adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates; 
a guarantee to growers for cost of export for the current season, and 
elected representation of growers to the Corporation as promised by its spokesmen prior to the last election.' 
The  ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the amendment seconded? 
-I refer now to that part of the amendment which deplores the failure of the Government to provide adjustment of the stabilisation scheme to provide for increased costs and freight rates. On the one hand there is the unavoidable effect of revaluation; on the other hand, in a very competitive world fruit market which allows very fine margins of profit, there are increased costs incidental to fruitgrowers. These are caused again from factors quite apart and quite separate from anything that the industry could do about them. In relation to freight rate increases, I believe that there will soon be an increase of another 17 per cent in freight rates. All of these increases are biting into what is, as I have already said, the extraordinarily fine margins on which fruitgrowers operate. If there is a sector of the rural industries which requires sympathy and urgent consideration, it must surely be the fruitgrowing sector. It has suffered much more severely than any other part of rural industry. Increased costs and freight rates and the effect of revaluation have all had a very severe impact on the ability of growers to remain viable. Surely in the world at large, which requires more food from year to year, there should be promotion and salesmanship which will enable markets to be found; but in the process assistance should be forthcoming in areas where it is required to meet the inevitable costs in those areas. 
There is no guarantee for the costs of export for the current season. No amount has been allocated to assist in this. Representatives of growers on the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation are to be appointed by the Minister from names provided to him by the Australian Apple and Pear Growers Association. We object to that, and we express the objection in this amendment. The powers of the Corporation, as I said before, are very wide. They will cover the processing and marketing of apple and pear products. The Corporation will have power to charter shipping. The Corporation will also be able to undertake a research program to promote the industry through researches into new products to see where greater efficiency can be achieved. All these aspects are good, but I am concerned that while the Government may guarantee to the Corporation moneys borrowed by it, there is not an undertaking that the Government will guarantee such borrowings made by the Corporation. So the onus falls right back on to the growers themselves who have 4 representatives on the Corporation. Their fruit is handled completely by the Corporation and financial obligations are entered into on their behalf, but the Government does not say that it will guarantee loans which are obtained by the Corporation. It seems to me that this is the liability of the growers themselves. I feel that this aspect of the matter ought to be looked at more closely by the Government to ensure that the onus is placed on the Government, via its Corporation which is directly controlled by the Government. The growers ought to be released from this obligation over which they initially would have no control. I support the legislation with the amendment that 
I have added to the motion that the Bills be now read a second time. 
The Liberal Party Opposition does not oppose the Sewerage Agreements Bill which provides for agreement between the Commonwealth and the States for a program to eliminate the backlog in the provision of sewerage. The amount of $30m is being loaned- not given by way of grant- to the States for the current financial year. It is under a loan arrangement of 40 years' repayment. It will carry interest at the current long term bond rate. I point out that before the last election the Parry now in power stated that grants would be made towards eliminating the sewerage backlog in Australia. Today we find that it is to be loan money which will be repayable by the States. The initial undertaking given by the Labor Party was: 'If you elect us we shall give you grants for these purposes.' When the crunch came it was - 
It was stated in the policy speech of your leader. I shall read it to you as quickly as I can. It was said in these words: 
A Labor Government will immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth grants in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their areas by 1978. For subsequent financial years, the Commonwealth Grants Commission will investigate and recommend the size of Commonwealth grants required to see the program through. 
It is another broken promise. I understand that the first suggestion to the States was for a shorter repayment term at 8.5 per cent interest, which would impose upon the State governments, and through them on local government authorities, an excessive and very high cost in providing that which we should have throughout our metropolitan areas and in the country also- decent sewerage systems. The amounts to be provided to the various States varies from $ 1 1 .2m for New South Wales to $ 1 m for Tasmania. We welcome the provision of moneys for this purpose but I deplore the method by which it is being done and the breach of the promise originally made as to the way such funds would be provided. 
-Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs give an assurance that the pistol that was in the possession of  Mr McLeod  at the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last Thursday was not loaded? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Were the bullets removed from the pistol carried by  Mr McLeod  before or after the arrival at the office of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs of  Mr Charles  Perkins? 
-Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Prime Minister of the possibility of trouble at the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last Thursday after the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs had been alerted on Wednesday night of such a possibility? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. I ask: Who made the decision that the only charge against Robert McLeod in respect of the incident which occurred at the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last Thursday would be a charge of possessing an unlicensed pistol? Why were no charges for more substantial offences then laid? 
I direct my question to the Attorney-General. In view of the Prime Minister's statement yesterday that the circumstances surrounding the McLeod incident last Thursday might involve a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice or result in a miscarriage of justice, and in view of the concern generated in the public's mind by information thus far elicited in this and in another place, will the Attorney-General make every effort to have the findings of the inquiry which has been instituted made available to the Senate early next week? 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. What is the present position in relation to the future of the third commercial television channels in Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane? Can the Minister dispel the concern and uncertainty now prevailing within the television industry in relation to these stations? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. I refer to the increasing threat of salinity to the viability of the River Murray irrigation areas which is due largely to the rising level of ground waters beneath the irrigation areas and the resultant increase in sub-surface inflows back into the River. Can the Minister indicate what control measures are being applied to ensure the continued productivity of these areas, especially in South Australia which is at the receiving end of an increasingly heavy accumulation of salt content particularly from irrigation areas up river? 
When  Her  Majesty opened this Second Session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament she said that she was particularly pleased to perform personally an important constitutional duty as Queen of Australia. The occasion was not a cold and formal one; it was rendered warm, magnificent and unforgettable by the unique qualities of this great lady who fulfils the arduous duties of the monarchy in a way which indicates her dedication and her selflessness. It is indeed inspiring to see the way in which  Her  Majesty attends to the innumerable duties of her office and the way in which she performs those important duties. In a difficult era of change and challenge there is this solid base of monarchy at the foundation of our system. I hope that we will always remember that and maintain our heritage, because the system of the monarchy and the legislature has given us the best system of government that exists in the world. I wish  Her  Majesty well personally and in the discharge of her most important duties. 
I believe that the matter of greatest concern to the Australian people at the present time is the inordinate degree of inflation now in existence. We can have all sorts of ideas on the betterment of living standards and social services and the advancement of the nation, but unless we have our economy soundly based we cannot achieve those things. In her Speech Her Majesty said: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. 
If I may say so, they are anaemic words and not the sort of words that one can take and understand in the way in which Her Majesty expressed pleasure when formally opening this Parliament. They are to be taken as a statement of Government attitude or assessment. 
I believe that in our economy these days we have an unreal buoyancy and that in fact we are living in something of a fool's paradise. The economy is not soundly based. We are seeing huge amounts of public funds being outlaid these days. We have an increase in Budget expenditure at a time of obvious danger in relation to inflationary conditions. The increase has been of the order of 20 per cent, which in the process is leading to greatly augmented income or revenue to the state by means of income tax. We note from the increase in revenue of some $ 1,500m over the previous year- revenue from income tax will increase from $4,000m to $5,500m- that actually the Government is financing its projects very heavily on what is not real production; it is just the figure which comes through in this unreal situation of extreme inflationary conditions. I believe that if the Government had set out after taking office to promote inflation it would have done the very things which we note have been done. In the first instance, there has been this huge escalation in public spending. We want to have moneys expended in many areas, but there is no need for undue haste in creating demands in the public sector which in themselves not only affect the actual cost to the public sector but in the process also have a real impact on the private sector and on the economy generally. 
The immigration program has been steadied down or decreased at a time when there are very big demands on industry to produce those things which are now in very short supply. We have a situation of high prices and short supply. The Government's immigration policy has not assisted the sound development of our economy. No damper at all has been placed on inordinately high wage demands. I firmly believe that the highest wages which can be paid should be paid. That is and must be our basic and strong objective. But it is no use having high levels of wages which will not buy the things which they are meant to buy. It is in this way that inflation hurts so deeply the ordinary citizen- the man on a fixed income, the pensioner and the superannuant. Inflation is indeed an onslaught on the ability of the citizenry generally not only to acquire the things they require in their working lifetime but also to provide their requirements for their days of retirement. 
The removal of subsidies in the rural sector almost certainly will aggravate this inflationary condition. In areas in which productivity can be increased there is a reduction in prices and in costs. It follows that if one can parallel productivity with costs then one is in a situation in which prices can be reasonably maintained and will not escalate out of all proportion, thus avoiding a situation similar to the present situation in which we have an inflation rate in excess of 14 per cent per annum. The reliance on inflationary wage increases to finance Government expenditure is creating an unending situation. Measures will have to be taken which are effective in arresting this trend. It is a very human matter. It is not one which does not affect the individual. It is a very intimate problem to everyone and it should be the Government's first objective to solve the problem. It should not just say that it recognises that inflation is a most urgent domestic problem and that it will continue its efforts to contain it. The problem has to be faced with greater resolution than has been shown to this point. 
We are very dependent in Australia on our own supplies of energy that is, of fuels. Had not the incentives been offered at the time that we had very little of our own energy resources, we would not have had the Bass Strait petroleum supplies. The incentives provided for exploration and later for exploitation of discoveries have placed us in a very favourable position of part self-reliance in relation to our petroleum requirements. But it is not good enough just to have that situation. We have to be looking for further supplies, particularly as we note this very sudden world shortage of petroleum products and the holding to ransom of those countries whose economies are dependent upon imported oil supplies. I regard the removal of incentives for oil exploration as one of the really detrimental activities of this Government in relation to a most urgently required basic commodity. 
The proposed removal of the superphosphate bounty can be referred to as an indication of lack of understanding of what is helpful in keeping down prices within an economy. Here we have the proposed removal of an input subsidy- not one at the end of the line which does not take into account efficiency or anything like that. It is of assistance in the first instance to the producer to produce his cereals or meat-vegetable protein or animal protein- whatever crop he may be growing. Most of our soils in Australia have a great requirement for the addition of superphosphate. The removal of a subsidy that is now costing the Government about $57m a year will be reflected in higher costs in other directions and will result in a lower income to government from real production. It will not be a fictitious production but one which is related definitely to the production of commodities. It is this sort of attitude which gives me very deep concern when 1 view the present very unreal situation, as I assess it, with our economy. 
I believe that defence is more and more concerning the people of Australia. The rundown in our defence Services has occurred to such an extent that one fears for the ability, should the need arise, to retrieve a situation which has existed for some time and which would be indicative to other nations to whom we would look for assistance in time of difficulty. I think that we are very silly to regard ourselves as being quite immune to the possibility that covetous eyes could be cast upon us. I think that as a matter of national self-respect and in order to earn the respect of those who in the past have been of great help to us we should show our preparedness to do our part in regard to the defence of our country. 
Without detracting in any way from the expressions given by  Her  Majesty in her opening speech to the Parliament, I state that I strongly support the expression of opinion embodied in the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  to the motion that the Senate take note of the Address-in-Reply.  Senator Withers  moved that:   the Senate is or the opinion and regrets that Her Majesty was not informed by the Government of the true position in Australia in that it has- 
His first point was: 
Created an intolerably high level of inflation and has taken no effective steps to stop it; 
The second part of his amendment was: 
caused uncertainty and its management of the economy is creating social inequities; 
There is certainly a very great lack of confidence which is increasing in our commercial and industrial areas generally. There is uncertainty as to what this Government will do in the pursuance of its socialistic policies. When uncertainty prevails, there is no progress; there is retrogression. 
The third point made in the amendment moved by  Senator Withers  is that we regret attempts to change the federal system of the Australian Constitution by diminishing the responsibility of the States. I understand that it is the policy of the Government to centralise greater power in Canberra and in the process to decrease the powers of the States. It wants to set up regional areas of local government with direct financial assistance from and overlordship by Canberra. These policies are all undermining the system of federation. We would not be here today as a federation if the States in the first instance had not ceded certain powers to the central government. The States which have sovereign powers themselves, are entitled to retain and, I think, should retain powers that they have exercised since the beginning of federation. They should not have those powers diminished by rather back door methods such as giving, money direct to local government, not providing finance through the State Parliaments. 
We have seen the use of grants made under section 96 of the Commonwealth. I know that the Government to which I had the honour to belong made such grants. But the use of such grants has also tended to quite a degree to take away power from the States unless the grants have been allocated to State authorities for their distribution. There is this background of intrusion, even through the grants system. But the intrusion has been nowhere near that which would be the case in bypassing State parliaments completely and giving grants direct to local government. Without doubt, there is merit in the fourth point in the amendment relating to injured rural industries and the communities they support. Currently, we are enjoying good prices for rural commodities. Overseas demands are extraordinarily strong and prices are high. 
There are some rural industries, I quite agree, which have not enjoyed the prices which have applied to others. But across the board for rural industries, the income these days, because of better overseas markets, is certainly greater than it has been for some years. But this has not been brought about through any action of the Government. It has been brought about by world demand. Anybody who claims that the prices now being received from overseas markets are the work of the Government is making an untrue statement. That is simply fallacious. This is a matter of world supply and demand. Rural industry is not being enabled to take advantage for the time being of better prices and so obtain better capital background and liquidity. The Government has taken away certain forms of assistance which were not excessive by any means but were of value to rural industries in difficult times. That assistance could now be of greater value in a consolidation of finance and an ability to withstand the fluctuations of overseas markets and so on which one can certainly expect. 
The rural industry, in the main, certainly receives better prices for its products now. But rural industries have not had very much time since the better world prices have prevailed to be rid of longstanding indebtedness. This is a fact. I do not think that, with a realistic appraisal of the situation, people can claim that they have suddenly got out of the red into the very good blue. I deplore the action taken precipitately to reduce assistance to rural industry because there has been a spurt of betterment in overseas markets generally. I refer now to a very important aspect of farming. In fact it concerns the whole gamut of business activity right through to the individual. Interest rates at their present level, apart from adding to the inflationary spiral, are presenting problems to the businessman, the farmer, the home buyer, and the man who buys a refrigerator for the house or anything else on hire purchase or time payment. These people are paying an extraordinary high amount for the money they borrow before they start, as it were, to meet their commitments in the longer term. The overdraft rate today is between 9.5 per cent and 10 per cent. That figure has not been altered for many years. I cannot recall when this was at any time the base of the commercial world. When we have a 9.5 per cent overdraft rate and a flat rate for hire purchase which is almost double, we have interest rates which are absolutely killing to the man in the street. 
Hire purchase has its place in the scheme of things, in enabling people to obtain certain assets and also to provide employment in factories through demands which are created. But with interest rates at the levels at which they are set now an impossible burden is placed on the person who, by hire purchase, can obtain things that otherwise he would not have the ability to obtain. 
I am very concerned to note what I see as an endeavour on the part of the Government to have the electorate accept that inflation is here to stay, that it can be lived with, that it is unavoidable and that it is imported. In my opinion this is a very insidious attitude for any government to adopt. It is a dangerous attitude. If those propositions are accepted we would never have other than a continuing dog-chasing-tail situation. Only when we get down to firm and sound business management can we expect to have a reduction in the inflationary spiral and a decrease in interest rates also.  Mr Deputy President,  I congratulate you personally on your election to that office and also as  Chairman  of Committees. I wish you well in your tenure of office. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Is it a fact that the Government, through the Department of the Media, proposes to spend $1,250,000 of taxpayers money on what would appear to be nothing less than blatant Australian Labor Party political propaganda in the promotion of its policies and would this constitute a grave misuse of public funds were these moneys to be so expended? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that the Department of Aboriginal Affairs has been chartering aircraft in South Australia for officers to fly to Aboriginal settlements and missions for the purpose of encouraging Aborigines to claim unemployment benefits? If so, does the Minister regard this advocacy to be in the best long term interest of the Aborigines concerned? Are training schemes being set aside? Are the Aborigines being condemned to be recipients of handouts without the prospect of being equipped to take up gainful employment? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to a statement by  Sir John  Crawford that Australia is in danger of moving into an adverse balance of payments situation? In view of the high standing of  Sir John  in world financial circles- he is senior adviser to the World Bankand in view of his assertion that our net surplus position arising from capital inflow may disappear within the next 12 months unless the Government changes its attitude to foreign investment, is the Government giving consideration to lifting or varying the 33- 1 /3 per cent deposit requirement on capital inflow? 
 The Opposition raises no objection to the proposals in the Fisheries (Papua New Guinea Boats) Bill 1974. It follows legislation, which received royal assent on 30 October last year, enabling a smooth transfer of powers to Papua New Guinea which became self governing the following day. The Bill before us will enable Papua New Guinea to administer its own fisheries legislation and the Government of Papua New Guinea wishes to do this as soon as possible. There is a question as to whether all that is sought in respect of the transfer of fisheries powers is embraced in this legislation. It is the desire of the Government of Papua New Guinea that its boats be in the register of that country. It desires that its boats be subject to its laws and be treated in the same manner as other foreign boats, in Australian waters. There is no objection to this Bill on the part of the Liberal Party and I understand that that applies also to the Country Party. 
On 13 December last this legislation first came to the Senate. I recall that on that occasion  Senator Durack  spoke on the measure, deploring the haste with which it was brought into the Senate from the other place after it had been passed there the previous day. The Government sought a quick decision. The Bill was given its rightful place. It was given short shrift in the Senate and, on the motion of  Senator Condon  Byrne, the debate was adjourned until the first sitting day of this session. I find the legislation quite mind boggling. If given effect to, it will constitute the most authoritarian and dictatorial assumption of power ever undertaken by the central government in the history of this country. Australia has developed a strong, well-balanced and advancing economy through the initiative, drive and efficiency of free enterprise. Because of the background which so clearly shows the successful attitudes adopted by the previous Government, there has been mounting activity in both petroleum and mineral search and development. Through income tax the Treasury has been receiving at least half of the profits made after certain concessions have been granted in respect of capital outlay in certain mining investments. In addition, the companies have paid sales tax, payroll tax and other indirect taxation. In all, the taxes tot up to between two-thirds and threequarters of the returns of the industry generally. But that was not good enough. The state has to do it. 
I am completely opposed to this legislation which is socialistic in the extreme. It aims to move the control of the mineral and petroleum industries from the State governments to Canberra, and ownership from the private sector to the public sector. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech, said that the Government was not unmindful of the contributions by overseas countries to our development by the provision of capital, technology and commercial opportunity. But he insisted that Australia would be the primary partner henceforth in such enterprise in our country. That is to say, the concern of the Government is not that the individual Australian is the investor but the nation as a whole. There is all this song and dance about the desire to return the Australian natural resources in their entirity. The primary partner will be the State itself, not the individual, the company or private enterprise. It is sheer outright nationalisation. In countries around the world where nationalisation has been pursued as a policy in very few instances has it been anything like successful. As a matter of fact some of the strongest economies in the world have become very weak through this sort of policy. 
I am utterly committed to a policy whereby government provides the framework in which the initiatives, the ingenuities and the abilities of persons and companies can operate and in that way retain the verve, the go and the drive which lead to the success which has marked the growth and development of our economy since we became a federation. The Minister, in his second reading speech, said: 
It was the policy of our predecessors to make their contribution to the search for and development of our petroleum resources by a variety of indirect means including payment of subsidies and special tax arrangements, and to accept the abuses necessarily associated with such a system. 
I refute the suggestion that abuses are necessarily associated with the system which we pursued successfully through quite a period. The Minister continued: 
Our policy is direct contribution by a Petroleum and Minerals Authority, the subject of this Bill. The Government has already announced the termination of the Petroleum Search Subsidy Scheme, as from the end of June 1974 and the withdrawal with effect from early, in May, of the income tax concessions provided by sections 77c, 77d and 78 of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Matching finance will flow through the activities of the new Authority. 
A moment ago  Senator Webster  referred to the great slowdown in exploration for minerals and petroleum in the Australian scene. The removal of the incentives via taxation have in no small way led to this situation. These policies that have been pursued gave us a pretty high self sufficiency in petroleum products. Now we find that the position dramatically has changed in regard to a sustained program of search and development. 
Exploration is in the doldrums. We heard the figures on this a moment ago from  Senator Webster.  Exploration programs are being directed to countries with prospective areas where some incentive for investment is provided. It is quite natural for capital to flow to investment at points where there is an encouragement for such investment and a reasonable expectation of a fair return. The provisions of the Bill apply to the whole continental land mass and extend off shore to the outer boundaries of the continental shelf. In the legislation power is given to the Authority to explore for, recover and refine petroleum and minerals. It will have power to buy, sell and transport petroleum and minerals whether in Australia or elsewhere. The Authority can purchase land and equipment, form companies and subscribe for shares in existing companies. lt will be given a special power to acquire an interest in mining undertakings being conducted in Australia on such terms as the Authority deems fit. The Authority will take to itself a fantastic degree of liberty and power. 
I sometimes wonder whether this Government is really serious in some of its attitudes. We have never experienced the sheer audacity of proposals such as these in any previous Parliament. The Authority will have the power to enter and occupy land in areas it would like to explore and develop, and in the event of the occupier's withholding his consent the Authority may apply to a Justice of the Peace for a warrant to enter, and neither the owner nor the occupier can raise any effective objection. Should they impede the activities of the Authority they will be liable to a fine or imprisonment. A very vital power will be given to this Authority. It will have the right to declare any area of the Australian continental land mass to be an exploration area by simply publishing a notice in the Australian Government Gazette. This is that vitally important device by which the Authority can take over any prospective or known mineral or petroleum area whether or not it is being prospected, explored or developed by an individual or a company. The Authority will not be subject to State laws or to royalties. There is a complete over-riding of State rights in this legislation as I see it. 
I refer now to the matter of fair and reasonable compensation. Clause 45, sub-clause (2) of the Bill states:   . . this Authority is liable to pay to the person (including a State) who was the owner of the petroleum or minerals immediately before it becomes or they become the property of the Authority such fair and reasonable compensation . . . 
I understand that under most State laws the minerals are not the property of the owner of that area until the minerals are extracted. So we have a situation of extreme difficulty as to whether compensation could and would be paid promptly to the owners of land through the provisions of this legislation. 
In every respect I regard this legislation as being totally unacceptable to a reasonable attitude towards our petroleum and mineral resources. It is not in accord at all with the accepted powers that exist between the States and the Commonwealth. Here we have an overriding authority to take over and to nationalise what is a fundamentally important consideration of any country- its energy resources. The Liberal Party Opposition is adamantly opposed to this legislation and we will not have a bar of the proposals put before us. We most certainly will oppose this Bill. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the governmental direction to the Lawn Tennis Association of Australia not to send an official team of 2 women players to South Africa later this year to compete in a Federation Cup selection event that is described by the Association as a multi-racial event. On what criteria does the Government determine its policies in relation to Australian participation in international sport? Is the sign of the hammer and sickle a prerequisite of or of major assistance in ensuring governmental acceptance of such participation? 
-Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware of the serious incidence of fruit fly strike in the metropolitan area of Adelaide? In view of the consequent dire threat to the State's commercial fruit growing areas arising from the Adelaide situation, the persistent but only partially successful endeavours of successive South Australian governments to contain and eliminate this scourge and the increasing danger of fruit fly being introduced into fruit fly free areas through growing interstate traffic, will consideration be given by the Federal Government to mounting and financing a national drive for the eradication of fruit fly? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Does an acceptance of an offer of office constitute simultaneous installation into that office? I would like clarification on that point. Further, in regard to diplomatic appointments, is there not a requirement of swearing in? Has this been done in  Senator Gair's  case up to the present time? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I refer to a statement made yesterday by the Minister for Transport that approval had been given to the Australian National Line to purchase 2 bulk ore carriers from a German shipyard. Were the Whyalla shipyards in South Australia given an opportunity to tender for the supply of these ships? If not, will the Minister explain why such opportunity was denied to those shipyards? 
-Can the Minister for Repatriation inform the Senate of the number of exservicemen recipients of service pensions who have been called before review boards of the Repatriation Department in the last 12 months? Further, of the total number of ex-servicemen so called, can the Minister say how many pensions have been reduced or removed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In replying to a question asked earlier this morning by  Senator Jessop  concerning the Stuart Highway and the recurrent isolation of Alice Springs arising from flooding of the Highway, the Minister stated that there would be a complete revision of highway planning in the next Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement period. Does the Minister's reference to this revision mean that recommendations made by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads in respect of South Australian grants have not been accepted by the Government? Is it not a fact that, whereas for the period 1969-74 South Australia received $129m, the Bureau has now proposed a grant of $205 m for the 1974-79 period, an increase of 59 per cent compared with the national increase of 108 per cent? As the Minister has raised a sense of hope that we will have urgent attention given to the Alice Springs road, how does he reconcile that statement with this huge reduction of the proposed allocations to South Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs received urgent messages from the  President  of the Northern Territory Legislative Council and the Legislative Council member for Alice Springs,  Mr Kilgariff,  expressing great concern at acts of violence by Aborigines, allegedly inspired by non-Aboriginal radical elements not acting in the best interests of the Aborigines but whose well-being they purport to promote? If so, what action does the Minister propose taking to meet this disturbing and dangerous situation? 
The Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 first came into the Senate on 13 December last after having been passed in the House of Representatives against the wishes of the Opposition on the previous day. The Government sought a quick decision in respect of this legislation when it first came into this chamber and on that occasion  Senator Durack  spoke to the measure. He deplored the haste with which this Bill has been brought in and he forcibly condemned the general concept of the Bill. On the motion of  Senator Byrne  the debate was adjourned. It came before the Senate again and was debated at length on 19 March. On 2 April it was rejected by the Senate. That is the history of this Bill. As I have said, it has been very widely debated and has been decisively defeated in this place. The Government has no mandate for these measures. It never mentioned them prior to the election. The measures constitute the most authoritarian and dictatorial demand for power, in an area of fundamental interest to the States and the well-being of the nation that I have ever noted. 
The Bill aims to set up a Petroleum and Minerals Authority to take control from the States, where authority now resides, and transfer it to the central government. It is centralisation in a most undesirable form. Of course, it is quite in keeping with this Government's mania for concentrating all power in Canberra. Further, it would lead to the transferring of all ownership from private investment and private enterprise to public ownership. This is absolutely in keeping with the avowed intention of socialisation of industry. It is anathema to the Liberal Party and contrary to the fundamental attitudes of that Party and to my own view as to where the interests of the whole community and the economy lie. 
Before the election in December 1972 very little was said by the Labor Party about the plank of its platform providing for it to pursue a policy of nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. My word, that policy was slumbering in the background at the time, but it has been acted upon in a very real way in the last year. But I think that of all the legislation that has been brought before this place for moves into an area of public ownership by the central government this legislation pretty well takes the bun. The Government well knows that we will not accept this legislation. It is in pursuance of its desire to have the country believe that the Senate has been irresponsible in its reviewing of legislation and that it has been frustrating the House of Representatives where the Government has power. In actual fact the Senate has proven to be a most responsible chamber right from the time the present Government came to power. 
We hear a lot of talk about the number of Bills which have been rejected by this place. There has been much exaggeration. The facts are that in 1 973 no fewer than 223 Bills were passed as at the end of the year out of a total of 256 Bills introduced into the Parliament. It has been claimed that this was the greatest number of Bills introduced to a Parliament in any given year. One can say that since the end of last year the Bills which have been rejected have been only repetitions of Bills brought forward previously, and to have only 10 Bills rejected does not constitute frustration. The Opposition would not be worthy of its place as Her Majesty's Opposition were it not to have taken steps which it has taken in respect of legislation for which there was no direct mandate given and no mention made before the election of intention and so on. I believe that this place has shown an extraordinary degree of patience and tolerance in its reviewing role of legislation introduced by the Government. 
It is typical of the Leader of the Government to say that is one of a stack of them. This has been his attitude all along on all occasions when there have been divisions in this place in respect of certain Bills. On every occasion when the vote could have been taken it has been taken for one purpose. It has been taken for a purpose of window dressing in respect to the number of times that the Government has been defeated on the floor of this place. That is an undeniable fact. 
It is a record of which I, as a member of this place, am  proud.  Out of the 256 Bills introduced only 10 were defeated. If those 10 Bills were categorised it would be seen that three of them were electoral Bills, two were constitution alteration Bills- legislation which in any event should have awaited consideration by the Constitutional Convention- and two were two health Bills. The conciliation and arbitration Bills were later passed with amendments. Consequently Bills relating to only 5 subjects were defeated. There have been more recent rejections but this is the general position. 
There is no holding up of any salary in respect of the Governor-General. It is worth while for the people of Australia to know what the functions of the Petroleum and Minerals Authority will be. They are to explore for minerals on the Australian continental land mass and elsewhere, to recover minerals from their natural site on the continental land mass or from any other place, to treat minerals for the purpose of extracting metals and other substances in Australia or elsewhere, to refine metals and other substances obtained as a result of the treatment of minerals in Australia or elsewhere, to crush, screen or otherwise treat or prepare for sale coal and construction materials in Australia or elsewhere, to buy and sell minerals, refined substances and manufactured materials and substances, whether in Australia or elsewhere, and to transport minerals, refined substances and manufactured materials and substances on the Australian continental land mass and between Australia and other countries. What a wide range of functions for a State authority to undertake. 
When one looks at the particular powers of the Authority one finds them hair-raising. There is an ability to purchase land, lease land, to sell or otherwise dispose of land, to purchase or take on hire plant, machinery, equipment or other goods, to dispose of plant, machinery, equipment or other goods - 
Sure, but I am emphasising the wide scope of interest and activity proposed for this Authority, activities which can best be left to private enterprise, as has been proven through the years. Australia at present is in a not so strong position. I am sure that at the end of 1967 we had a degree of advancement economically that was the envy of the whole world. It was not achieved through socialistic programs, but was achieved through the initiatives, the ingenuity and the drive which comes from encouragement of private enterprise. The Authority is able to enter into agreements on such terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit with any person or body for or in relation to the performance of work, the provision of services or the doing of other things. The Authority will be able to acquire, upon such terms as it deems fit, an interest in a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried on in Australia or elsewhere and can acquire any undertaking other than a mining undertaking that is being or is to be carried out in Australia by another person or body and so on, but at the terms and conditions as the Authority deems fit. 
What is the Authority? It is to be a body of 5 men consisting of a chairman who is to be appointed by the Governor-General, the secretary to the Department of Minerals and Energy, an executive member and two other members. These 5 men are to be entrusted with this fantastic area of responsibility which is one of the most important aspects of governmental or national interest, that is energy. In my opinion this Bill is horribly conceived and should again be rejected. I propose to move an amendment to the second reading of this Bill. I understand that it has been circulated. I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That' insert, 'the Bill be deferred till this day 6 months because: 
1 ) this Bill was defeated in the Senate on 2 April 1974, which is only one week ago; 
this Bill is introduced not to allow for further consideration and debate, but simply for statistical purposes; 
the Government introducing the same Bills on a number of occasions on the one subject matter, seeks to mislead the Australian people as to the actual number of matters opposed and defeated by the Opposition. The Senate is part of the legislative process of this nation and it should not be abused and used as a scoreboard by the Government for political purposes. 
I refer again to the rejection by the Senate in a most responsible way of a very small number of Bills out of the number introduced to this place. The reintroduction of this Bill is only further window dressing by the Government to hoodwink the public in relation to the Government's claim that this chamber has been a frustrating and impossible body of legislators who are not allowing the Government to govern. That is completely wrong. This is summed up in the amendment which I have moved. I trust that this chamber will again reject this legislation as I have here proposed. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Is the amendment seconded? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. It follows on questions asked earlier in respect of the retrenchments of employees at the Hendon works of Philips Industries in Adelaide. Has the Minister seen a very forthright statement made by the  chairman  of Philips Industries yesterday that these retrenchments were due directly to tariff cuts introduced by the Government? In view of the extreme urgency of this matter will the Government take immediate action to give the necessary protection to this industry which is vitally important to our State and to the nation? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration: Is it a fact that when governmental announcements are made from time to time giving the number of unemployed persons in Australia, a rider is added indicating that the figure given is exclusive of school leavers? Can the Minister inform the Senate at what stage students leaving school and not gaining employment become recognised by the Department of Labor as unemployed members of the Australian work force? Will the Minister advise how many such unemployed erstwhile students there were as at 30 June last who were not included in the number of total unemployed at that time? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of an acutely held sense of dissatisfaction existent among service personnel based on the Woodside Army camp in South Australia arising from the poor standards of domiciliary, recreational, transport and other facilities now being provided? Is consideration being given to an upgrading of these facilities which would have a beneficial effect on the morale, happiness and efficiency of the men now stationed at Woodside? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is he aware of the significant increases in imports of brandy over the last 12 months? In view of the fact that the ability of the small independent grape grower to dispose of his fruit is directly related to the volume of brandy production and distribution in Australia, will urgent consideration be given to curtailing the volume of imports? Further, will consideration be given to the reinstatement of the original excise differential in favour of Australian brandy as a means of encouraging consumer preference for the local product as against imported spirituous liquors generally? 
I rise to indicate my support for the motion moved by  Senator Wright  disapproving of the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal as tabled in the Senate yesterday. My motivation for supporting  Senator Wright's  motion is the deep concern that I have for the present state of our economy and my fear that were the increases as set out in the review implemented the repercussions in the inflationary spiral would be disastrous. It cannot be denied that we have reached a crisis in our economy at present of a degree that we have never experienced in the history of our country. We talk about restraint. It is said to be necessary by the Government and by my Party. Where is restraint being shown in respect of the recommendations now before the Senate? I bear in mind very clearly the words of  Mr Laurie  Short a few days ago. He said, in effect, that these increases will take the lid right off the cauldron. He said that the sky is the limit. I feel that honourable senators have to be completely appreciative of the repercussions which would flow through the whole of the economy, at a common crisis, to the detriment of those people to whom we feel we should give the most consideration in respect of retention of value in our money. 
Inflation in the June quarter was at the rate of 4. 1 per cent which would equate to more than 1 3 per cent in a year. With that increase in the pipeline there could be an inflation rate of 20 per cent per annum by the end of the year. This is an impossible rate with which to cope. We are living in a fool 's paradise if we think we can embrace a situation such as that and emerge with a viable economy in the world scene. Now is the time for the Parliament to give a lead and try to halt the rate of inflation which could cripple every aspiration of the Australian people. Our economic history shows that we have done very well through the years. There have been ups and downs. We have had our difficult times. We have had periods of inflation to a degree but never to the extent which now exists. 
I do not believe in unemployment at all. I am afraid we are heading for an unemployment situation which we have not had for a long while. I am disturbed immensely when I hear that organisations such as General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd are now wondering whether it is worthwhile to continue producing cars in Australia. I wonder where the devil we are going. I wonder how we will maintain our work force in employment in Australia. We have to be responsible and assist everybody in the community. If we are not responsible we will cause enormous harm and our prospects for future generations could be very seriously adversely affected. 
As a matter of fact it is at a very low ebb. The stimulus which would be given to inflation were these recommendations put into effect would be enormous. I am horrified at the prospect which lies ahead of us unless there is a sharp pulling in of the reins and a lead given to ensure that there will be ability to meet the situation which is now seemingly out of hand. I intend to quote from no less an authority than the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  In his statement on inflation a few days ago he said: 
I say without exaggeration that the Australian economy now faces a highly dangerous situation. 
That, coming from  Mr Crean,  is worthy of note because it was not long ago, in fact just before the general election, that there was no suggestion of any imminence of great strife, struggle and difficulty ahead. It was said that inflation would be contained and that we were heading towards Utopia. Now the Treasurer is saying that we are facing a highly dangerous situation. The Treasurer focused on two key elements. He said: 
. costs are now rising very fast. In 1973-74 average weekly earnings rose by 16 per cent. They are now rising at over 20 per cent. But such figures have nothing to do with the real purchasing power of those wages . . . We have a wages explosion which is damaging everyone, and wage earners not least. 
Should our first concern not be to ensure the weaker in the community a fair place in the sun to protect them? What is being done now is detrimental to the interests of those people. They are the masses of Australians. The Treasurer continued: 
The second key element in our situation derives from the rest of the world. 
We have heard quite a lot about the importation of inflation to Australia. I can see that certain of our imports now bear a cost increase arising from the oil crisis in the world. The inflationary spiral in Great Britain, Japan and other countries has been accentuated by the demands made on those countries with respect to the price of their energy. But Australia is not affected in the same way because our energy costs have been held down pretty well. It is only the effect of that oil crisis reflected in the cost of imports that introduces a degree of inflation to Australia. Our inflation is based on costs and in costing it is unavoidable to say that unbridled wage demands have led to very great cost increases. 

 Mr President, you know that I am not opposed to payment of the best wages that the nation can afford. I firmly believe in that principle. I have no desire to see wages held down to figures which do not give the recipient a decent place in the sun. I always have been opposed to low wages and in favour of the best that the country and industry can afford to pay in order to ensure that the recipient obtains the things that he or she desires. We must realise that in the last 12 months no less than $ 1,000m has been written off the real value of savings banks deposits in Australia. And whose money is that? It belongs to the ordinary people in Australia. This has acted to the detriment of those people; it has done them real harm. Therefore tonight as we consider this suggestion of taking for ourselves quite a big increment in our remuneration as well as considering a big increment for others, I say that it would be most irresponsible and would hurt the very people that we all seek to serve, the general good old Aussies in the whole community, if we accepted. It is our duty at this stage not to set an example which would lead to exorbitantly high further demands which would lead to a situation of depression. We have our recollections of the depression years. My recollections of the 1930 depression are dim, actually, but I know the aftermath of it. Today we face a challenge. There is a danger to our whole democratic system in Australia if situations arise of the severity of those which were experienced in those bad years. Revolution could occur here. 
It could. I am not exaggerating when I say that because people expect to maintain the standard of living to which they are entitled. If the economy is allowed to reach such a stage that there is hopelessness all about, then we have set the pattern or the background for major upheavals in our society as we now know it.  Mr President,  I view this matter very seriously. I have real and genuine fears about where we are heading at the present time because of this inflationary spiral. I believe that tonight it is our bounden duty to support  Senator Wright's  motion about not taking the suggested increases at this time. The determination ought to be disapproved and I support  Senator Wright's  motion. 
I respond by saying that our record through the years of containing inflationary increases is such that I believe that the present situation would not have arisen had other attitudes been taken on this very vital question. Until recent days there was no acknowledgment that inflation was a threat to us. It is now admitted. I hark back to the first Budget introduced by the Labor Party Government in 1973 when an increase of no less than $2,000m, or a bit more, was added to the Budget of the previous year and a Budget of $ 10,000m became one of more than $ 12,000m, a 19 per cent increase. That was the first movement of a pretty active economy heading into an inflationary situation. That public expenditure at that time seemingly was a good thing. I guess that the Australian Labor Party, coming into power after 23 years in the wilderness, was subject to a rather over-enthusiastic desire to do many things too quickly for the benefit of the people in accordance with promises and so on but, in the process, this inflationary situation which now bedevils us has become the nation's biggest threat at the present time to the continuation of development and the provision of good living standards for everybody. I refer to such things as better education, hospitalisation, social services and so on. Before resuming my seat I want to refer honourable senators to these words of the Treasurer:   the halting of inflation is the necessary first step to the active resumption of our policies of social and economic advancement. 

 Sir, we must halt inflation, in the words of the Treasurer, in order to do the things which the people of Australia expect and which they were promised. I support  Senator Wright's  motion. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform me of the present position in respect of the provision of all-weather landing strip conditions at the Kingscote airport on Kangaroo Island? Is the Government still insisting on local government acceptance of responsibility for the aerodrome, including the runways? If so, on what grounds of equity in respect of the provision of air travel facilities in Australia can this attitude continue to be sustained? Further, is consideration being given to the provision of all-weather airstrips at Coober Pedy and Andamooka, where the residents have been seriously inconvenienced because of an inability to maintain essential communication with other centres, particularly in relation to urgent medical needs? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it not a fact that the Australian Government's recognition of forceful incorporation of the three Baltic states into the Russian empire is clear ratification of Hitler's 1939 agreement with Stalin? May it be taken that, by its action, this Government has firmly committed itself to a principle that was hitherto anathema to all Australian governments and the Australian people, that is, that might is right in international affairs? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom. Human Rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Chairman, I seek further elucidation of this aspect. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has said that price fixing is to be outlawed forthwith. There are in industry associations which operate under a uniform price level; these associations in many instances have been in existence for many years. Does the AttorneyGeneral say that those associations will be disbanded immediately, that there is to be no time for a recasting of their operations as associations? I would like that to be clarified because this clause appears to me to be singling out certain industries for which price fixing will be outlawed forthwith, that no time at all is to be allowed for those given industries, which may operate through an association of common interest to have any discussions as to how they can vary or cease their operations. 
Before this matter is finalised, I wish to express again my concern at the lack of clarity as to what constitutes insignificant restraint. Sub-clause (3) of clause 45 states: 
A contract, arrangement or understanding is not in restraint or trade or commerce for the purposes of this Act if the restraint has a slight effect on competition between the parties to the contract, arrangement or understanding and on competition between those parties, or any of them, and other persons as to be insignificant. 
I would like to ask the Attorney-General whether he can be more explicit as to what would constitute insignificant restraint. Can it be put in a numerical setting? The wording is, in my opinion, so airy-fairy as to give rise in the minds of businessmen to a complete lack of clearness as to what could constitute an illegal act. Surely this could be made more explicit than as it now appears in these very wordy lines in this amendment. 
I present the following petition from 72 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the right of self-determination belongs to every nation, big or small, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have been deprived of it for 30 years by the Soviet Union. All Australian Governments for 30 years have refused to recognize the Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, but now understand that such recognition has been granted. We the undersigned petitioners wish to express our concern and dismay and humbly ask that it be retracted. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Young  I do not propose that this petition be read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Minister for the Capital Territory approved the issue of valuation notices for rating to lessees in the Kingston and Griffith areas on the basis of potential for redevelopment? Can this move be interpreted as the introduction of a new basis for valuations in the Australian Capital Territory? Does it not constitute a major departure from past rating practice based on comparable values as determined by sales? Is this system to be applied to other areas in the Australian Capital Territory? 
In a situation of price control for a given commodity, when an association abides by the price set by the State price fixing authority in a given State, would that be regarded as an association price fixing arrangement to be outlawed immediately under this legislation? 
-I present the following petition from 46 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We bee the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I address a question to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that New Zealand, which is normally a 100 per cent purchaser of Australian wheat, has purchased 13,500 tonnes of United States hard red winter wheat, which will be the first United States wheat to enter New Zealand for decades? What were the circumstances surrounding Australia's loss of that $2.25m sale? Is it a fact that the Australian Wheat Board had the requisite type of wheat available but could not take advantage of the order because of the policies and actions of Australian and New Zealand maritime unions? 
If so, what action does the Government contemplate taking to ensure that Australia retains the very valuable New Zealand grain market? 
I would like strongly to support  Senator Greenwood  's remarks. In practical business the matter of issue of an authorisation could be of major importance. In this case there is provision for an authority which can so disturb normal business transactions as to render great injustice and hardship to the organisation concerned. This is one instance in which I believe that if more staff are required in the interests of practical business they should be employed. I support  Senator Greenwood's  remarks very strongly because I feel that he has put his finger on what is in actual business practice something of great importance. 
Amendment negatived. 
My question is addressed  to the Postmaster-General. Can the Minister indicate whether the old Post Office building at Streaky Bay in South Australia will be made available to local bodies interested in the preservation of the building for community activity purposes? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned citizens of Australia of Baltic origin wish to express their concern at the announced intention of the 
Australian Government to recognize the annexation of the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. We submit that these once free and independent States were occupied by force of arms and beg the Senate to disallow such recognition as a matter of principle. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Young,  I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the six million people of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, occupied and unlawfully annexed by the Soviet Union, have been deprived of freedom, human rights and civil liberties and are therefore unable to express their will, we the undersigned Australian citizens of Baltic origin humbly petition the Senate to express its moral support to the rights of the Baltic States to freedom and self-determination. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a petition similarly worded has been presented by  Senator Jessop,  I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 
I present the following petition from 86 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter be raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by the Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As petitions similarly worded have already been presented by  Senator 
Baume and  Senator Grimes  I do not propose to move that this petition be read. 

 - Mr President, I thank the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  Although I realise that on Budget night it is traditional not to deal with any further business after the Budget Speech has been read, the matter presently before the Senate is of such great moment that I believe I should say a few words about it. It concerns the committee system within the Senate which has developed in recent years and which has added greatly to the stature of this place. I can see an insidious attack being made on, and the sowing of seeds of destruction of, the committee system, through the proposal enunciated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  I hope that the Senate will carry the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Withers.  In my opinion it is vital not to reduce the powers that have been conferred on our committees up to the present time. 
I notice in the proposal advanced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate that no further matters are to be referred to any of the committees which are to be re-established. The committees will deal only with those matters which are now in the pipeline. That in itself indicates that we are heading towards the destruction of what has proved to be the most progressive move that has been made by this place in generations. Although I realise that there is a desire not to have a long debate on this matter tonight, I wish to express my point of view and to indicate my deep concern about the seeds of destruction that are inherent in the proposal advanced by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I believe that it is incumbent on all of us, irrespective of our Party affiliations, to express our point of view on this matter. Although it has been said that this motion which has been moved by the Leader of the Government in the Senate is Government sponsored, I hope that there will be a realisation of the high importance of Senate committees being conducted by members of this Senate and not being submerged in another system. That is why I wish to add my comments to the excellent exposition of the need for such a system, as seen by those who sit on this side of the Senate, as given by  Senator Withers.  I trust that the amendment that he has proposed will be accepted in toto. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. To what position has the former Australian Labor Party member for Riverina in another place been appointed? What is the annual salary attached to the position? To what travelling and expense allowances is he entitled? Where is his office situated? What staff is attached to him? Briefly, what are the duties he is supposed to perform? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has a directive been given to the Northern Territory police to refrain from arresting Aborigines on charges of drunkenness and disorderly behaviour arising from that condition? If so, is the Minister aware of the deep concern of responsible people in the Northern Territory, both European and Aboriginal, at the great disservice being done to the general Aboriginal cause by the directive, which can be seen only as an act of encouragement to lawlessness and one inimical to aspirations for achieving the rightful place of respect and acceptance to which Aboriginal people are entitled? 
I rise briefly to deplore the attack which  Senator McLaren  has made on  Mr McLeay  this evening. He is obviously playing politics in this matter. Every criticism made by  Mr McLeay  in respect of the Monarto complex is justified, and on the basis on which  Mr McLeay  made his criticisms there is no reason at all for anybody to object to his expressing an attitude about how he assesses a given situation.  Senator McLaren  has sought to infer that in South Australia the first thoughts towards decentralisation emanated from a Labor government. How utterly ridiculous that is. If we trace decentralisation in South Australia over the years we find that there always has been a sound basis for decentralisation. 
I am speaking of facts. South Australia has done a magnificent job in respect of decentralisation based on firm, sound industrial and business premises. Firstly, we in South Australia had no source of power. We were being held to ransom by the coal miners in New South Wales. We were rationing power in our State. Leigh Creek was developed and the Port Augusta power houses were built. That was decentralisation. We gave a local base for a system of reticulating power throughout South Australia. Power was reticulated to the smallest farms in most settled areas on the single wire earth return system, and  Senator McLaren  knows about this. 
That was the policy of our Party and it prevailed. We had a base for power generation in South Australia. If we trace the history of decentralisation in South Australia under Liberal and Country League governments we will see emerging a picture which is very sound and good. It is not an artificial basis for progress. We had our power bases on Leigh Creek and Port Augusta. Power provided from those areas formed the basis for the development of Elizabeth and Salisbury and of the motor engineering industry in Adelaide. We decentralised out of immediate Adelaide into the Salisbury and Elizabeth areas. That was a satellite town and was a magnificent decentralisation of a congested metropolitan area. We look for resources which we can use. The south-east, with its forestry areas, is ideal for timber mills. There are pulp mills at Millicent. This is decentralisation based on natural resources which exist in the area. That is firm and viable decentralisation. 
We look to Whyalla. The Iron Knob deposits and the Middleback Range give us our steel furnaces and our shipbuilding. Again this is decentralisation in a very firm and purposeful way. 
I am referring to decentralisation in a way which I admire and which I regard as having bases which are necessary if we are to have a really viable system of population spread over a State. So, we look at the Whyalla set-up; we look at Port Augusta; we look to the south-east; and we look to the Murray. Liberal governments encouraged the production of cardboard boxes, cans and so on to service another very important industry- the fruit canning industry. So, we had a base of natural resources to work from and in South Australia through the years we achieved decentralisation- not for a year or two and not with an unhappy sort of situation of conscription towards a given area, but due to a voluntary desire of people to go to the areas because things were being offered which would give a decent way of life and assure a sound economic background. 
I speak tonight because of the implication contained in  Senator McLaren's  attack. Again I say that I do not admire the introduction of personalities into an attack. The honourable senator should point out his criticism in broad terms. He should not attack a person. Decentralisation in South Australia has been far and wide. It is of a nature which will allow for further decentralisation of services and so on. I am proud of what has been achieved through the years in decentralisation in South Australia by Liberal governments, to the political detriment of the Party. Do honourable senators realise that? The Liberal Party in South Australia was big enough to give away pretty secure political areas. 
No, this was long before the Liberal Movement. We as a party in our State were big enough to decentralise irrespective of the political prospects for ourselves thereafter. We are proud of what has been achieved in our State. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. My association with the Kapunda Rifle Range Club in South Australia has brought home to me the problem which the members of that range experience in respect of the cost of ammunition, a problem which I understand is common to all such organisations throughout the Commonwealth. As rifle range activities embrace defence, sport and recreation aspects, and as some years ago clubs were favoured with issues of certain amounts of ammunition by the then Department of the Army, will consideration be given to reinstating this system of giving encouragement and assistance to these clubs? 
In speaking to this Budget the Government deserves all the criticism and, indeed, the censure which is embodied in the amendment moved to the motion of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that the Budget papers be noted. Every word of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  (Senator Withers)  could be substantiated. The amendment moved by  Senator Withers  states: 
The Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia's economic crisis, in that: 
unemployment is permitted to grow and the prospect for school leavers is prejudiced; 
inflation is accelerated; 
existing poverty is ignored and new poverty is created; 
personal income tax is increased forty-five per cent; 
living standards will be lowered; 
f) private enterprise is stifled; 
government power is further centralised; 
individual incentive and thrift is penalised; 
a double tax is levied on estates; and because the Government: 
1 ) has made the Budget a socialist vehicle to intensify the attack on the States and break down the free enterprise system; 
believes the absurdity that the Government can spend without people paying or can build without people producing; and 
has preached private restraint but has threatened its achievement by its own Government extravagance- 
Every word of that is, in my opinion, irrefutable. The question uppermost in the minds of responsible and thinking people is where in the world is Australia going economically. One hears this question everywhere. There is an air of real concern and fear at the economic course this Government is taking. The concern, the fear and the lack of confidence stems directly from the Government's disastrous economic policies which have spurred inflation on to the impossible levels now existent. The Government has euchred our previously sound economic base which was set to provide full employment, and rising living standards in real terms. 
It is past high time that the Government realised the futility of its pet theory of so-called democratic socialism and got back to some basic business principles- one of which is that one does not spend money before one makes it. One should nuture, encourage and develop the real base from which wealth is created. That base is without a shadow of a doubt, free enterprise. Much has been said about the difficulties besetting us as being of overseas origin. It is said that we have imported them and that we have had unavoidably thrust upon us our inflationary conditions. This is not right. To a degree we have felt the effects of inflation in other parts of the world where the energy crisis has led to the exorbitantly high prices being paid now for petroleum and fuel generally. In our imports we have the reflection of these increased costs. But here in Australia we have not had that basic reason which has generated inflation in most other countries. So, the idea that it is not our fault and that it has been thrust upon us is quite ridiculous. It is not sustainable. 
I think that our inflation is fundamentally due to the ineptitude of the Government in assessing what our own economy can afford in governmental expenditures. Our troubles began when the Labor Government, in its first Budget in 1973, increased its expenditure from $ 10,000m to $ 12,500m- an increase of 18.9 percent. It was an increase at a time when we had our inflationary situation held at about 4 per cent. But there were forces latent in the economy then which had to be watched carefully. The injection of the extra $2, 500m into public expenditures at that time sparked off what has now become rampant inflation. The most recent Budget of $ 16,500m, which is an increase of some 32 per cent over the previous Budget, is only further spurring this horrible situation of inflation. This huge Budget we have before us now is not being provided from sound and real productivity but is largely fictitious money arising from bloated Government revenues derived largely from the inflated incomes which are now prevailing. But they are only figures. It is not that there is a real collateral or matching of wealth which creates the figures which now form our Budget. It is hard to believe that in a couple of years our economic position could so deteriorate. We had about $4,200m in credit in our overseas trade balances when this Government came into office. This has now been halved and it is being eroded at the rate of approximately $200m a month. One can see under present trends that we will be bankrupt in overseas balances in the not too distant future. 
Our share market has suffered an enormous fall this year. The fact is that the market has halved in less than 6 months. It is a fall of 1929-30 proportions. This is of tremendous significance. It means that about 4 million investors in Australia have seen the value of their investments halved. It means also that the value of practically every superannuation fund and every life assurance policy has been seriously affected. This Government has generated a real fear in the minds of the people. There is no confidence in the Government's direction of the nation's affairs. There has been too much intrusion, in my opinion, into the affairs of private enterprise. It cannot be overstressed that free enterprise has given us our prosperity. It provides 75 per cent of jobs in the community. It creates the community wealth and tax revenue for the sort of social welfare programs we all want to see. 
It is worthwhile noting the words of one of our most notable businessmen,  Sir John  Dunlop, the  chairman  of Colonial Sugar Refineries Co. Ltd at its recent annual meeting. Here we have one of the best business brains in Australia saying: 
This system of private enterprise, of which CSR is a part, has succeeded, as no other system in history has succeeded, in producing material abundance. It is the prime force which provides food, clothing, shelter, education, medical services, necessities and luxuries on a scale undreamed of a few centuries ago. Those societies which have chosen to leave the production of goods and services largely in the hands of private individuals and companies also enjoy a degree of personal liberty and political freedom that has been rare in history. The changes that are happening about us, particularly those changes in people's ways of living, in their attitudes and values and aspirations, are to a large extent brought about and made possible by heightened material standards and a wider share of increasing wealth. Expression of these attitudes and aspirations is largely possible because of that personal liberty and political freedom inherent in private enterprise. 
I concur wholehearedly in that statement. It is plain commonsense. This Government has shown itself not to be a friend of private enterprise. It is engrossed in attaining its stated objective- the democratic socialisation of industry, production, distribution and exchange. In the process we find ourselves in the shocking mess we are in now. Heavens above, the result has been shown in those countries where democratic socialism has been thought to be the way to Utopia. The great United Kingdom is in its present predicament largely because of the addiction of successive governments there which have espoused the cause of socialism. It now is in a very sad economic situation. Here the Government seemingly is intent on following the same pattern. 
Lest it be thought that I am criticising from a biased point of view I refer to a report of a statement by the Premier of South Australia a few days ago. He made a special plea for aid to South Australia in the present economic difficulties generally. This newspaper report states: 
The Premier . . . has called for special Federal consideration to protect S.A. against any downturn in the economy. 
He said yesterday that in the interests of national efficiency and regional growth, the Federal Government could: 
Provide a 'sufficient' level of tariff protection for S.A.'s most vulnerable industries. 
We in South Australia are particularly sensitive to adverse effects in the electronics industry, and the motor vehicle and household appliances industries. The present economic climate is such that we in South Australia are being hit as perhaps no other State is being hit at the present time, bad as it is generally. But in South Australia we are particularly sensitive to the sort of economic climate we are now experiencing. In that newspaper report the South Australian Premier said that the Commonwealth Government could provide compensatory subsidies or support to industry already in, or planned for, outside major population centres. He asked also that the State Government be provided with special money to reduce the added costs of industry in fringe areas. He also said: 
We have cause for anxiety in the short, or even medium, term. 
The Premier also was reported as having said: 
Australia was going through a period of strain, with rising unemployment, strong cost and import pressures on local manufacturers, inflation and restricted lending. South Australia had not been too badly off so far but Australia 's unemployment was rising and the pattern of recent years was that S.A. had suffered disproportionately. 
The South Australian Premier said that the situation was such that there was cause for deep anxiety. The Labor Premier of that State has been criticising and pointing to the disabilities the economy is now suffering. That criticism comes from a source which would rather seek to allay the fears we are now experiencing, not forthrightly to condemn. 
I want to make a brief reference to the Government's attitude to a very important industry in South Australia. I use this example because I think it is typical of the attitude towards many industries. I refer to it particularly because that which has occurred since this Government came to office is so different from that which it promised would be the situation. Before the 1972 election,  Mr Dunstan,  the Premier of South Australia, as  chairman  of the Australian Labor Party Federal Election Finance Committee, wrote to producers of wine and brandy in South Australia seeking funds for his Party. I have no objection to anybody seeking funds for his Party. That is quite all right. However, in that letter to the producers he said: 
The only solution that will guarantee prosperity for the wine industry and the many thousands of growers who supply it, is complete abolition of the excise and its nonreplacement by a sales tax or any other imposition. You have already spent many hundreds of thousands of dollars on the wine tax and on collecting the information required by the Customs and Excise Department. The election of a Federal Labor Government will save you these costs in the future. 
At the time there was a 5c a gallon excise on table wines. The promise was that those charges would be abolished and that no alternative charge would be placed on the industry. But what has happened? From the situation of 5c a gallon there now are such imposts in the form of brandy excise as will act to the detriment of the industry in our State in a very serious way. Because of the huge increases in brandy excise, sales have fallen by some 25 per cent. 
The disastrous effect of the Government's complete disregard for the industry can be seen in the clearance figures for Australian brandy for the period 1 September 1973 to 30 April 1974 which show a decrease in clearances of 19.16 per cent in comparison with the corresponding months in 1972-73. The present deterioration in releases indicates that sales have fallen by 50 per cent. Loss of production, together with no action being taken by this Government to protect the industry against imports of large quantities of cheap overseas brandies- imported brandies are not made in the way Australian brandies are made, so far as source, maturation and so on is concerned- means that we are facing a situation wherein 20,000 tonnes of grapes will not be processed as they were processed 2 years ago. This will be to the detriment of the growers, the makers and the distributors and it is the result of a breach of promise by the Government. That is how this industry has been served. No thought has been given for its wellbeing in respect of the determination of tax on wine stocks. This matter is of vital importance to what is, or has been, a major family organisation business. The system of collecting taxes, one based on stock at selling values, not on the cost of production as shown in a balance sheet, is crippling. The whole background of this industry has been greatly weakened as a direct result of this Government's actions. 
As we will have an opportunity to discuss many aspects of this Budget in debates on various Bills emanating from it, both in the Senate and in the Committee of the Whole, I do not propose to keep the Senate any longer now in discussing the Budget generally. I desire to express my feelings and attitudes towards the overall question of the Budget, its effect on our economy and, via the economy, on the people. It is a sad story that what is coming from the Labor Party's policy is inherent in and is the basis for the Budget. I warmly support the amendment. I condemn the Budget which is now before us because it is so detrimental to the interests of our nation. 
I direct this question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the Minister's expressed concern at the Japanese stop-go approach to purchasing wool and meat from Australia- described by the Minister as 'just not acceptable'. I appreciate the Minister's efforts to arrive at a trading situation with Japan beneficial to the meat producing and wool industries with continuity of supply being a basic consideration. I ask: Can the Minister indicate whether there is a real prospect of some form of rationalisation of purchasing arrangements with Japan? 
I address a question to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that the European Economic Community is dumping surplus beef stocks on the currently few remaining normal Australian export markets at cut-throat, uneconomic prices? Has the Australian Government protested to the European Economic Community agricultural officials at this alleged practice? If so, what has been the reaction to such protests? 
In addressing my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate I refer to the inordinate rise of 5.4 per cent in the consumer price index for the September quarter- the biggest since 1951- and to the present inflation rate of 16.5 per cent which can be projected to 23.5 per cent within a year on present inbuilt forces. Does the Minister still claim that the present deeply disturbing situation is due to international influences? Is not our present condition the direct outcome of domestic economic policies pursued by this Government? Will the Government put aside its ideological theories now proven to be impracticable and, in the urgent national interest, put into effect the realistic measures advocated this week by the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  as the practical means of combating Australia's economic problems? 
I wish to say that I am not moved at all by the explanations given by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  a moment ago. I fully support the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle  on the basic principle of allowing the Commission reasonable freedom in the discharge of its duties. The Commission could well become a docile servant of Government policy if the words are left in the Bill as is sought by the Minister. Then the Commission could make, promote, distribute and exhibit films only with the approval of the Minister. That would put the Commission in a completely servile role in my opinion. It would be hamstrung to a degree far in excess of that which should apply in a medium such as the film industry. Therefore, I believe that as we have parliamentary accountability through the Minister in due time there will be sufficient restraint on the Commission without making the Commission so subservient to the 
Minister. The Commission should not be run almost as a Government department dictated to directly by the Minister. I fully support the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a most salutary and arresting article by John Hallows in today's issue of the 'Australian' concerning the serious downturn in the profitability of Australian trading enterprises in real terms because of the effects of inflation? Has the Government considered giving credence in taxation procedures to inflation accounting which would reflect the action of rising prices on a company's true balance sheet position? Is it not a fact that under present conditions of inflation profits are being overstated especially by inadequate depreciation provisions and by treating stock appreciation as profit and that many Australian manufacturers are rapidly heading for a situation where they will be unable to carry on for sheer want of cash, leading to inevitable growth of unemployment? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture what are the most recent estimates for the wheat crop? To what extent has the incidence of red rust affected crop prospects throughout Australia? 
This legislation is indeed of supreme importance to our society. I have listened with great interest to the debate this afternoon and have admired the tenor of calm and critical reference to the legislation. I pay tribute to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs for having done in a very short time a terrific amount of work on this highly important legislation. But I must say that I am deeply concerned at the implications which go with and are part of family law legislation generally and, in particular, that legislation which is before us now. There are two distinct schools of thought, as I see them, on this highly important matter. On the one hand we have people who strongly emphasise the need for abolishing the concept of matrimonial fault or matrimonial offence. That is just what this Family Law Bill does; it provides for a separation of a couple for 12 months as absolute grounds for a divorce. There are people who are forceful in their praises of the concept of no matrimonial fault and of having the separation period of 12 months as the only ground for dissolution. They say that this is good divorce law and that the time has come to rid the law entirely of the 14 grounds for divorce which are now standardised in Australia with the advent of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1 959. 
It is true to say that the present divorce procedures are, to many people, too complicated, too expensive and totally outdated. It has been argued that the application of the existing law has caused much abuse, much intrusion into one's private life and a great deal of hardship and bitterness. One could very quickly give instances of those things. The time has certainly come when we have to have a serious look at the existing state of affairs relating to divorce, the existing legal provisions, and the actual experience of those who have decided to break their marriage relationship. We all know that marriages break down. We know that the number of people seeking divorce is increasing. We all know that the area of family law has become the object of increasing concern to the whole community. Therefore a thorough contemplation of the Family Law Bill is very necessary, but to look at the proposed Bill solely from the viewpoint of divorce is, I think, irresponsible. 
I refer now to the other group which looks at the Bill in the light of what the Australian community understands by marriage and the family. Section 69 (2) of the Marriage Act 1961 defines  marriage ' as follows: 
Marriage, according to law in Australia, is the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others, voluntarily entered into for life. 
The United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, article 23(1), with which we have declared ourselves to be in agreement, says that the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State. If we accept these 2 definitions, I cannot but have serious doubt about the consequences of enacting the Family Law Bill 1974 as it has been presented to us. It will certainly have to be amended in areas which, in my view anyhow, must be varied better to ensure a continuation of our society as we now know it. Clause 26 ( 1 ) of the Bill-without this the Bill becomes meaningless- introduces irretrievable breakdown as the sole ground for dissolution of marriage without the necessary consent of both parties. This means that whatever one of the partners to the marriage says is sufficient for a court to give a divorce, and the only procedural formula necessary is described in clause 26 (2) which simply states that the court must be satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application. 
Those who take the marriage contract seriously and those who verify the importance of a stable family life within society point to these facts: The Bill is not related merely to divorce. The Bill makes major changes in the structure of the existing marriage. It changes marriage from a contract between 2 parties for permanent union, determinable in law only by the intervention of a State, to a contractual union determinable at any time by one party subject to a 12 months procedural wait. This Bill's divorce aspects do not deal with marriage as now understood but deal with the breakdown of a new kind of marriage and change all existing marriages into the new kind of marriage to which I have referred and which can be broken up within 12 months on the say of one person. It is more than divorce by consent or deregistration by consent because one party to the agreement is capable of terminating that agreement, and the Bill implies that the state has no say in the matter of dissolution of marriage. The court of the land must grant a divorce if one party says that the marriage has irretrievably broken down and shows that they have been separated for 12 months. There are no objective tests of breakdown. 
The Bill also changes relations within marriage itself which society has so far accepted. It is the law that the husband has the duty to support his wife. A wife has no legal duty to support her husband. On these concepts marriage in the Australian society has been built, and from them spring much of the laws which relate to property rights, to testamentary disposition and so on. Clause 5 1 of the Bill says that a party to a marriage is liable to maintain the other party, to the extent that the first mentioned party is reasonably able to do so and the extent to which the other party is unable to support himself or herself adequately. This is what I am perturbed about, because this clause removes from the husband his legal duty to maintain his wife. This has been a basic principle. I may sound as though I am talking at a level which is not in keeping with a very modern attitude towards the independence of people, even within the marriage set-up, but fundamental to our society through the ages has been the principle that the husband is responsible for the wellbeing of his wife and his children. Now we find this is to be pushed aside and the wife is to have imposed upon her the positive primary legal duty of maintaining herself. It imposes on a wife a positive legal duty to maintain her husband in certain circumstances. It imposes on a husband a legal duty to maintain his wife only in special circumstances. 
The second portion of clause 5 1 relates to the maintenance of children who have not attained the age of 18 years. The whole matter of maintenance is based on need and ability and not on responsibility and paternal care. I can see that this will cause a major change to the situation which we have come to accept in Western countries as the basis of our society. The family is the centre of our way of living, and I can see more and more that this will be broken down unless some amendments are introduced to the Bill. I shall be seeking to move amendments in the Committee stage which will the better ensure that in the first instance there is provision for more than just 12 months' separation as the sole ground for divorce. There has to be greater consideration given to children under 18 years of age. This could well call for an amendment to clause 26 of the Bill which would increase the period of separation to 3 years in the case of a family in which there are children under the age of 18 but retain the period of 1 year where the children have been brought up and are over the age of 18 years. That is just an indication of an intention to propose an amendment to clause 26 of the Bill during the Committee stages of the debate. 
This Bill does not simply update or simplify and cheapen divorce proceedings. It changes fundamentally existing marriages, continuing marriages and the family which develops about those marriages and, as I have said, our whole society. These facts, I think, are in themselves serious and will have far reaching consequences which lead me to view this Bill with doubt and with trepidation. It is true that the Family Law Bill does attempt to improve reconciliation and counselling procedures. I am all for that. It is also true that it imposes upon the parties to a marriage a legal duty to maintain their children until the children are aged 18 years. The Bill provides also for separate representation of a child before a court under clause 44. It clearly states, with respect to the custody of, guardianship of or access to children of a marriage, that the court shall regard the welfare of the children as the paramount consideration. But maintenance and custody decisions issued by the court cannot take into account irresponsible parental behaviour on the part of a husband or wife because the Bill itself eliminates the present concept of matrimonial fault which is very often the cause of irresponsible parental behaviour. 
So if one weighs the arguments for and against the proposed Family Law Bill; if one takes into account the fact that the majority of people have not been in a position to study the Bill and do not have a clear picture of the implications of the Bill; and if one has serious doubts whether the Bill promotes marriage and the family as stable institutions guaranteeing the healthy nurture of children, one cannot but have feelings of grave doubt with respect to the enactment of this Bill in its present form. 
I believe that family law should at all times be beyond any reasonable doubt of benefit to the members of our society. The Family Law Bill certainly will benefit those who wish to break the marriage relationship in a speedy and convenient manner but it does not benefit those who seek the legal protection of their marriage relationship and their family and who are prepared to do their part by living up to individual and communal responsibilities. I understand that it is anticipated that an amendment will be moved to have further consideration of this Bill in the Committee stages deferred for a time. I shall be supporting that motion because I feel that it is necessary when considering legislation of such wide importance, the ramifications of which go so deeply into the structure of society, that every person who is now alert to the contents of this Bill in its present form should have an opportunity to discuss with honourable senators further the clauses of the Bill with a view to amending the legislation so as it will ensure to the best possible degree the retention of what has been so basic to us through the years. 
I have indicated in broad and general terms my attitude to this legislation. I felt it was my duty so to do. I look forward to the ensuing debate and further discussion. I hope that this will not take place quickly and precipitately but after due time has been given to allow all persons in the community who are interested in this legislation to indicate their points of view. Again I say to the members of the Committee who brought down the 2 reports, the interim report and the main report, that they did an enormous job in a short while. They considered and reported on the matter in 35 days, from the time when the reference was first given to them. The Committee was granted an extension of time on 1 7 September to 18 October, or thereabouts. The Committee did a very fine job based on the evidence presented to it. I do not take the credit for that away from the Committee at all. But I do think there is room for further amendment to this legislation before it is acceptable to many of us. 
I present the following petition from 26 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said BUI does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Customs and Excise. It concerns the rather sad dereliction of the age old adage 'in vino  Veritas'.  Has the Minister's attention been drawn to Press reports of wine frauds revealed in France and Italy with alleged recourse to the making of wine from dregs of pressed grapes and cane or beet sugar? As the Australian grape growing and wine making industries are suffering from heavy importation of brandy, some of which is allegedly of similarly suspect origin, and in view of the desirably stringent regulation and certification requirements applying to the genuine Australian product, will the Minister ensure that all imported brandy conforms completely with our set standards? 

 - Mr Chairman, am I competent at this stage to refer to an intention that I have to move a motion in respect to the placement of certain items in the Appropriation Bills, a matter which has been referred to in the report of Estimates Committee C? 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we have examined the Family Law Bill and substantially support the provisions therein. 
That the Family Law Bill takes into account the changing roles of women in modern society. 
That the amendment to the bill recommended by the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee will ensure that the rights of women who play the traditional role in society will be protected, as will the interests of the children. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Family Law Bill be debated and passed as soon as possible. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I appreciate very much the gracious action of the Minister in allowing me a minute or two to complete what I was saying about this highly important matter. When my time had expired there was no move to grant me an extension of time so I could not proceed. I thank  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack for his expression in respect of this matter. There were 2 relatively small matters in the 1974-75 Estimates which we are now considering which were included as an annual service in the Bill which the Senate may not amend. One related to an act of grace payment to the Australian Government Advertising Advisory Council and the other to a grant-in-aid to the British Commonwealth Youth Program. Although the matters were small they served to remind the Committee that no action had been taken on the recommendation that it had made in November of last year in respect of referring this matter for consideration by the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. Whilst dealing with the problems associated with the interpretation ofthe 1965 compact I would raise again for the Committee's consideration the appropriateness of placing the Estimates for Parliament in the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). Honourable senators will recall that in 1964  Senator Murphy  expressed the view that Parliament is not an ordinary annual service of the government. In fact he said: 
It may be ordinary; it may be annual; it may be regarded as a service; but it is not a service ofthe government. 
The Committee of Government members in its 1965 report agreed with this view and recommended that 'appropriations for the purposes of Parliament should not be included in the Appropriation Bill for the ordinary annual services of the government'. This evening I mention that to the Committee as something worthy of note now. These are matters of profound constitutional importance affecting, as they do, the powers of the Senate, and as such I believe that they merit the consideration of all honourable senators. At the appropriate time I shall move for reference of this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
In view of the very drastic reductions in the clearance of brandy in the last 12 months and bearing in mind that brandy production is a very important outlet for grape production, there are fears in the industry at all times because of past experience that there should not be ready release of production of grapes. This is a major industry in Australia but one which fears for the future. I ask the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  whether in light of the reduced clearance of Australian brandy in the last 12 months he will look at the situation. It was said before the 1972 election that the remaining excise of 25c on wine would be removed and that no alternative taxation would be imposed on the industry.  Senator Hall  has just interjected that the Premier of South Australia knows all about that. He was the man who promised on behalf of the Party now governing that there would be no replacement of the charge when the excise on wine was taken off. Now we find that a much more severe imposition has been placed on the industry with the result that the sales of locally produced brandy have fallen drastically. I now ask: In view of the general situation in respect of the industry's future arising from governmental action, will the Government now consider reducing the excise on Australian brandy? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I seek leave to move the motion which I foreshadowed in the debate last Tuesday, 12 November, relating to the report of Estimates Committee C, to refer a matter to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 

The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
-I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The variations disclosed in the reports of Estimates Committees A and C from the practice as announced on 13 May 1965 by the Commonwealth Treasurer that appropriations for new policies not authorised by special legislation would be included in a Bill amendable by the Senate. 
And that the Committee consider and report to the Senate upon the means by which the constitutional right of the Senate to amend proposed laws appropriating revenue or moneys for expenditure on matters other than the ordinary annual services of the Government may be preserved. 
I address this question to the Minister for Agriculture. Is the Minister aware of the great concern among all citrus growers at the delay in renewing the expired sugar agreement under which the Fruit Industry Sugar Concession Committee operates? As SO per cent of the Australian citrus crop is now sold for juicing and as this outlet has a vital stabilising influence on the whole of the citrus market, will the Minister press for the renewal of the agreement as a matter of urgency? 
I wish to ask a supplementary question. 
-I am intrigued by the use of the word 'advise' rather than the word 'direct'. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the bitter condemnation levelled at the Australian Government by Alexander Solzhenitsyn for, in his words, 'forgiving and forgetting the Russian occupation of Eastern Europe in the interests of a closer association with the Soviets'. Bearing in mind the revelations made by the Russian writer in his book 'Gulag Archipelago' of the inhuman oppression he experienced in his own country, will the Government now reassess its attitude towards the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and reconsider its recent action with respect to the de jure recognition of the incorporation of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania into the USSR? 
-I strongly support the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson for the inclusion of the definition of marriage which appears in the Marriage Act of 1 96 1 . 1 concede the legal expressions in regard to the possible need for including the words 'subject to the provisions of this or any other Act'. It is fundamental, in my opinion, to retain that which by common law concept the Australian community has adopted throughout our history- that marriage is, as set out in this definition, 'the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life'. It has been accepted as being not inconsistent with the position of marriage that it may be terminated on certain specific grounds. If this definition is not clearly stated in this legislation marriage may well be defined as the union of one man with one wife until they have separated for 12 months and one has thereupon been divorced. Again I stress that in my view this is basic to the whole structure of society as we have known it in Australia. This definition should be brought into this Bill, subject, as I have said, to the legal requirements suggested by  Senator Durack  and  Senator Missen.  I trust that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson will accede to the suggestion that those words be added to the amendment and the amendment will be included in this legislation. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (2.23)- I am perfectly willing to alter my amendment to insert the words 'subject to the provisions of this or any other Act' and to delete the words ' according to law in Australia '. 
-I wish briefly to say that under this clause there is a strong element of discretion in the court. If the amendment were accepted the clause would read:   the court shall, if it is of opinion that it is in the interests of the parties or of the children of the marriage to do so, advise . . . 
But the discretion is contained in the words 'of opinion'. May I suggest that the use of the words direct' or 'advise' is an extension or a widening out of the discretion which is already inherent in the clause. 
Would it not be simpler to leave the clause as it originally appeared and then move a motion to add the words 'or advise'. It was my understanding that the words in italics- 'but failure to comply with such direction does not constitute a contempt of the court'- were to come out of the clause. Is it not easier to adhere to the original clause adding only the words 'or advise'? Then we have not weakened the clause to a degree which in my opinion makes it meaningless. 
I wish to express my support for  Senator Greenwood  's proposal also. 
That proposed new clause 1 7C, as amended, be inserted in the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Proposed new clauses  17d,  17Eand  17f. 
-I indicate that I am attracted by the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I shall be supporting it. It incorporates fault grounds. My amendment, which I propose to introduce later if this amendment is not successful, sets out quite definitely fault ground as it exists in the Matrimonial Causes Act at the present time. But should the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson be acceptable to the Committee I shall be content at that stage not to pursue my proposed amendment. 

 - Mr Chairman, can I get this matter clear? I understand that the Attorney-General has agreed that if this proposed new clause is passed he will later return with an amendment which will include what  Senator Greenwood  seeks to have incorporated. 
I move: 
In sub-clause (2), leave out all words after 'not less than', insert 'three years immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application, or 12 months if either- 
there are no children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 18 at the date of the application, and the respondent consents; or 
the respondent has been found by the court to have committed one or more of the offences stated in the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1971 as grounds for the dissolution of marriage '. 
In this amendment I have set out clearly the grounds of fault. I will read the clause as it would appear with the inclusion of the words I propose to add and the deletion of the words I propose to delete. It would read: 
1 ) An application under this Act by a party to a marriage for a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be based on the ground that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. 
That sub-clause remains. Then it would read: 
subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than - 
At this point the remaining words of this subclause are deleted and I propose to insert:  three years immediately preceding the date of the commencement of the hearing of the application, or 12 months if either- 
there are no children of the marriage who have not attained the age of 18 at the date of the application, and the respondent consents; or 
the respondent has been found by the court to have committed one or more of the offences stated in the Matrimonial Causes Act 1959-1971 as grounds for the dissolution of marriage. 
The amendment provides that the period shall be 12 months if the children are above the age of 18 years and 3 years if the children are under the age of 18 years unless one of the fault grounds which now appear in the Matrimonial Causes Act- and there are 14 of them defined in it clearly- is proved against the respondent. There is no indecision or difficulty in determining what the grounds of fault are. They are specifically set out in the Matrimonial Causes Act. I have no need at this stage to list them. I point out that in Canada there is a fault ground, in California there is a fault ground, and in the English legislation passed in January 1971 there is only one ground for divorce, and that is that the marriage has broken down irretrievably, but that English law requires that the breakdown be established by the proof of one of 5 stipulated sets of facts which must be proved to the court. So the English law of 1 97 1- that is the most recent legislation- clearly sets out 5 fault grounds. 
This legislation that we have before us, and this provision particularly, would be the most advanced, if I can refer to it in that way, in the western world in terms of easy divorce, as far as I can determine. 1 believe that there should be at base the requirement for a court in the light of certain actions or situations to determine whether a divorce should or should not be granted under certain conditions. The fault grounds in the English law are these: That the respondent has committed adultery and the petitioner finds it intolerable to live with the respondent; that the respondent has behaved in such a way that the petitioner cannot reasonably be expected to live with the respondent; that the respondent has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition; that the parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 2 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition and the respondent consents to a decree being granted; that the parties to the marriage have lived apart for a continuous period of at least 5 years immediately preceding the presentation of the petition. This English legislation is said to be among the most advanced legislation in the world and has been found to be acceptable with these fault grounds incorporated in it. My amendment provides for the retention of the grounds in' our Matrimonial Causes Act in certain conditions. 1 feel that this is clear cut, it is direct, it is definite, and it is protective of the institution of marriage as we have known it through many years, ft does not debar divorce as it provides for rather prompt divorce in certain situations. I regard the amendment as quite a reasonable proposition to put before the Senate for its consideration. I believe it is an improvement on the one ground that was proposed initially- the acceptance of 12 months separation as irretrievable breakdown of marriage. If that ground exists people can obtain a divorce. So I have pleasure in moving my amendment. 
I would like the Attorney-General to elaborate on his interpretation of the words 'household services' which are in his amendment. It appears that there will be a degree of limitation. I would like more elucidation on the real meaning ofthe words he proposes to add. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to a reported statement by the Minister when he was in Rome recently attending the World Food Conference. I quote the honourable senator: 'To the full extent that our present harvest allows we will allocate as much wheat as we can to developing countries facing shortages. ' Can the Minister indicate the extent of present sale commitments of the anticipated 8.5 million tonnes of export wheat to normal outlets? What are the prospects of a further allocation to famine stricken developing countries? 
Are this Bill and the Live-Stock Slaughter Levy Collection Bill 1974 to be debated cognately? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is it agreed that these Bills be taken cognately? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- 
There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
The Opposition supports these Bills. Briefly they extend in the first instance the operation of the livestock slaughter levy for a further period of  2lA  years from 1 January 1975 to 30 June 1977. The levy on slaughtering has been in operation since January 1969. It has the support of the meat producing industry, the processors and the retailers. The proceeds of the levy are channelled to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation for research in connection with the processing of beef, mutton and lamb. The Service and Investigation Section of CSIRO has applied the funds in assisting to promote efficiency and improvement in the operations of meat works over a wide range of activities such as quality control, sanitation, hygiene, preservation, and the processing, storage and packaging of meat. Such services are most necessary to meet the stringent demand on both the local and overseas meat trades. Meat works standards generally have risen admirably over recent years in Australia and form the background for the ability of our meat industry to keep abreast of modern hygiene and quality control requirements. 
I pay tribute to the magnificent contribution by CSIRO to the well-being of the nation in many areas of basic and vital research. In this immediate matter of meat works the work done has been of real significance. As I have said the levy has the support of the meat industry, processors and retailers. I have no desire to take the time of the Senate by speaking at any length. I express complete accord with the proposal in respect of the levy. The Live-Stock Slaughter Levy Collection Bill, which is supplementary to the levy Bill, amends the Live-Stock Slaughter Levy Collection Act 1964-1973 and it adopts the metric weights converting the avoirdupois lb to the kilogram in the dressed weights of cattle and sheep specified in the Bill. Another minor amendment is that which takes note of and incorporates the new name Australian Department of Agriculture which in the past has been the Department of Primary Industry. The Opposition supports these Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without requests or debate. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, there are 5 customs and excise Bills and I was wondering whether the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  desires to have a cognate debate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
We are now considering the 5 customs and excise Bills, the passage of which will not be impeded by the Opposition. The Customs Tariff Bill 1974 establishes in a consolidated new schedule tariff rates and tariff changes implemented by this Government since it came to office. The tariff changes arose from the 25 per cent tariff reduction introduced on 19 July last year and the adoption by the Government of certain recommendations made in reports by the Tariff Board, the Special Advisory Authority and the Industries Assistance Commission. The first Bill also covers changes to the schedule of goods included in the  New  ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement, together with changes resulting from the revised expanding system of tariff preferences for imports from developing countries which came into effect on 1 January this year. 
The Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) is a supplementary machinery measure to the Customs Tariff Bill. The Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) contains tariff changes arising from decisions made by the Government on recommendations made to it by the Tariff Board and the Industries Assistance Commission. It also provides for increases in customs duties on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products which form part of the Government's budgetary program. The Excise Tariff Bill 1974 amends the Excise Tariff Act 1971-73 in accordance with excise tariffproposals introduced on 23 July 1974 and 17 September 1974. The July excise tariff proposals gave effect to measures which increased the excise duties on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products and operates from the evening of 23 July. The September proposals operated from the time of their unfortunate announcement and increased the excise duties on brandy as a further stage in removing the duty differential between brandy and other potable spirits. Customs Bill (No. 2) 1974 provides for amendment of the Customs Act in respect of rules of origin for goods from New Zealand and from developing countries, and valuation provisions for imported goods. 
I want to refer first to the 25 per cent tariff reduction introduced on 19 July 1973. This across the board reduction has sparked off a huge flow of imports. I want to speak this evening in particular in regard to the impact on South Australia of this precipitate action of the Government, which was most detrimental to the long term interests of the industrial base of Australia and, I believe, of South Australia in particular. I am not averse to well considered, selective variations in tariff rates, but a large scale reduction, irrespective of its impact or the condition of the industry to which it applies, is highly dangerous and most undesirable. I believe in reasonable protection for local industry. I do not believe in feather-bedding but in a system whereby there is a progressive hardening- in other words, lesser protection- to ensure that there is efficiency in our secondary industries. 
The industrial base of South Australia- it is pretty narrow- depends very largely on the motor vehicle industry, the manufacture of household durables- that is refrigerators, washing machines, air conditioners, and such likeelectronics and textiles. It is no wonder that the Premier of South Australia has been so trenchant in his criticisms of this Government, when one takes into account the impact of the tariff variations and the huge flood of imports. As I say, a narrow industrial base marks industry in our State. We have today also to meet the burden of an increase in the price of petrol in South Australia. A Bill was passed in the Upper House of the South Australian Parliament today which will lead to the licensing of petrol retailers, which will add about 6c to the cost of a gallon of petrol. 
As we look at the South Australian industrial or manufacturing scene we note that our capacity to produce those goods to which I have referred and on which we are so dependent hinges to a very large degree on our ability to take into South Australia the raw materials, by road transport in many cases- there is a lot of rail transport, too, but road transport does play a very prominent part- and then to send out the finished products mainly back to the populous States of Victoria and New South Wales. An increase in transport costs, together with the disabilities which have been felt and are being felt by the industries in our State, is causing quite a serious problem. Although this is not quite relevant to the legislation before the chamber, I was going to refer to the land tax system in our State, which is a further burden. South Australia is the only mainland State which has land tax. The impact of government policies upon industries and the announcement of the Premier of South Australia that he had to introduce a charge on petrol because he was not receiving sufficient financial accommodation from the Commonwealth add up to a situation which is of great concern for South Australia as it views its industrial background. 
The Bills we are considering tonight put into legal form, as it were, those actions which were taken by this Government and which I believe were ill conceived and precipitate. Insufficient consideration has been given to which industries can stand certain pressures upon them. The Government has failed to realise that unless we do maintain our industrial base in good, efficient heart, with active production in increasing volumes- not decreasing volumes- the horrible employment situation will certainly be aggravated far beyond that which now applies. I say that many of our present ills are due to the Government's policies which are being put into effect by means of these measures we are considering tonight. They are government policies and they give us great concern. 
I refer now to another area of impact on industry in South Australia; it is a serious area. I wish to use 2 instances in my remarks. I have referred already to secondary industry, and now I refer to those sections of rural industry which are concerned with viticulture, wine making and brandy making in South Australia. By way of background, there are 180 commercial wine making complexes in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales. There are 2 public companies which are completely Australian owned involved in this industry. There are 7 predominantly foreign owned companies and there are 171 Australian owned private companies or individuals involved in the industry. So we have a base for decentralised industry. It is a base which at the present time is very strongly privately owned and, in my opinion, it must remain so if it is to be the industry which we have known it to be for so many years now. 
The impact of Government charges on the grape growing and wine making industries has been very severe indeed. To indicate the severity of the increases let me cite figures in relation to excise charged on brandy since the 1973 Budget. Prior to the 1973 Budget- last year's Budgetthe excise on brandy was $3.08 per litre of alcohol, but the 1 973 Budget increased the excise to $6 per litre of alcohol. The mini-Budget which was introduced increased the excise to $8.55. The 1 974 Budget- that is the Budget which is just behind us- increased the excise further to $8.95 per litre of alcohol. In May 1973 a bottle of brandy cost $3.13; in September 1973 it cost $4.23; in August 1974 it cost $5.26; and in November 1974 it costs $5.64. 1 cite these figures because it is many years since a wise and understanding government gave a differential in favour of brandy on which the excise at that time was 30s a gallon. The purpose of that was to give a fillip to the grape growing industry at that time. 
We were suffering from an inability to dispose of our grape production in non-irrigated areas, and particularly in irrigated areas of South Australia. Pools, co-operatives and organisations of a temporary nature were being formed in South Australia. These organisations hired premises on which excess grapes could be crushed, transformed into brandy and that brandy sold in due time. At that time the proceeds would be paid back to the providing growers for their grapes delivered a couple of years earlier. That was the situation in the industry about 18 years ago. The fillip given to the industry at that time by the differential gave that spirit, brandy, an advantage or a better competitive situation in comparison with other potable spirits, particularly whiskey, gin and vodka which are not made from the same background or raw material which cannot be used in any other form but through crushing or drying. The resultant brandy made from those crushings and dryings is a really important part of the industry. The impact on the industry of the huge increase in excise made by this Government in the last 2 years is such that there is now very serious questioning as to whether the general buoyancy which has marked the viticulture industry can be maintained beyond the coming vintage. 

 - Mr Dunstan is most worried, particularly as he is the one who had assured the wine industry of Australia at the time there was a 25c per gallon excise on unfortified wines that that would be taken right off if his Party gained government. He promised to those from whom he sought financial assistance for his Party that there would be no replacing charge on the industry. We then find the situation to which I have referred which is so violently adverse to the whole industry. It is no wonder that the Premier of South Australia hides his face in shame, as he says, when he sees what has been done to the industry that he had guaranteed would be looked after with reasonable care and attention, not have imposed upon it charges which we have found in the past have been so detrimental to its interests. 

 - Mr Dunstan does some things at times which show that he has some degree of brightness. I would not be surprised if he were to say that he will vote Labor at the next South Australian election but that he will vote Liberal in federal politics. The clearances of brandy are down 24 per cent now when compared to a year ago. The stocks are remaining at a high level. In a situation such as this, it is only natural to expect the vigneron not to purchase beyond replacement of stocks which would be required for sale in 2 years time. The Income Tax Assessment Act, section 31a, has a very heavy bearing on the industry in regarding to valuation of stocks. This is making a demand upon the wine-making organisations in a very worrying way, particularly on the individually owned wineries- the impost of taxation based on current values rather than the value of materials and costs to the point of evaluation at the end of the financial year. This new system presents a major threat to the financial stability and liquidity of many of these small companies to which I have referred. It could lead to a reduction in the numbers of large overseas interests taking a greater share of the wine making and distributing facilities of our country. It is a serious matter indeed. 
I know that the allowance of brandy to come into Australia in the last 18 months to 2 years, is of concern to the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy).  The Minister in reply to a question recently asked by  Senator Jessop  said that he realised the effects of the flood of imports on the viability of the local industry. He indicated that there should be a greater charge made on the imported article to assist in the more buoyant flow of sales of the local product than is the case now. I had hoped that a more sympathetic attitude would have been taken towards this industry generally than has been shown by this Government to date. 
I do not wish to speak at length this evening. I have indicated that I am deeply concerned personally about this matter but it goes far beyond that. It is a widely held view throughout the community that the impact of governmental policies which has emanated from these excise and customs provisions has led to the adverse situation which has arisen. While condemning the Government for this, the Opposition at this stage will do nothing to impede the passage of this legislation as undesirable as many of the consequences which will flow in the wake of it may be. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time and passed through its remaining stages without request or debate. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to the concern expressed by the Kingscote District Council on Kangaroo Island that the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement may debar construction of rental homes at Kingscote by the South Australian Housing Trust? Can the Minister clarify this position? Will the Minister, if need be, consult the Minister for Housing and 
Construction and endeavour to have such action taken as may be required to ensure that the provisions of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement do not prevent the South Australian Housing Trust from meeting the demand for rental homes at Kingscote? 
I direct my question to the Postmaster-General. In view of the current industrial disturbance in the mailing section of the Post Office, what are the prospects for Christmas mails being handled expeditiously? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is he an acquaintance of  Mr Lionel  Hart who was a secretary of the company Tacitair Pty Ltd of which Miss Morosi and her husband were directors, and which was wound up by an order of the Supreme Court of New South Wales with liabilities of nearly $40,000? Was the Minister aware of the company's financial position and the involvement of Miss Morosi and  Mr Ditchburn  as directors at the time of  Mr Ditchburn's  appointment to the Films Board of Review? 
I regret that  Senator McLaren  has seen fit to make a political issue out of a very serious Bill that concerns the assessment of water resources and the quality of water. He has brought in an issue which was of deep concern to all of us in this chamber, as it was to the members of Parliament and the public of New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia, at the time of the debate on the Chowilla Dam and the Dartmouth Dam. In my opinion it is quite ridiculous to intrude into the discussion on a Bill such as this those issues that are now behind us. The big thing is to look at this matter nationally. For the time being there is a generating source of water being built at Dartmouth. We in South Australia need a holding basin for water that will better control the flow of water down the River Murray.  Senator Hall  has said quite rightly that the lifeline of South Australia is the River Murray. 
The matter that is before us tonight simply seeks a better assessment of surface water, its amount and quality, and certain moneys are to be applied to that purpose. Personally I am disappointed with the amounts of money that are being allocated to the various States. The basis of these allocations is the requests by the various States for certain amounts of money on a dollar for dollar basis. South Australia is the driest State in the Commonwealth. Only 10 per cent of its land surface enjoys an annual rainfall of 10 inches or more. We are vitally concerned that every consideration be given to assessing our surface water potential and our underground water quantity and quality, always bearing in mind that the River Murray is a source of water to us. I regret that the Government of South Australia has seen fit to seek the smallest amount of money of any State in Australia. 
Yes. I hope that in the assessment of national requirements South Australia will be given the place in the sun it rightfully deserves, bearing in mind our reliance on the River Murray and our otherwise limited sources of water. I hope that the national Parliament will give our State amounts similar to those it has given to the State that you represent,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in various schemes in recent times, which we in South Australia have not received. I mention that matter as background, in the complete realisation that we in South Australia have not been served as well as we might have been served in respect of maintaining a reasonable water supply. 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Has his attention been drawn to the Canadian Government's decision to increase the first advance payment on its current wheat crop by 67 per cent? When making the announcement the Canadian agriculture Minister said that the move was to give wheat growers cash when they most needed it, that is, at the start of the season. To give real impetus to interest in growing wheat with the present world shortage of that cereal which provides the staff of life, will the Minister reconsider increasing the amount of the first advance payment for the current harvest? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the huge bush fire which recently destroyed a 50- kilometre corridor of farm and grazing land and a number of farm buildings from coast to coast on Kangaroo Island, with losses assessed at more than Sim. In view of the extreme hardship thus inflicted on land owners who were already battling adverse economic conditions, has consideration been given or will consideration be given by the Commonwealth Government to providing relieving assistance to those now in heavy need as a result of that fire? 
 Is not the plain fact of life that a person who is in favour of a given motion and desires to have his name recorded as being in favour of that motion has no right at all to insist upon a division being taken? That, I think, is not just. There comes the occasion when, for a particular reason, a given member may desire to have recorded very clearly how the vote went, particularly as it concerns him. He has no right at all to do that unless he agrees with the minority. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I refer to the reported intention of the motor vehicle complex Nissan Motor Co. (Australia) Pty Ltd to bypass the use of the engine manufacturing facilities of Chrysler Australia Ltd at Lonsdale in South Australia in favour of a plant in Victoria. In view of the heavy dependence of South Australia on the motor vehicle building industry in providing employment in that State and in the interests of maintaining reasonable decentralisation of industry as between the States, will the Minister do all within his power to facilitate the use of this Adelaide plant by Nissan in conjunction with Chrysler as was originally announced would be done? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the United States Government has asked Australia to make up its mind about the installation of an Omega navigational transmitter in this country? In view of the great aid such an installation would be to commercial air and marine navigation and the possibility of Australia's now being bypassed in favour of another Pacific country as a site for an installation, when will the Commonwealth Government announce its determination in this matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the announcement that the European Economic Community will, as from the end of April, permit entry of some 100 000 tonnes of beef to European Economic Community member countries. Has the Minister any further information on how this matter may affect the situation of our beef industry and future prospects? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the severe economic problems confronting the viticulture and brandy industries arising from a reduction of 19 per cent in local sales of the Australian product for the 12 months to the end of November due to the steep increases in excise duties imposed in the 1973 and 1974 budgets, a steep rise in the consumption of imported brandy and the adverse effects on financial liquidity positions of manufacturers of the new taxation procedures in respect of stock valuation. Is the Minister aware that these factors, adverse to both the wine and brandy industries, are causing great concern among grape growers as to the ability of the industries to absorb grape production in the coming vintage? Is the Minister aware that currently an estimated 600 to 800 tonnes of certain varieties of grapes are begging placement in South Australian wineries? What steps are being taken by the Government to meet this very serious situation in the grape growing and wine and brandy industries? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: In view of the present low prices being received by beef producers is this not an opportune time for the Government to explore, in consultation with producer organisations, the possibility of mounting a major campaign for the eradication of bovine tuberculosis and brucellosis by the purchase and destruction of diseased stock, with payments to producers at rates which would be acceptable to the producers? 
I think it is quite incomprehensible that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McCelland)  should suggest that an elected government of a State should not be trusted. He implied that we should ignore the attitudes of the government of a State that has the backing of the people of that State and override what determinations may be made at law in respect of the travel through the Post Offices of certain books which are not in accord with the law as set down in that State. The Minister does himself a great disservice if the basis of his opposition to  Senator Wright's  amendment is purely one of judgment in his own mind of what is right and what is wrong. If he says that we should supersede the powers and authorities of States then I say it is a very poor show indeed. I do not want to see subsidised any book which is not in accord with the laws of the States or the Commonwealth. I do not want to see open slather in a situation like this. I admire  Senator Wright's  calm and cool in his utterances. As I say, it is incomprehensible that credence is not given to his very temperate attitude in this whole matter. I support  Senator Wright  's attitude in the whole matter. 
Amendment negatived. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
Can the Minister for Agriculture indicate to what extent the Government may be prepared to extend the principle inherent in the $3m loan made to the Australian Meat Board to assist in the return to producers from the recent 40 000-tonne beef sale to Russia? In this time of crisis in the beef industry, will similar alleviation be provided in respect of other possible placements of export beef? 
We are considering the Refrigeration Compressors Bounty Bill 1974. In the Committee stage we will be considering requests for amendments which will be moved on behalf of the Government to clauses 5 and 6 of the Bill. Without those requests I would find myself not prepared to vote for the Bill. I welcome the proposed amendments which were advocated very strongly by members of the Opposition, particularly  Senator Drake-Brockman  and  Senator Jessop,  as well as by members of the Government Party. 
The history of this Bill is that on 10 October 1973 the then Tariff Board reported to the Government on its inquiry into tariff protection for domestic appliances, heating and cooling equipment, and recommended that assistance by way of bounty be afforded to the manufacturers in Australia of sealed unit compressors of  lh  kilowatt power or less. At the same time the Board recommended a reduction in the rate of duty on sealed compressor units of 1  Vi  kilowatt power or less from 43'/s per cent to 25 per cent. This second recommendation of a reduction in tariff was acted upon and the necessary amendment to the customs tariff has been in operation since 4 February 1 974. 
The Bill before us provides that from 4 February 1974 until 3 February 1976, a 2-year period, a compensating bounty of $5 be paid on sealed unit compressors manufactured in Australia. In its present form the Bill provides for $2m a year to be available for this bounty. This would cover an estimated annual market demand of some 400 000 units. Provision also is made for a proportionate decrease in the per unit bounty should the total of claims exceed the estimated 400 000. 
There are 3 Australian manufacturers of these compressors- Kirby Refrigeration Units Pty Ltd in New South Wales, Kelvinator Australia Ltd, in Adelaide, and Email Ltd in New South Wales. In clause 5 of the Bill there is provision for rationalisation of the industry with the biggest manufacturer being the only one entitled to the bounty. That would have meant that the Kirby organisation would have been the recipient of the money now being provided. This would have resulted in a monopoly situation and, if implemented, would have constituted in my opinion a travesty of justice. 
I am violently opposed to enforced rationalisation of industry. Rationalisation is a good thing when carried out by the manufacturer of his own volition. Rationalisation, when forced by bureaucracy against the wishes and judgment of the person expected to step down from an industry, is not acceptable to me. Whether any industry is viable is a matter for determination by that industry, by the person concerned, and nobody else. Profit capability and the capacity to continue to be operative in any industry always should remain a matter for individual judgment, and what incentive is available to one manufacturer always should be available to everybody in the industry. The theory of get big or get out is anathema to me. Efficiency is not determined by turnover alone but by a host of other considerations. Therefore the decision whether they should continue production in their various factories should rest with the accredited and registered manufacturers. That which is allowed by way of bounty to one organisation should apply, as I have said, to other producing organisations. 
The requests for amendments now before us was circulated by the Government and is greatly welcomed by me. It will achieve that which was sought and advocated by honourable senators on both sides of the House. I particularly mentioned some honourable senators when I commenced to speak. This Bill concerns greatly a highly respected industrial complex in South Australia, Kelvinator Australia Ltd, an organisation which employs some 2500 to 3000 people. The Bill similarly affects Email Ltd in New South Wales which manufactures in a decentralised area. These organisations will not be detrimentally affected if the proposed amendments are carried. Judging by the debate this morning it would appear that there is general unanimity in this chamber about accepting the proposed amendments. The words that it is proposed should be deleted from the Bill relate to sale. Clause 5(b) of the Bill states: 
. the compressor is or was, during a period to which this Act applies, sold by the manufacturer and used as a refrigeration component in the manufacture of other goods that are subsequently used in Australia. 
It was proposed initially, in the discussions with the then  Senator Murphy  which were referred to this morning by  Senator Drake-Brockman,  that the words 'sold by the manufacturer' and should be deleted. This suggestion has been given effect in the Government's proposed request for amendments. In Committee we will be considering proposed new clauses 5 and 6. I know also that there is to be an increase in the amount of money made available each year for this bounty. The sum is to be increased from $2m to $3.25m. I look forward to hearing in due time from the Minister just what is to be encompassed with the additional money if there is to be greater expectation of production or any variation in the per unit subsidy or bounty. I welcome the proposed amendments. I support the Bill and trust that the amendments in due course will be carried by this chamber. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. It is further to a question I addressed to him on 26 February. I now ask: Is the Minister yet in a position to advise what steps are to be taken to alleviate the problems of the wine and brandy industries? 
I address my question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the serious problems currently facing the tuna fishing industry in South Australia as a consequence of the collapse of the overseas tuna market and the extremely high level of fish imports, which are now running at $70m annually. Can the Minister say what measures the Government is taking to meet this crisis in the nationally important Australian fishing industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the Department of Transport has raised the charges for airport terminal rentals by an average of 604 per cent? If so, has the civil aviation not been singled out as the one form of transport for which a discriminatory policy of 80 per cent recovery of costs should apply? In view of the adverse effect of this policy on the cost of air travel in Australia, constituting a levy per passenger movement into and out of air terminals, and in the interests of equity, will consideration be given to having the charges reviewed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Australian Government protested to the Government of North Vietnam about the shelling of refugee columns and the execution of leading citizens in captured areas? If no such protest has been made, will the Minister explain why not? Does it mean that the Australian Government acquiesces in such acts? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General. I recently asked the Minister, as the representative of the Minister for Transport, a question concerning the burden to the travelling public and tourist industry arising from steeply increased air terminal charges to airline operators. Has the Minister any further information in respect to this matter? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General whether it is a fact that, irrespective of the substance of any existing law of the Commonwealth, a paramount duty of government is to ensure that laws are enforced in accordance with legislative provisions. Is it a fact that it is now a general practice in the Australian Capital Territory for the police not to make arrests in cases of individuals found to be in possession of marihuana? Until such time as the relevant laws are changed why and on what grounds is the law not being fully carried out now? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I ask: Is it not a fact that, under the terms of the Constitution, the Australian Government consists of the 6 States, with limited defined powers residing with the Commonwealth Government? How then, and under what constitutional warrant, has this Commonwealth Government assumed the title, 'Australian Government', and imposed a series of ancillary titles denying the correct constitutional Commonwealth title and status in the Australian federation? 
I rise to indicate my support for the original motion, the amendment moved by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition, and the further amendment moved by  Senator Steele  Hall which, I believe, places the matters under consideration in proper sequence. One cannot but be sick at heart at this whole affair. How remiss we, individually and collectively, in this place and in another place, as well as those who have gone before, have been, not to have realised long ere now the absolute need for clarification of sections 44 (v) and 45 (iii) of the Constitution. I say this in the context of the greatly escalated governmental presence in all aspects of day to day business activities and the hidden and unrealised dangers inherent in this situation so far as members of the Parliament might unwittingly act in breach of these provisions of the Constitution. 
In the allegations made against  Senator Webster  it must be noted that no one has suggested that he has used his position as a member of this Parliament for personal gain or that his business interests conflicted with his parliamentary duties. At the initiation of this matter the letter sent by  Mr P.  C. Brown, of Tecoma, Victoria, to the clerk of the Joint Committee on the Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament stated: 
A senator, probably unwittingly, had broken section 44 ( v) of the Constitution by contracts with the Crown. 
The word 'unwittingly' was used and I have no doubt that  Senator Webster  had absolutely no idea that sales made to a government department by his family organisation in the normal and open course of business could be in contravention of the Constitution and place him at risk so far as his position in this Parliament is concerned. 

 Senator Webster is a man of great integrity and honesty. He has risen, by acclamation of this Senate, to the position of  Chairman  of Committees and,  Mr President,  he is your  Deputy,  the  Deputy President  of the Senate, one of the highest office holders in the land. This has happened because of his acceptance by his fellows in this place. That indicates the type of man that he is.  His  family business has been in operation for 3 generations and has been marked by a high tenor of honest dealing and service to the public. It has received public acceptance which alone enables any family organisation to carry on successfully from generation to generation. However, we are here pro tern as the custodians of a system of government. We are the custodians of the institution of Parliament; an institution basic and fundamental to our very way of life as a people. Parliament must have the full confidence and acceptance of the nation.  Senator Webster  would be one of the first to acknowledge this fact. Allegations having been made of breaches of the Constitution, the matter simply has to be clarified. Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Withers,  set out in very clear, precise and fair terms the requirements of the situation now before us. I support him. But, in fairness, I support equally the amendment moved by  Senator Hall.  Again I state my complete confidence in  Senator Webster. 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture: Is it a fact that there is an unsold surplus of one million tonnes of wheat from last season, which is approximately one-eighth of the Australian harvest? As this situation is due in no small part to the loss of sales worth $70m to Chile because of a union ban on wheat exports to that country, what is being done to overcome the impasse and to have sales to Chile resumed? 
I present the following petition from 122 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Nationalise the insurance industry. 
Make for mass unemployment in the insurance industry. 
Greatly increase taxation. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate reject completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Agriculture in his capacity as the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can he inform the Senate of what action the Government now proposes to take to alleviate the acute problems confronting the wine and brandy industry arising from the provisions of section 3 lA of the Income Tax Assessment Act and also the inordinately heavy incidence of excise duty on brandy? 

 - Mr President, I wish to point out in preface to my remarks this evening that in my opinion over-government is as undesirable as under-government. In recent years there has been a tremendous increase in legislative provisions covering areas not previously regarded as ones in which there should be governmental direction. Modern society certainly has requirements within itself which make governmental participation necessary, but I believe that it is vitally important that the old adage about moderation in all things should be kept well and truly in our minds at all times. One hears continually in ordinary day to day living criticisms of excessive government, excessive regimentation and excessive intrusion into what the average citizen regards as matters that he himself is best qualified to determine without being pushed around. To my mind the Racial Discrimination Bill 1975 that is before us is, in its present form, in many aspects of the over-government type and is restrictive of the freedom of Australian citizens to express their opinions freely and to conduct their own affairs in accordance with the dictates of their consciences. 
In considering this Bill I have tried to come to terms with the underlying philosophy of its provisions. I believe that the word 'race' was largely derived from the works of Georges Buffon, the French naturalist, scientist and author of the voluminous 'Histoire Naturelle' which was published in the 1 8th century- I believe between 1750 and 1800. It was a huge work of some 44 volumes. I have no doubt that the word 'race', with all its added emotional connotations, has helped to create the racist myth which has in turn inspired the bizarre form of political racism which the world has seen during this century. 
Racial discrimination' is a term which should be used very carefully. Personally, I define 'racial discrimination' as an expression of malice towards any human being because of his race. I feel it is important to realise that much of what passes for racial conflict may actually be more cultural or economic in nature. The anti-racist, psuedo moralists of today who seem to be obsessed by race as the all important issue and who try to convince us that race is what it is all about are, I feel, leading us astray. To blame everything on race is a cheap excuse and an evasion of personal responsibility. After all, something can be done about economics, education, culture, skills and so on but no one can change his or her race or colour. Personally, I adhere to a Christian ethic as foundational to my attitudes. I am very much aware of the very clear passages in the New Testament in which so-called racism has no place. For example, verse 28 of the third chapter Galatians reads as follows: 
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. 
This goes right back to a time well before George Buffon. It was the well known Apostle Paul who delivered his famous speech in Athens more than 19 centuries ago in which he confronted the Greek philosophers with the great truth of the common ancenstry of all nations, even quoting from their own writings. I quote a passage from Acts, chapter 17, verse 28: 
For we are indeed God 's offspring. 
Therefore, I have no personal difficulty in agreeing fully with the assertion that racial discrimination is evil. At the same dme, I am aware that the State must be governed, not by revelation, but by reason; not by an abstract rationality but by an adherence to positive values. Is there anyone in this Senate or this Parliament who can produce a satisfactory model of a well functioning inter-racial or multi-racial society? Can it be shown that any country has more harmonious inter-racial or inter-cultural relationships than Australia? If so, which are these countries and by which means did such a model come about? 
I fully agree with Kath Walker's suggestion, which certainly manifests a great deal of commonsense, when she says: 
Let's forget about the colours of faces and just deal with human beings. 
Earlier this evening  Senator Gietzelt  quoted from the writings of Kath Walker. I feel that the words I quoted from her writings are fundamental. I am not so sure that coercive measures will help to combat prejudice and discrimination. I believe that conciliation and education, which I see as the prime tasks of the Race Relations Commissioner will have far more effect than the form of judicial action which may be taken by him in accordance with the proposals of the Bill which is at present before us. Words like 'racism reigns supreme in this country' and 'it is the major evil of the century' and, as we heard tonight from  Senator Gietzelt,  'racism abounds in this country', are highly emotive words which I feel must be challenged. We all know that the provisions regarding the prohibition on propagatory war, national, racial or religious hatred, was written into the United Nations International Covenant at the insistence of the Soviet delegates. 
What about class hatred which has caused the killing of millions of people? Why was the word class ' left out of clause 9 of the Bill when it mentions acts 'involving a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of any human right or fundamental freedon in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life '? There is a vitally important area of discrimination which, I feel, could cause more harm, hurt and damage than many other forms of discrimination. It is class struggle that has caused so much misery. Look at the time of the French Revolution or the actions within the Soviet throughout the years, where the animosity was due to class distinction between those who believe in a capitalistic system and those who believed in a communist system. I believe in these instances there is a discriminatory background of class hatred which should be looked at extremely closely because it provides a base from which a terrific amount of suffering has occurred in this world. 
I believe that discrimination in the sense of making or constituting a difference in or between people is morally wrong in whatever way it comes about. However, as soon as we want to combat discrimination on the basis of race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origin and class, we should adhere to the great tradition of this country that a person is innocent unless proven guilty. The person should never be regarded as being guilty unless he is given the opportunity to prove his innocence. The law should at all times insist that it should be proven beyond any reasonable doubt that a person has committed an offence. Therefore, all clauses in this Bill related to judicial procedures should be subject, I believe, to intense scrutiny with the purpose of safeguarding that precious traditional right which Australians enjoy. It is in this spirit that we should examine the clauses of this Bill when it has reached the Committee stage. 
Last but not least, I should like to draw attention to the far more dangerous form of racism which is promoted today in the name of scientific progress. So-called 'scientific racism' is founded upon and finds its justification in evolution and polygenesis. The facts are that the world is one race but the modern attitude of the so-called intelligentsia in many instances is leading to the promotion of the idea that all animosities between people are genetically based. The New School- the Nouvelle Ecole- founded on evolution, is committed to playing out 2 theses of neo-Darwinism and polygenesis and to underlining the inequalities and the profound differences which are alleged to exist between the races and to translating various degrees of evolution in the transforming movement of these races towards new species 'between which unions will probably be no longer be fertile'. What rubbish! In 1972 the Nobel prizewinner in physics, W. Shokley of Stanford University, suggested the sterilisation of those people below a certain intelligence quotient. There was no hiding of the fact that this ought to apply firstly to individuals of a certain colour. This form of racism, which is progagated in a variety of journals under different names, should be detected and effectively eliminated, in spite of the fact that it appears under the cloak of scientific respectability. 
Finally I want to say that racism is an expression of a particular philosophy of life by which the superiority of one human being over another is believed to be a legitimate form for a social order. I believe most firmly that it is not the ordinary man in the street, whatever prejudices he may foster, who is guilty of this kind of racism. It is, as I have said before, through the so-called intelligentsia in high places of learning that the disastrous philosophy of racial warfare is created, nurtured and spread. Therefore in my opinion any racial discrimination Bill should include a reference to the immoral ideologies by which racism is promoted at the expense of the dignity of humanity and all its individual members. I look forward to the Committee stage of the debate. I trust that as a result of certain amendments being carried this legislation will finally emerge as good, effective and just legislation and legislation that is actually able to achieve, in a way in which the Australian people would desire it, the elimination of whatever discrimination is present in our country. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture. What is the present position in respect of the quarantine station proposed to be established on Cocos Islands to enable the importation into Australia of cattle of highly desirable genetic lines in Europe and Africa? Can some idea be given now about when the Australian cattle industry will be given access to such stock, which is being provided to our competitor cattle industries of Canada and the United States of America through the quarantine station facilities currently being provided for them at the Fleming Animal Import Centre at Florida? 
Can the Minister for Agriculture indicate whether the Government is taking action to assist the local tuna fishing industry in its present difficulties arising, inter alia, from a lack of overseas markets? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to an article written by Denis Warner which appeared in yesterday's 'Herald ' under the caption 'A Flotilla of Shame Heading Our Way'. In the article reference is made to a number of boats carrying Vietnamese refugees proceeding from Singapore to Australia. It is reported that the Singaporean Government provided food and repairs and an escort to beyond the pirates' lairs in the South China Seas and then left the flotilla to its own devices. The report says further that no one knows whether the flotilla will get to Australia and no one seems to care. I ask: Has any action been taken by this Government in respect of this matter? Has it sought to locate the boats? What plans has the Government to facilitate the arrival and acceptance of the refugees in Australia? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. The May edition of a private newsletter named 'Follicle' has queried the fairness of wool selling agents being able to earn commission on the 7.75 per cent tax paid by wool growers. Of this tax, 5 per cent is used to underwrite Government moneys for the market support fund and the balance is used to augment Government moneys allocated to the promotion and research programs for wool, to which agents make no contribution. As the tax is a joint Government-grower agreement to assist the industry and therefore entirely different from other forms of tax, will the Minister consider having the tax deducted from the growers' gross sales prior to agents applying commission rates? 
I  present the following petition from 38 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1 974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I have listened with deep interest to the debate on this proposed amendment. The Committee knows my general feelings in respect of this whole legislation. I feel deeply that every encouragement and assistance should be given to a rapprochement between the parties to a marriage. If there is any possibility of a marriage lasting, then nothing should be done which would in any way inhibit that possibility. Clause 48 (3) provides: 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
That in itself is a stricture on that which can be seen by some in clause 50 to be undesirable. I will support the proposed amendment. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to a Press statement made a few days ago by the  Chairman  of the Australian Wine Board,  Mr Tom  W. Hardy, that there had been an alarming decline in Australian brandy sales? He indicated that there had been a fall of 1 3 per cent in sales this financial year, following a similar fall last year. The repercussions of this situation are revealed in a letter received last week by grape growers in the Barossa Valley from one of the longest established and largest distilleries in South Australia. It says: 
Over a number of years it has been our pleasure to take grapes from you at our Nuriootpa winery and we have greatly appreciated your loyalty to and co-operation with our company. 
It is therefore a matter of deep concern to us that, under the policy of the present Australian Government both as regards broken promises and its vicious taxation measures with their two-pronged effect on sales, liquidity and even the ultimate viability of our industry, we feel you should be  alerted  now to the fact that we may not be in a position to continue purchasing grapes from you. 
This possibility is being brought to your notice now to give you the earliest opportunity, if you so desire, of endeavouring to place your future grape deliveries with other wineries. 
Will the Minister initiate, as a matter of urgency, such governmental action as would lead to a return of confidence in the grape growing and wine making and brandy making industries? 
How does the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation reconcile his recent assertion that the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation will operate on a very modest capitalisation with his assertion that the AGIC will play an important role in the re-insurance field, which is now perforce the province of only the strongest insurance houses in the world? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the Executive Council minute approving a $2, 000m loan raising included an annotation that the loan was for temporary purposes. In the light of the magnitude of the proposed loan, how could it be said that the loan was for temporary purposes? Is it not a fact that the intention of the Government was to avoid the requirements of the Loan Council agreement? 
I find myself very much at variance with the attitudes expressed by  Senator Walsh.  I am absolutely opposed to the proposal that the Commonwealth Government establish a government insurance corporation. My opposition stems from my deeply held conviction that governments should not enter into fields of trade, commerce and industry which can be and are adequately catered for by private enterprise. In my estimation the basic role of government in respect to trade, commerce and industry is to provide the legislative framework within which economic activity can operate freely, having due regard to the rights of others and to the provision of such basic utilities as power, water supply, roads and railways which are beyond the capacity of free enterprise to provide. When governments go beyond providing the climate and framework for production, the experience, on a world viewing, is that there has been economic regression. I challenge any honourable senator here to suggest that in such circumstances a really progressive situation has arisen in any part of the world, particularly in the Western world, over a period of time. Where there has been undue intrusion by government there has been a lack of initiative and drive and enthusiasm, with the result that maximum efficiency is never attained. 
The whole community benefits from a zestful, buoyant economy in which everyone who is eager to do so is encouraged to give of his or her best. They are rewarded for their enthusiasm, their ingenuity and their effort. In short, I believe in free enterprise. I am very much opposed to policies of nationalisation and socialism which are impersonal. 
I said a moment ago that I was in accord with the framework provided by government for power supply. I pay great tribute to that which has been done by the Trust in South Australia in the provision of power. I regard that as one of the major basic utilities which governments can well provide. 
I am well aware of the whole background of the matter. But in South Australia we have a system of power supply and generation - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator David son-Order!  I think the Senate is discussing the Australian Government Insurance Corporation and it is not necessarily involved with the South Australian Electricity Trust. 
The proposal before us is in conformity with this Government's policy of promoting public enterprise as widely and as quickly as it can. In my opinion, the Government does not express the real Australian character which has always been one of rugged individualism and self-reliance but with proper concern for a fair go for everyone. With this concept uppermost in my mind, I fail to understand why the Government seeks to enter the insurance field. Recent public opinion polls confirm that a clear majority of Australians do not consider insurance to be a proper area of Australian Government activity. At the present time the Government is battling to overcome a rising deficit situation and looking for avenues for curtailing governmental outlays. Why then, I ask, expand its public expenditures to finance an insurance enterprise when we have existent an excellent system through the whole gamut of insurance apart from the provision of national disaster insurance, which is an area for which with government-private enterprise co-operation an authority could well be set up under the direction or management of free enterprise to meet the insurance requirements arising from possible national disasters? 
I am discussing at this moment the setting up by this Government of an insurance corporation. The cost of setting up the Australian Government Insurance Corporation will in itself exceed the planned initial capital cost of $800,000. The cost of the necessary office systems and computers alone could well exceed that figure. One has to have the experience in business of getting an office off the ground to realise the very high capital cost involved in establishing an industry and getting it moving. An amount of $800,000 which I expect is in the minds of those who are now in favour of the formation of this Corporation would be peanuts when it came to providing services which must be provided by an insurance corporation. 
The authorised capital figure alone reveals to me that no proper feasibility studies have been carried out which would have enabled the true costs and probable benefits to be assessed. I recall asking the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  how he could justify his claim that this proposed corporation could take on re-insurance business with the capital with which it is to be provided. How could it enter into a field of insurance which, on experience in the insurance world, requires an enormous amount of capital backing to enable an insurance company to take over such risks as were mentioned before by  Senator Jessop-  the huge losses in Darwin as a result of Cyclone Tracy? The reinsurance there amounted to an enormous amount of money. Had that insurance been held by an organisation such as is now proposed to be established, that insurance in itself would have meant immediate fantastic demands on Treasury and on the taxpayer. 
The obvious lack, in my opinion, of a proper assessment of the cost of establishing such an organisation as this, able to take on re-insurance and the like, would indicate that this matter has not been given the full consideration it well may have been given before the suggestions to have this organisation set up came down to us. I understand that the Life Insurance Commissioner has estimated that if the Australian Government Insurance Corporation as proposed were to obtain only one per cent of new ordinary insurance, it would require a fund of $ 1 8m. The assets of the existing insurance companies and superannuation funds total at the present time about $ 15,000m. These funds are invested in a wide variety of activities on behalf of millions of policy holders and superannuation fund members. The disruption to private industry which provides jobs should the present system of provision of insurance be varied and the private sector be denied the ability to be the source of funds which it now is would create, in my opinion, havoc- real chaos- in the economy. 
I was impressed by an editorial which appeared in the Melbourne  'Age'  on 1 5 May of this year which seems to sum up the situation admirably in respect of the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation. The editorial read as follows: 
. the Federal Government's intrusion into the insurance field now does raise serious questions and carry disturbing implications. The foremost question is whether we really need a national insurance office. It is not enough for the Government to respond, as one Minister did at first, with a casual 'Why not?' Insurance is a business concerned with the assessment, spreading and carrying of risk, and with the prudent investment of huge sums of money. As such it is ideally suited to private enterprise which has generally conducted it efficiently and beneficially. This is not to say that private enterprise insurance is above criticism or beyond the need for public controls, but there may be better correctives than competition directed from Canberra. Thus, the plan for AGIC seems to be based more on Labor ideological prejudices and unbounded ambitions than on any clear-cut national necessity. Even if AGIC should not be condemned for being as potentially dangerous as its vehement opponents fear or pretend; even if it would compete without unfair advantage over private enterprise or undue risk to taxpayers; even if it were to perform a useful social function, there is still a strong case against establishing it now. At a time when business confidence is at a low ebb, when fears of greater unemployment are already rife and when serious inflation is aggravated by excessive Government spending, to embark on yet another Government enterprise, to commit yet more public funds and nurture yet another nest of bureaucracy, is political and economic madness. 
I completely endorse that balanced and responsible reference to the proposal which is before us and I oppose the Bill absolutely. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Police and Customs. Is the Government making provision for a more effective control of brandy imports the level of which is a cause for concern to both grape growers and local processors as it affects placement of grape production? As the final phasing out of the differential favouring brandy, which was announced in the Budget, will be to the further detriment of sales of the local products, can the Minister indicate governmental intention in respect of the now huge volume of imports of French brandy which presents a major threat to our viticultural industry? 
I address my question to the Minister for Agriculture and refer to the emergence in Australian wheat storage silos of a new and unidentified insect which is proving resistant to known insecticides. Has a loss of some millions of dollars been incurred through dockages imposed by importing countries, particularly China, because of infested and damaged wheat? What action is being taken to identify and eradicate this pest? 
In addressing myself to the Budget Papers, I wish to do so as an ordinary runofthemill businessman. I speak not as a theorist, not as an expert in the field of high finance, not as an academic, but as a practical businessman called upon to operate within the framework of economic policies laid down by this Government. In this setting, the prospects for the immediate future and for the long term are far from happy. This Budget does practically nothing to engender confidence in the business world. It does not give anything like a real answer to the ills besetting the whole economy. 
We are suffering from continuing and rampant inflation. At present it is running at 16.9 per cent per annum. When we look at the disabilities within the whole of the economy, I think that we can relate these problems to governmental outlays over the last two or three years. The Budget introduced into this Parliament in 1971 by the then Treasurer of the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government provided for an expenditure of some $ 10,000m. That expenditure was looked upon at that time by a number of people as being excessively high. Inflation was running then at 3.8 per cent per annum. Fears were expressed that a $ 10,000m Budget at that time might spark off higher inflation. In the following year, the first Budget of the new Government provided for an expenditure of $ 12,500m. Expenditure was up 25 per cent. The second Budget of the Labor Government proposed an expenditure of $ 1 5,000m. The Budget that we are now considering provides for an expenditure totalling $2 1,9 15m. The increase last financial year was 30 per cent; this Budget proposes an expenditure increase of 23 per cent. It is my firm opinion that many of the ills that are with us today are due directly to the volume of spending by this Government. Admirable though that expenditure may be in many areas, it represents an amount which was beyond the capacity of the Australian economy properly to afford. 
Productivity is declining at present and living standards in actual and real terms are falling. I am one who believes in the payment of the highest wages possible and the highest salaries possible, within the bounds of what productivity will allow. I believe that we can do a great harm to the recipients of income if their earnings are large but do not buy the goods and services that they require or enable them to do what they desire, such as engage in home building. In those circumstances, I feel that the hurt goes back to the person to whom, in the first instance, assistance has been sought to be given. I think that we are suffering from the lack of the provision of meaningful incentives for investment and growth. In this Budget the depreciation allowance to industry is continued; but this allowance is not enough to get the economy off the ground and to give confidence back to the industrial and business sectors. What is required is that which we as a Party are advocating: A 40 per cent investment allowance should be provided immediately. This allowance could be phased out or reduced to 20 per cent on 1 July 1977. Such an allowance would really be an incentive to industry, which is now fearful of outlaying money because of the high cost of obtaining that money as well as the doubtful ability to dispose of the product that one produces. This lack of confidence perturbs me. 
Then, were credence to be given to the findings of the Mathews report and were its proposals to be implemented, as we propose, this would be a step in the direction that would lead to a recovery in the economy. These aims cannot be achieved for the benefit of the whole community unless there is the base of a sound and progressive economy. This fact, I think, has to be realised. There is in this Budget a denial of worthwhile encouragement to individual initiative. Later, I shall submit some figures in regard to the incidence of taxation and the amount of income tax which will be collected this year under the pay-as-you-earn system. I believe that we are suffering from persistence in Government spending at the cost of reduction in investment in the private sector. It is the private sector which produces the wealth. There is no gainsaying that. Because of the transference of so much of the monetary resources of the country to the public sector, there is a weakness in the private sector, with the resultant tragically high level of unemployment which is currently running at 4.5 per cent of the work force. It is suggested that the figure could reach 7 per cent or 8 per cent next year; that is, 500 000 Australians would be unable to find a job. All these things put the Budget under a great cloud at present. 
Now is the time to do such things as would lead to the prospect of betterment in the future, but I am afraid that that prospect is not with us; at least it does not arise from this Budget. As an ordinary little businessman I am looking for reasons why our nation is in the unholy mess, financially and economically, that it is in now. I think that a pretty valid analogy can be drawn between the governmental stewardship of the economy and the irresponsible actions of, say, the young inheritor of a sound business who, through his attitude and policies in directing the affairs of the business of which he is suddenly put in charge, places the business in a ruinous position. The young fellow suddenly finds himself in control of an organisation which has been built up over a long period of family endeavour. Those associated with the business, both employers and employees, have enjoyed high living standards, have provided assistance to community welfare projects and so on. Then the new management sets out on a major spending spree, disregarding the need to nurture and preserve the productive base of the business interest. The advice of tried and proved personnel is rejected.  Major cash  outlays are made on unnecessary new departments and activities within the business. Those outlays are not conducive to building up the base of the enterprise. 
These bases are neglected, and suddenly there is the realisation that the income which previously the business seemed to generate of its own volition- just happened sort of a thing- was no longer forthcoming. All the laudable plans for providing better living standards for those dependent on the enterprise are incapable of implementation in a situation such as that. The new management frantically seeks further financial accommodation at any price but it cannot raise the money. There is a reduction in outlays, men are dismissed, production is reduced and finally a bankruptcy situation faces the enterprise. As I see it, that is the condition of the Australian economy today. It is tragic that we are faced with this situation. This may be an oversimplification of the situation which we face in Australia, but it is a fundamental one, in my opinion. It is time that this Government came down from its high pedestal and viewed the scene realistically. The fact is that basic business principles apply equally to government as they do to private enterprise. The production of national wealth through the whole gamut of primary and secondary industry, and into the tertiary section, is the basic requirement in providing the means to enable government to meet the obligations of the community to provide those services which are expected from government. 
What does this Budget do to promote productivity and economic growth? What does it do to halt inflation, to reduce unemployment and to restore confidence in the private sector? So far as the business sector is concerned, there is a concession of $120m by way of taxation relief to companies. But we must consider this in the light of last year's experience of industry generally, when income was $ 1,300m, or 30 per cent, less than that earned in the previous financial year, because there was the economic situation in which there was not the incentive to work or to produce, and in which the escalation in inflation resulted in caution on the part of industry in investing. As I see it, there is no meaningful endeavour in this Budget really to promote productivity. Inflation will not be halted with a 23 per cent increase in government expenditure. Even  Mr Hawke  has suggested that unemployment will rise; it could rise as high as 500,000. 
In looking at the overall situation, what is being done to generate basic confidence within the economy? There is this lack of confidence. I revert to the question of the misdirection of funds, which is a disincentive, as it were, to the private sector. The Government has done this to meet its very high ideals, its ideology of providing a welfare state. But it is doing this at a time when, to go so quickly, is just beyond the means of the country. There is a dismal lack of any really constructive provision in any of the areas to which I have just referred. In order to promote productivity there must firstly be a return to a spontaneous desire for everyone who has a job to work harder than ever before in the knowledge that his efforts will be rewarded in real benefit to himself. Great play has been made of the claim by the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that he has reduced income tax in this Budget. If that were factual we could expect a rise in productivity. But the facts are that there will be an increase in the total pay-as-you-earn tax return to the Government and also a sharp increase in the average rate of tax. 
I shall look at the figures relating to wages and salaries earned and pay-as-you-earn taxation received by the Government since 1972-73. In 1972-73 wages and salaries totalled $22,384m and the pay-as-you-earn take totalled $3, 161m, or 14.1 per cent ofthe total wages and salaries paid. In 1973-74 wages and salaries totalled $27,502m, and the pay-as-you-earn take totalled $4,238m, or 15.4 per cent of the total wages and salaries paid. In 1974-75 wages and salaries totalled $35, 177m and the pay-as-you-earn take totalled $6,07 lm, or 17.3 per cent of the total wages and salaries paid. The official Budget estimate for 1975-76 is that wages and salaries will total $43,774m and the pay-as-you-earn take will total $8,683m. 
It is an all-time record. The pay-as-you-earn take will represent 19.8 per cent of the total wages and salaries paid this financial year. So looking at this thing overall, how can it be said that income tax has been reduced in this Budget? Whilst certain persons will benefit from the reduced income tax provided in the Budget, in the overall viewing of things the plain facts are that the Government will receive a greatly increased amount of revenue by way of pay-as-you-earn income tax. That, to my mind, is a denial of the claims that have been made that there have been reductions in income tax. Of course, the revenue available to the Government is very definite in that it is there through the inflationary situation. I think that a lot of our troubles lie in the fact that the financing of projects and activities has not been by real money but by money received by way of revenue by the Government arising out of inflation. They are not sound, wealth-produced projects and activities; they just involve a figure that is not in itself a real yardstick of our wealth. That really means- looking at these figures again- that there will be $2,6 12m more from pay-as-you-earn tax in the coming year than there was last year. There has been no easing ofthe tax burden. 
I am saying that there has been a $2,6 12m increase. 
Paid by those who pay income tax under the pay-as-you-earn system. The Budget Papers predict a 22 per cent rise in wages in the next 12 months. If that occurs it will place taxpayers in higher tax brackets. That is again a situation from which demands for wage increases flow. If the tax take is excessive one finds that there are further demands for compensatory increases in wages to get the takehome pay at a level that will buy those things that are regarded as reasonable to be had in the hands of the wage earner. 
I turn to the $540 across the board rebate. I can appreciate that it will provide a temporary benefit to a few people, particularly where there is no multiple family income. But in this respect I see further seeds being sown for denial of the encouragement of thrift and responsibility to be shown by each person to do all within his power to ensure that he will be the master of his own ship in due course through life assurance, superannuation and so on. Incentive has to be provided to encourage people to make provision for a better way of life in their later years. To deny that governmentally through taxation is in my opinion to make a most undesirable attack upon a social level. I have noted with concern that in the promotion of the social welfare state undue emphasis has been placed on that which is provided and that there has been a denial of any personal desire to better one 's position and so on. In this respect I refer to an article entitled 'It's Time', which was published in the Institute of Public Affairs publication  Review  and which states:  . . in 24 months' time Australia could be floundering in the same evil bog in which the British people are at present sinking- a hideous morass compounded of rampant inflation, 5 per cent unemployment, crippling taxation, a huge and rising external deficit, irresponsible, power-drunk unionism, near bankrupt industries, business investment at a virtual standstill, declining living standards, a despairing, bewildered people, a helpless Government, a society in disarray. 
I do not want to see a situation arising in Australianobody does- that would answer such a description. That is why I make a plea to the Government to adopt a more realistic approach towards finance and towards encouraging the private sector. This Budget simply cannot reduce unemployment when it makes only a token attempt to bring about a recovery in the private enterprise section. 
The proposals put forward in the other place yesterday by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were very constructive alternatives to the policies that are being pursued by the Government. In those alternatives really basic, constructive approaches are made towards meeting the very serious situation that exists at present. The suggestion that there should be an extra $500m in cuts in income tax on top of the Government's so-called cuts is the first step towards wage indexation and has the twin aims of achieving wage restraint and encouraging the demand for goods and services. Another alternative, which surely should have been noted by the Government as being something that possibly should be done at the present time, is the introduction of the stock valuation adjustment proposals contained in the Mathews Committee's report by which 50 per cent of the recommended rate for stock valuation would be accepted. That would be the first step in a 3-year program for acceptance of the full recommendations of the Mathews Committee in its report. The 40 per cent investment allowance proposal, the provision of specific incentives for rural industry, the return of the provision of a bounty on superphosphate, the abolition of the levies imposed upon the beef industry and that sort of thing are all matters which would have an impact upon the economy if implemented. This Budget does not provide for them. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, that the following words be added to the motion that the Senate take note of the papers:  but the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to tackle Australia 's economic crisis because- 
) it does not provide an adequate program to defeat inflation; 
it does not relieve unemployment; 
it does not restore confidence in the private sector of the economy; 
it does not provide real tax relief to provide a proper basis for wage and salary restraint; and 
5 ) it fails to restrain Government spending. 
My humble endeavour has been to relate my remarks and my attitudes in a way that is in accord with that amendment, which I warmly support. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Are any major changes contemplated in respect the location and capability of railway workshops in South Australia as far as Australian National Railways activities may be concerned? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, and I refer to the decision of the Government to disband the Army school cadet corps. Will the Minister clarify the position in respect of the future of the air training corps and the naval reserve cadets? Are these groups exempted from the abolition decision? 
-I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport a question concerning air navigation charges and the disastrous position in which general aviation, which involves small aircraft operators, is placed due to the financial impact of the aviation cost recovery policy being pursued by this Government. Has the Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  discussed with him a comprehensive report which was submitted to that Minister by the Cessna Flying Club Inc. of the Parafield airport in South Australia seeking ministerial reconsideration of the cost recovery policy pending a further assessment of its effects on general aviation? What is the present basis for arriving at the proportion of total costs as between RPTthat is, regular public transport- and general aviation? Is it not a fact that the tremendously expensive facilities which have been provided have been built not so much for general aviation but more especially for the large and sophisticated passenger aircraft, and that the incidence of charges on light aircraft could render their use prohibitive? 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, may I ask the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  for a little more elucidation in respect of the matter of the wharves to be taken over by the Commonwealth Government railways. Does the State still have to foot the maintenance bills and carry the debt structure of those wharves after the takeover? 
I address a question to the Minister for Agriculture. I refer to the extreme competition that is being experienced by the Australian fruit canning industry in world markets and that now has been aggravated by the monetary policies of major competitor exporting countries. Is the Minister aware of the dire financial difficulties of the canning industry, as reflected in the inability of co-operatives to complete the payment for fruit delivered last year and which appears to threaten the ability of canneries to process more than about 50 per cent of the next fruit crop? Can the Minister indicate whether the provision of financial assistance to the canning industry is being considered by the Government and, if so, in what form? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General, representing the Minister for Environment. At a recent meeting of the South Australian Irrigators Association grave concern was expressed at the continued delay in implementing recommendations of the Gutteridge Haskins and Davey 1970 report on salinity in the River Murray. The report  inter alia  advocated the early removal of evaporation ponds from the river basin and pointed out that the implementation of these works in South Australia provided the most economical method of achieving a substantial improvement in water quality in South Australia. I appreciate the advice I have received from the Minister for Agriculture in respect of the activities of the working party which is investigating problems of salinity in the Murray. But further to that information I now ask the Minister who represents  Mr Berinson  in this place to ensure that urgent consideration is given to the removal of these evaporation ponds in the Murray Basin to which I have just referred. 
-I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is it a fact that the Telecommunications Commission has withdrawn rental concessions on telephone exchange lines and equipment to emergency fire services in South Australia? The Emergency Fire Service provides invaluable fire protection and control services in rural areas on a voluntary personnel basis and is financed by local government with some State Government subsidies. In view of the further burden placed on local government finances which are already severely strained, will the Minister seek to have the concessions reinstated? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General in his capacity as the representative of the Minister for Environment. The South Australian Murray Irrigators Association has expressed its concern at the presence of the smothering aquatic weed, water hyacinth, in the Murray-Darling river system and the threat it presents to the Murray. Is it a fact that there are some 22 000 acres of water hyacinth in the MurrayDarling system which are not under control and that it is possible for a single plant to spread and cover 700 square yards of river surface in 12 months? Has an aerial and ground spray control program costing $50,000 been arranged between the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments? If so, why has the work not yet been carried out? Is it a fact that at present the weed is being held back by a stabilising log raft near Moree but that any major flood could divert the river and infest the Murray for all time? Will urgent consideration be given to having the control program implemented? In view of the urgency of this question, I indicated earlier to the Minister my intention of asking it. I hope he has some information on this matter. 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the representative here of the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to a statement made by the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Mr Crean,  on 3 September last, summarising developments in the overseas trade field in which that Minister said,  inter aiia: 
The Trade Commissioner post in Capetown South Africa was closed on operational grounds in May of this year. 
In view of the highly favourable trade balance we have with South Africa and in view of the importance of South African trade to South Australian secondary industry in particular, will the Minister obtain information from his colleague as to what constituted operational grounds as the reason for closing the Trade Commissioner post in Capetown? Were the so-called operational grounds transient and is consideration now being given to re-establishing the post? If not, why not? 
I address this question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer to concern expressed to me by the Town  Clerk  of the City of Port Pirie,  Mr Fullgrabe,  on behalf of his Council, at the prospect of increased unemployment in Port Pirie consequent on the proposed phasing out of the Regional Employment Development scheme. Will the Minister indicate whether there are any particular provisions for Port Pirie to relieve unemployment there? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture: Is it a fact that the Japanese meat purchasing authority has allowed increased quotas for importation of beef? Can the Minister indicate the tonnage of Australian beef involved? Has he any information in respect of prospects of further sales to Japan? 
-Let us get back to a calm assessment of the present situation. Australia today is in a catastrophic economic position. It is a position which should never have been allowed to develop. It is the result of this tragic incompetence and mismanagement by this Government. It has pretty well brought our economy to its knees. A position of economic strength prevailed when the Australian Labor Party came to office. Before that time we had pretty well full employment. The rate of inflation was only about 3.8 per cent. We had a confident and progressive business atmosphere and one in which investment proceeded firmly in business and enterprise generally in Australia. Our natural resources were being exploited effectively. Over the whole gamut of our mineral industries- coal, iron ore, etc- there was a buoyancy which was of immense benefit to the whole of the nation. That buoyancy was being encouraged. There was activity in oil search and exploitation. The result of decent encouragement and incentives had given Australia nearly 80 per cent self-sufficiency in oil. Our overseas balances were in an extremely sound position. As a matter of fact, they were so good that to this inept Government they appeared to be a liability. The reserves were too big. That sort of financial attitude, regarding overseas credits as something undesirable, is pretty indicative of this Government's business acumen generally. 
Let us look at the extraordinary expenditures of this Government during the time it has been in office to see how those expenditures have escalated. The last Budget presented by a Liberal-National Country Party Government planned an expenditure of $ 10,000m. At the time, it was criticised as being a level of expenditure which contained possible elements of danger because of the large amount involved at that time. But we found that in the first Labor Budget in the period of a year the Budget expenditure had increased to $ 12,500m. Its second Budget expenditure was $15,000m with that Government being $3,000m in the red at the end of the year. Present Budget expenditure is estimated to be $22, 500m with an estimated deficit of between $3,000m and $4,000m. The country just cannot afford that sort of expenditure. That is why we are finding ouselves in such an unwholly mess at the present time. We had a really sound financial basis to provide a growing industry capacity. In short, we had a good, sound, viable economy. 
I think it is relevant at this stage to make reference to an extract from the speech prepared for His Excellency the Governor-General and read by him at the opening of the Twenty-Eighth Parliament on 27 February 1973. He then said: 
The program which my new Government proposes is designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society- 
I repeat that the Governor-General said there would be basic changes in administration and the whole structure of our society. Those words sounded ominous to me then and unfortunately I have now seen the bitter realisation of my fears. Let us look at today's picture: What is the view of our economy today? I have made reference in the first instance to the whole background of how things were operating prior to Labor coming to office. We are bedevilled at the present time with a lack of business confidence. The unemployment rate is unparalleled in our history. On present trends, the unemployment rate could increase to 8 per cent of the work force or close on 500 000 people by early next year when school leavers commence looking for jobs. This is tragic. There is no greater tragedy in a person's life than to aspire to work and to be unable to do so. It is soul-destroying in my opinion for good young men and women looking for a job simply to be unable to find a place. This situation, to my sorrow, in no small measure is due to the horrible mismanagement of the Government over recent years. 
Inflation is now running riot. The value of savings bank deposits, life assurance policies, superannuation provisions and of money in all these areas owned by individuals is rapidly being eroded. Interest rates are at an unprecedented high. Young people are unable to buy or build homes. That is the base of our society; everybody likes to say: 'This little two by two is my part of Australia. ' For the Government to deny to young people, through sheer incompetence, the possibility of owning a home is in my opinion unforgiveable. The number of new homes being commenced this year is 30 per cent lower than the number 2 years ago. The cost of living has increased in Australia in the last 2!6 years, since Labor came to office, by 41 per cent. The 1973 dollar is now worth 70c. At the present rate of inflation it will be worth only 60c by this time next year or even 50c if one takes note of some expert estimations made by those who are competent to make such assessments. 
The current picture is that the rest of the world is reducing inflation rates. In Australia, the inflation rate is increasing. Employees' tax, that is, pay-as-you-earn taxation, has jumped by 92 per cent in the last 2 years although wages have gone up by less than 57 per cent. The position is even worse for companies. The real gross operating surplus of companies has fallen by 40 per cent since Labor came to office. It represented 1516 per cent of the gross domestic product when Labor assumed office, and now it represents only 9 per cent. Company tax has jumped by 59 per cent in the last 2 years despite the real drop in profitability as this Governments bleeds Australia's main provider of jobs, that is the free enterprise system. 
In the last 2 years Government spending has gone up 76 per cent, double the rate of the rises in outlays in the private sector. Since May last year, this Government has increased its number of employees by 6 per cent, while in private enterprise the number of employees has decreased by 4 per cent. While the private fixed capital expenditure suffered a disastrous fall of 1 4 per cent over the past 1 5 months, the Government has increased its expenditures by that same percentage. This transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector has gone on steadily under Labor as a deliberate policy and is directly related to what I quoted earlier from the Governor-General's Speech in which the aim of the Government was said to be to implement basic changes in administration and in the whole structure of our society. It has been a disastrous policy. 
Yesterday Professor G. G. Meredith, the head of the Financial Management Research Centre at the University of New England, said that 5000 small businesses in Australia face bankruptcy between now and March of next year. I emphasise the figure and words '5000 small businesses'. He said that thousands more would be fighting for survival and that two-thirds of Australia's 200 000 independent enterprises needed only minor further setbacks to push them into bankruptcy. Professor Meredith said that independent private enterprise employed 40 per cent to 45 per cent of the whole work force and accounted for 97 per cent of Australia 's manufacturing companies and 99 per cent of the retail, wholesale and service establishments numerically. He said that 96 per cent of the businesses had a turnover of less than $ 1 m a year and staffs of between 20 and 30 people. Independent enterprise creates competition in Australia. That is why responsible governments will always work for its promotion. Professor Meredith said further that small businesses were being confronted by abnormal odds and that they are going out of business not because of their inefficiency but simply because there are just too many guns aimed at their heads. 
This Government has shown absolutely no understanding of or sympathy for the small businesses. How many of its members have really experienced the responsibilities and sacrifices demanded of small businesses if they are to function? In my opinion they are quite oblivious to the risks taken by the small businessman in the capital he invests in his own business and the sacrifice which is involved in the continual ploughing back of whatever is left at the end. I speak with a bit of knowledge on this subject, being a member of a family organisation which for many years has persistently and necessarily ploughed all moneys back into the company for the promotion of that company, the betterment of our whole set-up in the industry in which we are engaged and the betterment of our employees. It has not been able to do otherwise in order to progress than to plough back. If the Government does not appreciate that that is the sort of situation in which all small businesses find themselves then it is ignorant of something which is the very spring of progress economically in our country. 
The way in which our economy is now running is quite frightening. The economic mire in which our country is wallowing at the present time, the unrealistic socialistic policies that are being pursued and the inevitability of Labor pursuing the same impossible policies through the sheer blindness of attachment to the proven disastrous attitudes of so-called democratic socialism leave no hope for future betterment. In the national interest the situation is now one which can only be met, I am afraid, by stark realism. 
I want to quote now from a statement by the Right Honourable  Sir Robert  Menzies, who is a man for whom I have the greatest admiration, who is one of the greatest statesmen we have ever known in Australia and who is today one of the most competent gentlemen in the field of constitutional matters in Australia. In a statement he made quite recently, which I think must be broadcast loud, clear and wide, he said: 
The Government has, in the last 12 months- 
-I will not. This is a vitally important matter and  Senator Keeffe  would be well advised to listen to what has been said.  Sir Robert  Menzies said: 
The Government has, in the last 12 months, itself put up a record of unconstitutionality and, if it is not too strong a word, misconduct on a variety of occasions. 

 Sir Robert Menzies certainly is a very gracious and generous gentleman. He went on to say: 
On one occasion, it concerned  Dr Cairns,  who was put out for not accurately informing the Parliament. On a recent occasion, it was  Mr Connor  (so senior a Minister, as Cairns was, as to have acted in the highest ministerial capacity). Connor has gone because, on the Prime Minister's own statement, he misled the House. And then there is the not to be forgotten incident of the Executive Council meeting at which the Prime Minister was present, and at which the then Attorney-General gave a 'kerbstone 'opinion. 
At that meeting, the Executive Council, the GovernorGeneral not being present, authorised the borrowing of a sum of so huge a description that it would far exceed all the borrowings ever made by the Commonwealth in 75 years. It was to be done through obscure and unorthodox channels. It was to be a borrowing for 20 years. It was to be a huge borrowing which the sum received by the Commonwealth from the tenders was 951/2 in 100, but the total of 100 had to be repaid at compound interest! 
What a thing to enter into or to seek to enter into !  Sir Robert  went on to say: 
This Executive Council decision was scandalous. It was clearly and unblushingly designed to escape the obligation in the Constitution to go to the Loan Council under the Financial Agreement for approval. 
True, it thought it expedient to call the borrowing one for, temporary purposes'; but a first year student would laugh at this as a prescription of the loan to which I have referred. 
It was a disreputable incident. It was designed to evade the constitutional obligations of the Commonwealth. 
Now, you cannot add these things together and say that the Senate ought to accept them with complacency. This, if there ever was an occasion, was one when the Senate ought to have exercised its undisputed right to defer or reject financial measures involved in the Budget. 
The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Withers,  simply has to be passed. The ball is now in the Prime Minister's court. He should honourably accept the challenge and go to the people for a speedy determination as to who should govern. 
I have had my doubts and reservations as to procedures. Earlier  Senator McLaren  made reference, and rightly so, to the fact that when I entered this place on 10 November 1967 I came in the first instance as one who had been appointed by the South Australian Parliament. I was proposed by  Mr Dunstan  and seconded by  Mr Shard.  My arrival here was in that context. I have always appreciated, since 1949, the observance of that convention. I regret departure from it. I would like to say finally that in view of the irresponsible and threatening attitude of the Prime Minister, who would hold the country to ransom irrespective of the hurt and harm that may be done to people, my considered opinion is that the people must now say who governs. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I refer to the proposed sale, at public auction in Adelaide, of a collection of sacred Aboriginal artefacts formerly the property of the Aranda tribe in the western desert of central Australia. Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs intervened in this matter? Is the Aboriginal Arts Board being encouraged to purchase these artefacts? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. 
I refer to the criticism of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations that the local requirements in television presentations, particularly in drama, are resulting in steep increases in costs to the industry and a decline in the diversity of programs presented. In the interests of comprehensive programming and a viable television industry, is consideration being given to a reassessment of the overall effects of the present guidelines governing programming? 
I seek leave to make a personal statement arising from allegations made by  Senator McLaren. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Agriculture, refers to the difficulties being experienced by the Australian canning fruit industry in meeting outstanding financial commitments to growers for fruit delivered in the 1975 season. Have discussions with industry leaders as yet led to determinations to meet this situation and also that in respect of the prospective 1976 crop? Is it governmental intention to ensure that all available apricots, peaches and pears in 1976 be processed, or is consideration being given to a mandatory reduction in the tonnage to be processed? When will an announcement be made to the industry in clarification of these matters? 
I regret that the name of  Sir Thomas  Playford has been bandied about in the Senate this morning.  Sir Thomas  is a very dear and old friend of mine. I worked with him for 9 years in the House of Assembly in South Australia. I had noted his work before then. He is undoubtedly one of the greatest statesmen Australia has ever had. I pay my tribute to him. He is a remarkable man, both physically and mentally. I make no bones about the fact that on occasions I have consulted with this gentleman and have always found him to be an open-minded and very great man. I just want to pay my tribute to him in the present circumstances. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Honourable senators, I am deeply conscious of the honour you have done me this morning in electing me as your  President,  as I am conscious of the heavy responsibilities which devolve upon this office. It shall be my constant endeavour to be found worthy of your confidence and with your co-operation and confidence, honourable senators, I trust that this the Thirtieth Parliament- and the Senate in particularwill give satisfaction to each honourable senator and to the people of Australia. 
The institution is greater than the person and that shall ever be in my mind. I wish to pay a tribute to my predecessors,  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Magnus  Cormack and  Senator the  Honourable Justin O 'Byrne, for the services they have rendered to this chamber and the Parliament. I shall strive to emulate the best of examples. I thank you all. 

 Senator WITHERS (Western AustraliaLeader of the Government in the Senate)-  Mr President,  I claim the right as your nominator to be the first to address you by that title in this chamber. On behalf of all Government senators, and I am sure on behalf of all senators, I'con.gratulate you on your election as  President.  Your reputation for honesty, integrity and dignity fits you well for this high office, the highest the Senate can bestow. All honourable senators are aware of your politeness and courtesy at all times. 
You have served in the Senate since 1967. Before that you were a member of the South Australian House of Assembly for the electorate of Barossa, a truly befitting electorate for someone like  Senator Laucke.  You have a long and distinguished record of committee service including the chairmanship of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment from 1971 to 1973 and membership of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations and the famous Senate Select Committee on Offshore Petroleum Resources. In addition, you were the  deputy chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution from 1968 to 1969. 
As well as your dedicated Committee service, you have been a distinguished member of this chamber. Nobody would be more respected around the Parliament in a personal sense than yourself. We on the Government side know that your personal qualities will maintain the dignity of your new office. I am confident that you will act as the servant of the Senate and at all times will uphold the dignity of the chamber and protect all senators equally. The office of  President  which you now hold is a great one carrying with it many obligations and many responsibilities. Most importantly, it is your duty to ensure that the business of the Senate is conducted properly without fear or favour to either side. I know- we all know- that you will carry out that responsibility properly and honourably. Like your predecessors, I am sure that you will bring great credit and honour to the Senate. 
We all recognise that in  Mrs Laucke  you have a partner who will be of enormous assistance to you in both the ceremonial and nonparliamentary duties that the office of  President  demands. Like you,  Mr President,  she is respected on all sides of this chamber. I conclude my remarks on behalf of Government senators by wishing you and  Mrs Laucke  well and by assuring you that whatever that can be given to you in carrying out your new role will be there for the asking.  Mr President,  I again congratulate you. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania-Leader of the Opposition in the Senate)- May I also, on behalf of the Opposition, offer my congratulations,  Mr President.  I am not so conversant with your background and with the matters raised by  Senator Withers.  I did not do my homework as well as he has done, mainly because I had not anticipated that you would be elected- I say with great respect. Nevertheless, I can vouch for many of the things that  Senator Withers  has said and I think that all of us around the chamber would agree that you have established a reputation for politeness to people, which is important, and fairness. None of us are under any illusions as to the difficulty encountered by all Presidents at various times in this chamber. We look to the  President  for guidance. We look to him for impartiality. In the ensuing months the many new senators will be looking to you,  Sir, for  those very qualities, and I am sure that we can expect you to show them. 
Very rough passages inevitably lie ahead for all of us. Even a person of your calm temperament, I am sure, will not be able to give us completely calm voyages all through the period of your Presidency. I can say on behalf of the Opposition that we will endeavour to ensure that the work of the Senate is expedited properly and fairly. That does not mean, of course, that we will not be fighting at every opportunity to expose the Government's errors, to expose errors which we believe have occurred in the past and about which we will continue to remind the Australian people. I once again congratulate you. 1 hope that your term as President, will not be too long, and that after the change of government at the next election the same traditions will be able to be carried on as I am sure you will endeavour to carry on during your term. 
-I want to clarify a point I made earlier. I said before that I hoped and anticipated that we would be able to have a trial run with the Supplementary Estimates in respect of the assistance we receive from the committee secretariat. I want to make that quite clear. I do not think I stated with clarity previously that that is the intention. I trust that the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee on 3 April will be able to sort out a few more problems. In the meantime, we can go ahead with the expectation that assistance will be provided. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 6 noted. 
-I deeply appreciate the debate on this matter this afternoon. I have noted closely the comments which have been made. I have endeavoured to capture- I think I have succeeded- the spirit present in respect of the requirements of the Estimates committees to make themselves more effective. I have called a meeting of the Standing Orders Committee for the afternoon of Monday, 3 April, the day before the Parliament resumes. The matters which have been brought forward today will then be considered. In the meantime I am seized with the importance of giving immediate consideration to providing more research assistance to the secretariat of committees as a trial. The whole matter will be discussed at the meeting of the Standing Orders Committee on 3 April. Again, I thank each honourable senator who has taken part in the debate thus far. Because I am saying a few words I do not anticipate that the debate will end, but I wish to express my feelings in this matter and give the assurance that the Committee will do all it possibly can to further the effectiveness of the Estimates committees. 
Honourable senators, may I say how deeply and humbly conscious I am of the great honour you have conferred upon me in electing me to the high and very responsible office of  President.  I thank you,  Senator O  'Byrne, for your very gracious words. I thank you all for the goodwill you have shown me and for the trust and confidence that you now repose in me. I give you my assurance that during my term of office as  President  I shall ever strive to be worthy of your confidence and of the great traditions embodied in the institution of the Senate. 1 thank you most warmly. 

 Senator CARRICK (New South WalesMinister for Education)-  Mr President,  on behalf of Government senators- and I am sure I speak on behalf of all honourable senators- I congratulate you upon your re-election to your high office.  Sir, in  your past service as  President  you have brought to your office a dignity, an impartiality, indeed a wisdom, but above all a sensitivity to the true and unique nature of this Senate and its traditions. We have been proud to sit with you in this chamber. We acknowledge you, sir, as an outstanding  President.  We assure you of our loyalty and support. We wish you well and long in your office. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania- Leader of the Opposition)-  Mr President,  I support the comments of my colleague  Senator O'Byrne  and those of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Carrick.  From experience we have found you to be, as they say, fair in your deliberations in this place. We know that every now and again we get into binds, and I have a suspicion that during the coming period we are going to get into a few more. On behalf of the Opposition I wish you well in your office of  President. 
I hesitate to take part in the debate. I have been listening this evening with keen interest to what I regard as a most interesting debate on the reports from the Standing Orders Committee. I believe it would be wise to adopt the position as set out by  Senator Rae  in response to the invitation of  Senator Harradine.  We should try out the present proposal, bearing in mind the preparedness of the Senate generally to look at suggestions for betterment. We have always gone by the policy of gradualism when dealing with these matters. I believe that the best interests of the system can be served if we accept the current proposal in the meantime. We can look for betterment when we find it necessary to vary that proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 5- Other Matters- noted. 

 - Mr Chairman, before the Committee considers staffing arrangements for Estimates committees, may I set out the events that have transpired since the tabling of the second report of the Standing Orders Committee. Honourable senators will recall that on the last day of sitting of the autumn session a report was tabled by  Senator Rae  on behalf of the chairmen of Estimates Committees. 
In that report, the chairmen- or chairpersons- expressed their satisfaction with the trial that had been conducted with staff assistance during the examination of the supplementary estimates and suggested that a full-time research officer be appointed to each committee. Immediately following that report. I followed the customary practice of seeking the advice of the Public Service Board on the creation of new positions in the Department of the Senate. The present situation is that I have recently received a recommendation from the Board and I have taken action now to create five new positions within the committee secretariat as recommended. As the question of departmental ceilings is involved I have also written to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on this matter. I am anxious to ensure that the greatest possible assistance can be provided for the Estimates committees for their approaching examination of departmental estimates. I have made interim arrangements similar to those that did apply earlier this year. There will be one class 7 research officer attached to each Estimates committee from within the existing staff in the committee secretariat. I thought that, if I were to announce that which has been done to this point, it would be of assistance to the Committee in the consideration of this item of the Standing Orders Committee report. 
It is suggested in the report that the research of the research officers be carried out under the direction of the respective committees and their chairmen to ensure that there is an effective thrust of questioning as determined collectively in the committees. I believe that my assessment and interpretation of the situation is right. Certain committees considering matters before them would agree among their members on a line to pursue on certain items after collective discussion of what should form the major thrust so that they shall be effective. I see  Senator Harradine  's point about assistance to individuals in minority parties or Independants. Is that what concerns  Senator Harradine? 
Bear in mind that any senator is able to be present at any committee hearing to see what is going on. As has been mentioned previously, although a senator may have an influence through being present at the committee hearings and expressing points of view that would be heard by the committee, he would not have an influence in the preparation of the final report. The matter of freedom of access to committees has been mentioned and I can say no more than that in elucidation. It is not within my province or authority to do other than endeavour to explain that which has been determined within the Standing Orders Committee for discussion and determination in the Committee of the Whole. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
I express to  Senator Douglas  McClelland my appreciation of the points he has raised tonight about parliamentary requirements. I have made very strong representations about staff ceilings in the knowledge of what the Senate structure requires in order to do those things that the Parliament or the Senate feels are necessary. Bearing in mind the high importance of having a situation where the Parliament is able to function as a parliament so that we can do that which we were elected to do, to the best of our ability, I made very strong representations for increases in staff ceilings. I mentioned this in our previous discussions in the Estimates Committee. In respect to the funding of parliaments for parliamentary purposes I must say, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland has pointed out, that many parliaments based on our Westminster system are moving in the direction of greater autonomy within their spending capacities, under strict accountability of course. We here are seeking similar power. I believe that there is a common recognition that a responsible balance must be established between the undoubted financial prerogative of the Executive Government and the clear and honest preservation of that independence of parliament, which is so vital to the Westminster system, whereby parliament manages and is seen to manage its own affairs. That sums up the attitude which  Mr Speaker  and I are adopting bearing in mind the parameters imposed on us at present. I can assure  Senator Douglas  McClelland and the Senate that  Mr Speaker  and I are most conscious of the need for betterment in this area and I appreciate the contributions made by honourable senators in the Estimates Committees and in the Committee of the Whole, as we are now, pointing out the basic requirement for this Parliament to have the ability to function as it should and to serve with the greatest effectiveness the people who elect us. I thank the honourable senator for what he said. 
May I say that in the evolution of the greater protection of the rights of Parliament there are various areas which, whilst they do not come within the immediate jurisdiction of the Presiding Officers, it is good to hear discussed by honourable senators. I emphasise the word evolution. I must say that I am very appreciative of the co-operation that I have received from the 
Government. I would be boorish if I were not to acknowledge that. Recently in the other place the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in reply to a question by  Mr Clyde  Cameron from South Australia assured him that the rights of the Parliament have been protected very effectively by  Mr Speaker  and me over the last couple of years. I think this is a recognition of the desires of Executive Government to do those things which we as parliamentarians in our own rights as distinct from the rights of Executive Government are seeking to attain. I appreciated the points raised while I was sitting at the table when the Estimates for the Parliament were being discussed. They all add up to an understanding and appreciation of need and, in certain areas, a background for action. But again I would stress that there is a quite large degree of evolution in the process of attaining those things which will ensure the betterment to which as parliamentarians we all aspire. 
-In response to what  Senator Cavanagh  said about the need for this to be a requirement under the Standing Orders, I do not believe that that is necessary. Procedural changes in this place have been a progressive science for many years. We have a situation here in which the Government, in response to criticisms from Senate estimates committees, suggested a period of six months for it to comment on reports. The Estimates committees desired a period of three months but the Government suggested six months. As a flow-on from that, we have this proposal before us.  Senator Cavanagh  raised a query about the possibility of the Presiding Officer taking a different attitude from that expressed by this chamber. As a Presiding Officer I would regard it as a direction from the Committee of the Whole Senate. A proposal adopted by this place surely would bind a  President  to do certain things. On this occasion, a proposal has been put that the Records Office should keep records of reports to which the Government has not responded within six months. It is proposed that that record be referred to me and that I should announce to the Senate the absence of response in due time as required. In that way a sanction would be applied to the Government's attitude towards Senate reports. I am completely in favour of this proposal. I believe that it goes far enough, although I concede the point made about a harder attitude. A proposal adopted in this place that the Presiding Officer should do certain things in a procedural way is acceptable to me as a Presiding Officer, and I think that it would be acceptable to any other Presiding Officer. 
