I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the great potential hazard posed by the passage of big oil tankers in Great Barrier Reef and other coastal waters, as shown by yesterday's incident off Cape York, will the Government investigate the possibility of introducing legislation requiring the owners of tankers trading to Australian ports to lodge a substantial bond to cover possible damage to Australian coastal industries, to seaside resorts and to marine life off the Australian coast? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Was the tanker involved in yesterday's incident off Cape York carrying a Torres Strait pilot at the time of striking a submerged object? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister assure the Senate that every effort will be made to protect the cultured pearl industry in and around the Thursday Island area from damage by oil or detergent as a result of yesterday's incident in this area? 
I ask the Leader of  the Government in the Senate a question in relation to the proposed legislation to assert and establish the legal rights of the Commonwealth over the continental shelf. Will this proposed legislation apply to the Great Barrier Reef, much of which is under water at all times? 
1 support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech which was so ably moved by  Senator Rae  and seconded by  Senator Maunsell.  We express our loyalty to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and hope that she may long be spared to be our sovereign. I am sure that the visit to Australia by  Her  Majesty, the Duke of Edinburgh, Prince Charles and Princess Anne will be a big success and that they will be warmly received everywhere they go. 
The Speech of the Governor-General covers many phases of the Australian way of life and many matters of interest to Australians. Of major importance is the knowledge that the decade of the 1970s will mark the withdrawal of most of the European forces from the Pacific region. In view of the changed circumstances it is not surprising that the Speech emphasises defence and security. It mentions the continuation of our policy of defence outside Australia by maintaining forces in Singapore and Malaysia. We do not want to wait until we are attacked and then have to wage war in our own land, as the Opposition apparently proposes we should do. We do not want to wait until we have no friends left and then be at the mercy of the first powerful aggressor. The Government's policy is to honour our treaty obligations, to support our friends and allies and to defend our country before the enemy reaches our shores. This has been done successfully in two world wars. 
I wish to refer to the Communist threat. I was very interested yesterday to hear  Senator Fitzgerald  suggest that India is in grave danger of going Communist, as he put it. Let us make no mistake: Communism is not a dead issue, as the Opposition would have us believe and as the Communists want us to believe. The Opposition has fallen for that type of propaganda. The Communist countries are now more than ever seeking world domination and using their now all too familiar methods to achieve this. The Country Party has always opposed Communism. It was the first to point out the danger to Australia of Communist aggression. 
Australia and New Zealand are two countries whose people are predominantly of European descent and which are situated in the South Pacific area, far from people of our own race. If we are not ever-vigilant in our defence we could be a rich prize for some powerful aggressor. Australia is an island continent. We are the only nation ever to own a whole continent. We have no land boundaries with other countries. This is a big factor in defence. Despite modern methods of war, we have seen our motherland successfully use a 20-mile strip of water to survive one of the greatest onslaughts in history. What is more, the British have resisted invasion for 900 years. 
We have grown to nationhood under the protection of the British Navy in the period of its greatest power and strength. Now, 200 years after Captain Cook's exploration of our east coast and 182 years after the first European settlement here, we have to make more provision for our own defence and we have to have friends and allies who will come to our aid if we are attacked. To have these friends and allies means that we must be prepared to support them if they are attacked. We have treaty obligations in the South Pacific and Indian Ocean areas. 
With regard to defence, the Speech mentioned that a statement on defence would be issued shortly. As we all know, the statement was issued last night. It spelt out in great detail our defence policy for the next 5 years. Referring to the statement, the Governor-General's Speech says:   . . it will indicate the priorities to bc given to the development of self-sufficient and versatile forces to support those policies. 
New proposals will be made for the Defence infrastructure, and for new equipment in the years ahead. 
Meanwhile, the acquisition of the fighting equipment, which was announced in the last Budget, is proceeding. Investigation into the construction of a causeway to the naval facilities to be built in Western Australia has begun, and construction on the development of Learmonth airfield in Western Australia will shortly start.  1 refer now to the drought, position in Queensland, lt is probably not generally realised that in many parts of Queensland the drought is far from over. In fact, in quite a number of areas it is even worsening. The Federal Government has agreed to drought assistance being granted to Queensland on a Si for Si basis up to $4m. Further sums will be granted for approved projects. The estimated drought aid to Queensland this financial year is SI 5m. It is interesting to note that rainfall records show that the average rainfall, decade by decade, appear to be lessening in many parts of Queensland. I think this is also true of some of the other drier areas of Australia. There are exceptions to this situation. In the early 1950s some parts of inland Queensland received what is called their wet years - I think that was the time that Lake Eyre was full for the second time since white settlement - and then there was a break. Apart from that rainfall the average, decade by decade, is getting less and less. To enable many primary producers in Queensland to carry on and not to be forced off their farms more assistance will be needed than the amount 1 have mentioned. 1 think some form of rural reconstruction is being talked about in Queensland similar to the scheme operating in western New South Wales. I hope something will be done to aid some of these people fairly soon. lt is also interesting to note that the Federal Government has allocated another Si 00m for water conservation schemes in Australia. Of this amount, SI 2.8m has been allocated to the Bundaberg area. The Emerald scheme, to which $20m has been allocated by the Commonwealth., is already well under construction. A different set of circumstances applies in the Bundaberg area, where the Commonwealth Government is providing money for one big dam. The Queensland Government is providing another $8m towards the construction cost of some weirs across the Burnett River to hold the salt water back. Water from this dam will be fed into the Burnett River and into underground supplies to make possible much more irrigation of cane. For sugar cane farmers to operate successfully in the Bundaberg area irrigation is necessary. Dry land cane is not doing so well. Bundaberg is a city of 25,000 people. The district has five sugar mills, 1,400 to 1,600 farms, a sugar refinery and the large population that goes with this industry. This water scheme is different from others in the sense that it is providing water for established areas, established farms and, one might say, established factories which treat the sugar cane. Very little provision is necessary for channels, and no provision is necessary for pumping equipment, as the farmers have their own. The purpose of this scheme is merely to inject new life and a certain future into a big established area of Queensland. I think this is a very good scheme and 1 commend it to anybody who is interested. 
We are told too that the Burdekin River, further north, is being investigated by the Snowy Mountains Authority. I hope that something can be done in that area because it is interesting to note that while a cyclone has occurred in parts of Queensland and some areas have received 100 inches of rain - for instance, at Proserpine - a little over 1 00 miles away at the Haughton sugar mill, just south of Townsville, there has been no rain of any consequence at all. There is some doubt about the mill's starting operations as no water is available for it. The rainfall in Queensland is very patchy. The drought position is not good and more Commonwealth aid might bc required. 
would like to continue with reference to the Government's proposals as outlined in the Governor-Generals Speech in respect of problems facing primary producers. The Australian Country Party believes that the Government's role is essentially one of creating a favourable cost climate in which the farmer can operate and compete on world markets. Since World War 11 Australian primary producers have endeavoured to keep pace with rising costs by becoming more efficient. In fact, during this period the volume of production from farms has doubled without increasing the size of the work force. This has been done mainly by improved methods, improved varieties of crops and a great amount of mechanisation. 
As my friend says, by a lot of hard work. It now appears that this efficiency cannot be increased at the same rate as in the past and, consequently, costs difficulties face many producers. In many areas the problem has been aggravated by drought and, as I have just mentioned, that is applicable in the State of Queensland. Many primary producers are not now in a position to take advantage of the concessional income tax deductions allowed to primary producers - farmers and others - because they have little or no income. When one has little or no income a concessional deduction is not much help. 
The primary producers must sell their surplus production overseas. They are not protected by high tariffs. Consequently, 1 believe that the Australian people who enjoy full employment and a high standard of living, mainly through tariff protection of secondary industries must be prepared to share some of this prosperity with those who make it possible; that is, not only those who produce the primary industry export income but also the residents of country towns. This principle has already been established by the provision of subsidies and home consumption price marketing schemes. As freight costs to the inland and northern areas of Australia constitute such a large proportion of the outgoings of these people I believe that a large scale sharing of the cost of freight by the Australian people generally is one way of equalising the burden and would go a long way towards making it possible for producers and industries in the northern and inland areas to have an economic future. In other words, the principle of subsidising petrol prices which has already been adopted should be extended to include freight on goods to and from the inland. This principle already extends to other things. For instance, we are told that it costs about 80c to send a letter to Birdsville on the Queensland-South Austraiian border, but the Postmaster-General's Department charges only 5c, while in the private industry sector such things as tyres and tubes, cigarettes and tobacco and most patent medicines are sold at a standard price throughout Australia. Yet an essential commodity such as cement which costs about $24 a ton in Brisbane costs over $50 a ton in Longreach, which is in the centre of the State, and costs considerably more further out towards the Northern Territory border. In fact, freight on cement to the inland areas is more than the basic price of the commodity. lt is also interesting to note Labor Party policy on the position of inland towns as stated on 16th February by the Opposition Leader in the Queensland Parliament,  Mr Houston,  MLA. 1 quote from a Press report from Cunnamulla where  Mr Houston  was speaking, lt states: 
He said the State Government should resell lc the residents of towns which could not be saved in larger centres. . . . The basic principle of the scheme was that when  a  town had been designated as  unsavable,  the State Government should resume the land of all residents who wanted to leave and pay compensation for their property investment. 
Needless to say, this scheme was rejected by the Queensland Government. It is interesting to note Labor's thinking in relation to this scheme. Apparently Labor wants to eliminate a lot of inland towns. I was glad to note that the Governor-General, in his Speech, mentioned the proposal to set up a Bureau of Transport Economics. No doubt this Bureau will be able to investigate some of the matters that I have raised concerning inland freight problems. 
I refer now to oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. This matter has been the subject of a lot of publicity and now a committee of inquiry is to be set up to inquire into the position. I believe that some people already have prejudged the result of this inquiry and in my opinion it is wrong to do so. If a committee of inquiry is appointed, we should be prepared to accept its findings, whatever they are, and go ahead from there. I refer also to the recent oil spillage from the tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' near Thursday Island. We were lucky that the spillage was so small. I was glad to hear that the shipping companies have developed some form of insurance to cover future happenings of this kind. I asked a question about this form of insurance. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson),  in answer to my question, said that details of the scheme might take a couple of years to finalise. I hope the scheme can be speeded up. The incident in Torres Strait highlights the increased risk to the Australian coast. The next incident might be a collision between two ships; it might not be a ship running on to rocks. If the collision occurred near a seaside resort, large portions of our coastal areas could be destroyed. I would like to quote an article published in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' and written by  Mr Bill  Lang on the subject of oil spillages in other parts of the world. The article reads: 
Every day an average 6,000 tons of oil are dumped into  the seas  around Britain. 
By comparison, it is estimated that 3,000 tons were spilt in Torres Strait. Referring to the oil dumping around Britain, the article continues: 
Sometimes it is accidental. A man forgets to turn a pump off, a valve sticks during loading or unloading, a tanker is run aground. 
Often it is deliberate. A captain will flash hundreds of tons of sludge out of his tanks after unloading. 
Generally he does this at night, and is well clear of the tell-tale slick by morning. 
Every day, potentially disastrous slicks are spotted off Britain's coasts. 
They are reported by ships, aircraft and coastguard vessels. 
The article refers to the thousands of birds that have died off the English coast this year. It refers also to the 'Torrey Canyon' disaster and the spillage of oil which cost so much to clean up. The article continues: 
The old safeguards were found to be inadequate. 
Britain and 30 other nations had agreed to prohibit their fleets from discharging oil within 100 miles of coasts. 
From 1967, ships over 20,000 tons were prohibited from discharging anywhere at sea. 
The trouble was that many captains ignored the international agreement. Many still do. 
Of the 750 million tons of oil  tankered  around the world, about 30 million tons are reckoned to escape. 
This figure shows that a colossal amount of oil is spilt on the oceans. The article continues: 
Prosecutions are rare. A ship far out to sea may be spotted dumping sludge. 
 An article in the Brisbane 'Courier-Mail' of 10th March 1970. It was written by  Mr Bill  Lang. The article continues: 
Even if it is identified, difficult from an aircraft, it can only be prosecuted by its home government, which is often powerless to press proof. 
Only one case has been brought against a British captain. He was caught dumping oil near France and fined £600 - but it took Scotland Yard 3 months to prepare the case. 
Under domestic law it is an offence to dump oil within the 3-mile territorial limit. Last year there were about 60 convictions and nearly £10,000 in fines for this offence. 
But the main hope is that ship owners will police themselves. 
The big owners have increased insurance against claims for pollution and guaranteed big compensatory payments to governments. 
Already firms controlling £0% of the world's tankers have fitted them with sludge tanks. 
Ships are still washed out at sea, but the sludge is pumped to the special tanks and disposed of ashore. 
The ship owners, notably Esso, BP, Gulf, Shell, Mobil and Texaco, are backing research into control. 
They have given £33,000 to Newcastle University for a 5-year study into the treatment of oiled sea birds. 
The Newcastle University referred to in the article is the Newcastle University in Great Britain. The article continues: 
Seafront councils are organising armadas of volunteers to fight oil off-shore at quick notice  and are urging the Government to introduce aerial slick-spotting patrols. Too costly', says the Government. lt is pinning its hopes on a liquid called Dispersal  OS  developed by ICI. 
This is claimed to be the answer to slicks, breaking the oil down into soft, creamy particles which can be gobbled up by micro-organisms. 
Dispersal OS is said to be harmless to sealife and cheaper than detergent, costing between £50 and £100 for each ton of slick treated. 
The article is very interesting. It shows what problems we might run into around our coast, where the carriage of oil in super tankers is only just building up. In future the oil could be carried from our own fields to local refineries along the coast. Bigger tankers might be used to carry imported oil. We might yet export oil. The risks of spillage are getting greater and greater. The Government must look at the risks involved. I believe that we were lucky to have this Torres Strait warning of what can happen. We were lucky that it was a comparatively small spillage in relation to some of the spiliages that have taken and could take place. 
I now refer to the mention in the Governor-General's Speech of the setting up of an Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in north Queensland. The setting up of this Institute will fill a longfelt want. I am informed that the Institute will be completely autonomous, although it will cooperate with the Captain James Cook University at Townsville and with other institutions throughout Australia which have been doing similar research. There is much that we do not know about marine life, ocean currents, ocean temperatures, the feeding habits of fish, the migratory habits of fish, different types of sedentary sealife and other matters. I am told that the Institute will be given quite a sizable boat to carry out its research. While this may take some time, no doubt it will come up with a lot of answers. Almost certainly one of the answers it will come up with is the effects on marine life of oil spillages and detergents. We do not know much about this. In this place in the last few days a lot of questions have been asked about these effects. We hope that the Institute will provide some answers. 
We also hope that it will come up with answers to the very vexed question of the damage done to the Great Barrier Reef by the crown of thorns starfish. The triton shell is one thing that will control the crown of thorns. Action has now been taken to prevent the removal of this shell from the Reef. There is a difference of opinion about the crown of thorns. Some people say that in some areas it is very bad. Other people say that in other areas it is hard to find. Recently somebody from another country wanted samples of the crown of thorns, which lives on and eats the coral. An order was placed with Queensland authorities and with Queensland firms to supply some crown of thorns. After much searching none could be found. This was the situation, despite the stories we have heard of the large numbers being about Perhaps they did not search for them in the right place. Be that as it may, they could not find them. I hope that the institute of marine science will be set up at Townsville as soon as possible and that its research will provide much information we do not have now but which is vital to the development of the resources of the sea off our coast. 
I mention now the sugar agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland governments which was renewed last year and the general position of the sugar industry. Today's Press quotes the London price of sugar as £Stg36 5s per ton whereas at one stage the price was down to £Stg 15 or £Stg 16 per ton. The current price is a big improvement. However, as was stated at the Queensland canegrowers' conference recently, the industry will soon have to begin repaying some of the loans which were given to maintain a price of $86 during the drought and the times of low prices that the industry has come through. It is interesting to note also that the sugar industry has increased the rebates to the fruit canning industry to $15 per ton. I hope that from now on the sugar industry will be in a much more favourable position economically. I support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and oppose the amendment. I hope that the motion will receive the favourable attention of the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - As I call on  Senator Brown  to speak I point out to the Senate that the honourable senator is making his maiden speech in this place. I trust that the usual courtesies extended on these occasions will apply and that there will be no interjections. 
My question to the Minister for Air follows that asked by  Senator Bishop  in relation to Neptune aircraft. Can the Minister say how serious is the defect in the aircraft? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been directed to a statement that  17  American senators have asked  President  Nixon to prohibit meal imports, mainly from Australia and New Zealand, that are being shipped to the United States via Canada to circumvent United States meat import quotas? Will the Minister assure the Senate that the Australian Government will not allow any such practices to develop which could disrupt our meat export trade to the United States? 
 I would like to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  has stated that a well documented case has recently been submitted to the Commonwealth Government for further assistance to Queensland graziers in the drought areas for restocking and other purposes, will the Government treat the matter as urgent and give early consideration to the proposals contained in the submissions from the Government of Queensland? 
1 support the .Bill. In view of the risk of damage to the Australian coastline and our coastal industries I. have been advocating legislation of this nature for a long time. The 'Oceanic Grandeur is aground inside the 3-mile limit. There is no question at all that it is within Australia's territorial waters. The vessel is aground 21 miles from Wednesday Island. We have been told that a large quantity of oil is still in its tanks. Apparently no attempt is being made to remove the oil in a hurry. We have been told that no action has been taken during the last 7 or 8 days to remove the remaining oil. lt so happens that there was a tanker in the vicinity of the "Oceanic Grandeur' when it ran aground and it removed a large quantity of the oil and transported it to Brisbane, but nothing has been done since then. 
It is the season of bad weather in that, part of the Australian coastline at present. A cyclone or bad weather could blow up any time which could result in a large quantity of oil being spilled. We might not be so fortunate if there is another spillage in that the currents could take the oil in a direction in which it could do a lot of harm. The Bill gives the Minister for Shipping and Transport the discretionary power to take suitable action in the event of further spillages and early action to have the remainder of the oil cargo transferred to another tanker or removed in some other fashion. Bur someone should be liable for the cleaning up operations and so on. I believe that someone must be made to pay the bill for such operations. As I said at the commencement of my speech, the vessel ran aground within 3 miles of the Australian coast. 
It has been pointed out that the number of tankers plying our coastline is increasing. The tankers are also getting larger and larger. As a result, the risk of damage to our coastal industries and resorts as well as many of the other things on the coast is becoming greater and greater. From the information 1 have been able to gather I believe that the draft of this ship is almost too great for it to go through Torres Strait. 1 understand that the maximum depth of water in Torres Strait is around 40 to 42 feet. If a ship from Sumatra or from wherever it is bringing the oil does not go through Torres Strait it has to go right around the top of New Guinea or around the southern coast of Australia. There is a limit to the size of ships which can use Torres Strait. I understand there are only two steamer passages through Torres Strait. One is down close to Thursday Island and the other one is about half way up through the Strait. The presence of this ship wilh its cargo of oil constitutes a big risk to coral reefs, to part of the Great Barrier Reef, to the cultured pearl industry which has developed into a very big industry in that part of Australia, to the fishing industry, to bird life and to the coastal resorts. The other day the Senate was told thai the shipping companies of the world had got together and decided on voluntary insurance to cover the possibility of this type of damage. 
During my speech on the debute on the Address-in-Reply 1 said: 
But the main hope is that shipowners will police themselves. 
The big owners have increased insurance against claims For pollution and guaranteed big compensatory payments to governments. 
This insurance scheme is only just getting under way. 1 was told by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson)  in answer to a question I asked last week that it will take some time for the scheme to become fully organised. This Navigation Bill will have one result in the sense that it will control a ship which is in territorial waters. Unfortunately, the Oceanic Grandeur' is stuck in the Strait and it cannot get away. The Government wants the insurance scheme tidied up as soon as possible because there is noi only the risk of ships going aground in Torres Strait, hut there is the risk of ships being wrecked in a cyclone, and the risk of a collision. I put it to the Senate that if there was a collision off some part of Australia near big seaside resorts, such as the Gold Coast of Queensland or some other resort in the southern part of Australia, during the week before Christmas nothing could be claimed against a ship involved if it was beyond the 3-mile limit because, as the legislation stands at present, it is on the high seas. The only remedy available to the business people in those seaside resorts w ho would stand to lose - the operators of hotels, motels, guest houses and flats, and the people who provide meals and those who run the other businesses which cater for the large number of people at those resorts - would be to sue individually the owner of the ship at the International Court of Justice at The Hague. As honourable senators oan imagine that would take a long time; it would be almost impossible for those people to pursue that course. I realise that the provisions of this Bill will not alter that situation, as the honourable senator opposite has stated. The Government is establishing the principle of the Australian Commonwealth having a claim against these people by international treaty. The voluntary insurance scheme of the shipowners will overcome the problem provided all the shipping owners are in this insurance scheme. But I do think that this Bill should be part of a permanent scheme. I know it has been introduced in a hurry. We must take heed of the fact that Parliament will not be sitting for 2i weeks and anything could go wrong in that period. Without this legislation power would not be available to deal with any emergency oil spillage. Possibly there would not be enough detergent. We do not know whether detergent is having any proper effect in cleaning up oil spillages. This is a start in legislation which I believe is necessary to protect the Australian coast and protect the seaside resorts. For that reason I support the Bill and I hope it has a speedy passage. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question. Is any of the Australian meat exported to Canada and later re-exported to the United States of America taken into account as part of the Australian quota of meat allowed to be exported direct to the United States of America? 
-I  would like to ask the Minister representing the Treasurer what arrangements have been made between a company called Commemorative International Ltd of 275 George Street, Sydney, and the Royal Australian Mint to have the Mini issue 1,000 gold medallions to commemorate the Royal visit. Were tenders called for this privilege? What is the actual value of the gold content of these medallions which are to be sold to the public for $296 per set? 
1 direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the recently announced settlement of the industrial dispute over the use of the container terminal at Tilbury Dock in the United Kingdom, will the Government take steps to see that any surcharge to cover the handling of Australian container traffic at Rotterdam will be removed? 
I support the amendment moved by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman).  I shall give some reasons why I believe (he motion moved by  Senator McManus  would not be workable and would have some disability attached to it. The motion seeks the appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the present condition and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. When  Senator McManus  moved his motion he said that he believed that a royal commission should cover all primary industries and their ramifications. What is it suggested should be covered by the proposed royal commission? For example, would fishing be included? Although mining could be omitted from a list of primary industries. I would think that fishing should be included. I believe that logging, afforestation and re-afforestation should be classified as primary industries. Would a royal commission inquire into some of the semi-manufacturing sections of primary production? I shall cite some of them. I will not name many of them, but 1 believe that at least some of them would have to be included in the term 'primary industry'. In the dairying field dairy factories, butter factories and milk pasteurisation plants could be included. Meatworks, sawmills, sugar mills, cotton ginneries, fruit packing houses, wineries, fruit and fish canneries, jam factories, flour mills, malting houses and rum distilleries could also be covered. 
I have made only a selection from the businesses that could be covered because they are bound up with the well-being or otherwise of primary industry. I would think that one of the objections to a royal commission at this stage would be that it would take at least 2 years and possibly longer to bring in a finding, if the job were to be done properly and to cover every section of primary industry. Some time would then have to elapse before the finding could be evaluated. 
The words 'present condition' are used in the motion in referring to primary industry. The time taken for inquiries to be conducted by a royal commission would defeat the purpose of the motion because, by the time a royal commission reported the present position could have altered considerably. ls it suggested that a royal commission should cover all aspects of each and every primary industry in Australia, or fi it  10  inquire only into a few of ihe bigger industries? I shall name a few of the activities that I understand to be included in primary industry. Probably the number one industry of Australia is the wool industry. Production of that wonderful fibre, wool. h;is meant much to Australia in the post anil still means much today. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Kennelly)  - I understand from the way in which  Senator Lawrie  is making his speech that he is speaking from copious notes. I believe that, is in order. 
 I was saying that the wool industry is our main industry and principal earner of export income. I suggest that the wheat industry is our  next  biggest export income earner. It has been  a  very important industry to Australia  for  many years. Exports of meat have earned great income for Australia. Consideration of the meat industry would have to include production of mutton and lamb from  the  wool industry. The next primary industry to be considered is dairying, including butter and cheese making, and milk processing. The sugar industry is of special significance to Queensland and cams  a  great deal of export income for Australia. 
Exports of apples and pears  play a  very important part in gaining export income for Australia. Other primary industries do not earn such  a  big percentage of export income but are very important to Australian producers and would have to be covered by a comprehensive inquiry into primary industry. I have in mind the production of coarse grains such as sorghum, millet, safflower. canary seed and various others. Australian producers are engaged in the production of oats and barley, and also citrus fruits. In the pig industry businesses  are  concerned in  the  production of  hams, bacon,  pork and various by-products. 
The tobacco industry is very important to Australia. Pineapple and banana growing are also significant. The growing of cotton has been expanded considerably in Australia, to the extent that the bounty previously paid by the Government has been removed. In the poultry industry, apart from the production of eggs, many people are engaged in growing fowls, turkeys, ducks and geese for table meats. The fishing industry has expanded rapidly and is of great economic value to Australia. Various products from the sea are included in the fishing industry. Hop growing is an important component of one of Australia's major industries. Grapes are grown for wine manufacturing as well as for the production of raisins and sultanas. Fodder crops are grown for animals, the principal fodder crop being lucerne. Maize is another fodder crop. Rice growing has developed greatly as a primary industry. Peanut oil production 'is an important industry in some of the peanut growing districts of Australia. 
Many people are employed in the growing of fruit and vegetables for use in the kitchen. Small fruits such as berries are grown for jam making. Strawberries are grown for that purpose. These are all important primary industries and to some extent they probably all are suffering from low prices. Some industries are not but they would have to be covered in the inquiry. The tea growing industry is another which has developed recently and which will, I believe, be an economic proposition soon. Certainly it requires a big fermentary to make the tea leaf usable. 
We must remember that Australia still is on the horse's back to some extent. We never have been able to do without horses, especially in controlling animals on cattle and sheep properties. Some of our horses become trotters and gallopers but not every honourable senator would agree that the best of them appear at the tracks. There are 2 industries dealing with sea products, the pearl shell industry and the production of artificial pearls, which are primary industries whatever way we look at them. Another important agricultural industry deals with bee keeping and honey production. A less important industry but one which is established in some parts of Australia produces mohair from goats. This industry is developing in Australia. I understand that there  is a  very substantial and profitable whaling industry. This is another of the products of the sea. Another product of the land which is not often mentioned is the agricultural seed industry. It is a very important one. It is operated in a big way in areas suitable for growing seed of the various kinds needed in agriculture generally. There is also that section of primary industry associated with our forests, such as logging, afforestation and reafforestation. Another industry which I am told is quite important close to our big cities is called, I understand, floriculture - the production of flowers sold by florists. There are other smaller primary industries which I could mention. One of these is the production of pet foods from horse meat and other things grown in Australia. I am told that at times of the year there is even quite a valuable mutton bird industry. 
I have been elaborating on these various sections of primary industry,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in order to show what a big job it would be to have a royal commission into all these things and the long period of time that it would take. The only compromise that could be made would be to pick out several of these industries - or arrange for the industry organisations to pick them out - and have separate inquiries. This is the very thing suggested by the Government's amendment and that is why I support it. Most sections of primary industry have their own producer organisations. There also are marketing organisations such as boards or other similar controlling bodies. For a royal commission to have any real chance of producing an authoritative report on the condition of primary industries, it would have to be helped by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics or some similar body. This would take quite a considerable time. It would be a big job to look into so many industries. The Bureau would have to be greatly enlarged. This point also is dealt with in the Government's amendment which for that reason also is worthy of support. The wording of the motion we are discussing calls for a royal commission on the 'future prospects' of primary industries. At the best, I believe, such a report could be based only on the opinions of responsible people and would involve some measure of crystal ball gazing. By the time a royal commission had done its work, obtained all the facts and compiled its report, the information would be somewhat out of date. 
Some of our major primary industries are faced with a combination of low prices and limited overseas markets. Often the lack of markets is due to the restrictive action of some governments in not allowing us to send our exports to their countries. This practice is forcing our industries to operate under a considerable handicap. These industries need assistance now, not 2 or 3 years hence. I would not hesitate to support the establishment of a royal commission if 1 thought such action would have any immediate effect and get our industries out of the trouble they are in at the moment. However it would not have any effect for quite some time - in my opinion, 2 or 3 years. 
Statements have been made at various limes about the alleged inefficiency of farmers. Under no circumstances would I agree that farmers generally were inefficient. The only way in which our primary industries have been able to keep abreast of rising costs since World War II has been by greatly increasing their efficiency. They have been very successful in this regard - so much so that in the last 20 or 25 years the volume of production from the farming sector has been doubled although the same work force has been employed. This has been due. in a large measure, to mechanisation. lt also has been brought about because primary producers have taken advantage of extension services, research, soil treatment, fertilisers and plant and animal breeding. f think  Senator Wilkinson  suggested that we should raise the managerial skills of our farmers. 1 believe that our present extension services and research work are bringing this about and that our primary producers are improving their managerial skills. The general increased efficiency of our primary producers has been contributed to by their hard work. The position is that a combination of increased costs in Australia and low prices overseas has made it difficult for our farmers to carry on under present circumstances. I believe a further extension of the principle of sharing Australia's prosperity is required to meet the situation. 
World surpluses and world shortages of food seem to alternate at regular or irregular intervals. We have now come to one of those periods of surplus, especially in the production of wheat and butter. I understand that Canada already has in storage twice our record wheat production. The amount of butter stored in the countries forming the European Economic Community could eliminate Australian butter from the United Kingdom market indefinitely if that country chooses to join the European Common Market. Some countries have greatly increased their food production and have applied tariffs or restrictions against our exports. The so-called free markets for our primary products are now somewhat limited. We have had to make trade treaties with many countries in order to be able to sell our primary products. I would like to quote a statement made by  Mr F.  O. Grogan, formerly First Assistant Secretary, Department of Primary Industry, and latterly Research Consultant. Department of Agricultural Economics, University of Newcastle-on-Tyne. He said, referring to the conditions in primary industry: 
I tlo not believe that these extremely difficult problems will by some miracle suddenly emerge from any one person's mind, bc he a farmer, politician or research worker. I think the only way that they will emerge is by patient examination of the facts and of the pros and cons of alternative courses of action. 
The problem of arriving at reasonably salisfactory solutions becomes even more  difficult'  when Ihe views and the interests of more than one country have to be taken into account. 
To continue with my remarks on the suggested royal commission, much would be involved in ihe scope of the inquiry which would have to cover many ramifications of the whole Australian economy, lt would have to deal with tariff protection and Government policy, it would have to cover freight costs, wages, handling costs to get the produce to the consumer here or overseas: and it would have to cover some important side issues, such as the incidence of death duties as they affect farmers. But in addition it would have an effect on other industries, one of which would be the machinery industry. The index shows that sales from the machinery sector of industry arc down considerably. I believe that is due to a large extent to the setback that primary producers are facing today. Honourable senators are aware that primary producers are at the end of the chain when buying or selling. Their net return for their product is arrived at after all costs - freight, selling charges and all the other things - have been paid, but when they have to buy anything they must pay city prices, in addition to which they must pay transport costs and other charges to get the product to their place of business. 
I suggest also that it is most important that any inquiry into primary industries must cover the effect on residents and business people in country towns who are so dependent on the rural industries. The wellbeing of the rural industries in particular districts is bound up with the wellbeing of the country towns serving those industries. The country towns and rural industries go hand in hand, and we want attractive and prosperous inland towns associated with our primary industries. As I have said before, the principle has been established that Australians who benefit from high tariff protection, unprecedented prosperity and over-full employment must share some of this prosperity with those who are engaged in primary industries. This is done through price support and marketing schemes. We may even have to consider extending these measures a little further because our primary industries today still earn 55% at least of our overseas income. Without that large part of our overseas income we would find it very difficult to carry on and to buy the products, raw materials and so on that we need for our factories. 
I believe that the amendment proposed by the Minister would be a better proposition than that contained in the motion. The Minister has told us what the Government has done to give help to a wide range of industries. But quite apart from any inquiry which might be held, the Government must be free to carry out such remedial measures as it thinks fit on a short term basis. Our primary industries in country districts deserve more support, lt is very difficult to know the immediate answer to the problem, but in view of the facts that 1 have stated I support the amendment moved by the Minister. I suggest that the Senate carry the amendment and allow primary industries to have inquiries at an industry level to see whether we can arrive at some sort of answer to the problem on a short term basis, rather than have a royal commission which I believe would take a long time in arriving at an answer. No solution can arrive soon enough for the majority of our primary producers. I support the amendment and oppose the motion. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport a question. What is the prospect  of Walkers Ltd., Maryborough, Queensland, getting a contract for its shipyards to build another vessel when the current contract to build a dredge is completed? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for External Affairs. In view of the proposal for Fiji to be granted independence in October and in view of Australia's substantial trade and business interests in that country as well as our interests in Nandi Airport, will the Government give early consideration to raising the status of our representation in Fiji? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been directed to an advertisement in today's 'Australian' signed by the Registrar of the University of Sydney in which he warns the public that material being circulated to the effect that Friday, 8th May, will be an open day at the University of Sydney is incorrect? The Registrar goes on to say that no invitation has been extended to high school students or anyone else to go to the University on that day, and that the University is private property. Will the Minister see that all steps are taken to protect the University from an invasion on that day which is not desired? 
I support this Estate Duty Assessment Bill. lt represents a big concession in a tax which has been very detrimental, especially lo the primary producing section of the community. While the Bill applies mainly to primary producers it also applies generally to other sectors of the community. Its general application is very important because it allows extended time to pay the duly at the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation, lt allows the time to be extended without the administrator, executor, or whatever the case may be, being required to lodge a large sum of money or bond or some security for payment. In some cases it is embarrassing and very difficult to comply with this provision. 
There is another reason why I say that the Bill applies mainly to the primary producers of the community. These people have their capital or nearly all their capital tied up in their businesses. For that reason they find it difficult to make a disposition of their estates during their lifetime. They have to carry on and in some cases it is very difficult to make provision for the payment of duty. One can take out life assurance or other forms of insurance but as the estate tends to get bigger the assurance ceases to have the full value. It merely increases the total value of the estate and so increases the rate of duty. The primary producer may be a man not long married, or one just building up his estate. He may die before he has time to make full provision for his wife and young children. He may be killed in a car accident. Usually this creates great difficulty because there are no other assets and in many cases the farm has lo be sold to pay the duty. 
As has been pointed out, this Bill was promised last year. 1 understand that its provisions will be retrospective to 25th September 1969. The Bill sets out in considerable detail how a rural estate will qualify under its provisions. It spells out clearly how the gross value of the rural property section must be more than half of the gross value of the estate to qualify for the rebate, lt lists the kind of assets which will qualify as primary production assets or as rural property. It provides a 20% increase in the statutory exemption before duty is payable. That means that a farm or property worth $24,000 or less passing to near relatives - a widow, children or grandchildren - will be completely exempt from the payment of duty. There is really a bit more to it than that because the value of the property for purposes of Commonwealth duty is assessed after Stale duty has been paid. The procedure is for the administrator or the executor of the estate, as the case may be, to finalise his dealings with the State - that is the position in my State, at any rate - before he commences his dealings with the Commonwealth authorities. Whatever amount of duty is paid to the State authorities, whether it be large or small, is deducted from the value of the estate which the Commonwealth assesses for duty purposes. The basic value of an estate for duty purposes so far as the Commonwealth is concerned is $24,000. Commonwealth duty, as 1 have said, is "not payable if the estate, after payment of State death duty, does not reach that value. 
There is a very important departure in the matter of rebate. The rebate will be equal to 50% of the part of the duty which, by a process of direct apportionment, is attributable to rural property included in the estate. As I have mentioned, many estates would comprise almost wholly rural property. I know many of them which are in that category. Therefore the rebate will apply to a considerable number of primary producers' estates. 1 believe that the Commonwealth has adopted the principle which exists in the United Kingdom where I understand that the value of land, not the value of the rural section of the estate, is taken in at 50% of the sworn value. A problem which exists in relation to rural estates - this is the field in which there has been considerable inflation in the 25 years since the war - is that many farmers are not aware of the true value of their property. The property has appreciated but they still have in mind the duty that was payable 25 years ago. Therefore they do not realise what their estate will have to pay in duties by reason of the appreciated value of the property. The rate of duty does not follow a steadily increasing pattern as the value of the estate increases. Instead, it goes up at a considerable rate after the estate reaches a certain value. 
I know many farmers who have not taken this point into consideration and when I have tried to tell them what they might have to pay by way of estate duty they have become a little unbelieving. I have suggested to many of them that they have a rough valuation made of the property to see what their estate will really have to pay. Those who have done what I have suggested have been rather surprised at the amount for which the estate would be liable and the amount which would be left to their family. In some cases the property has had to be sold because there have been no other saleable assets. It is difficult to sell part of a farm or part of the livestock and maintain a proportionate income. For example, if one-third or one-half of a property is chopped off to pay the duty, you just cannot carry on with the income from the remainder. The income earning capacity of that asset has been destroyed. 
Another problem arises in the case of a man who dies in middle age and leaves a widow with young children. Many questions of the Commissioner's representatives have to be answered and in many cases of which I have knowledge it has been very difficult for widows with young families to provide the answers. If they were able to get advice I am sure that they would save duty on some items on which they have had to pay simply because they did not have the particulars as to value and so on which were required. 
The Bill provides what are called quick succession rebates. These will be a big help. I think they might have been applied in some modified form previously. The Bill provides that where the beneficiary of an estate dies within 5 years of succeeding to the estate, or part of it, the rate of duty on the 2 estates - the 1 he received and the 1 he leaves - is reduced by 50% if the beneficiary dies in the first year after having received the estate, and by 10% if he dies in the fifth year after having received it. That is a considerable concession. 
I should like to mention also the extension of time that is granted for the payment of estate duty. The Commissioner has considerable discretion. When the amount becomes payable, if the administrator or the executor can show that he is not able to pay at that time he can obtain an extension of time without interest being payable provided that he meets certain conditions. Let me mention also the matter of the valuation of estates. As is generally known, an approved valuer must swear to the valuation of the assets at the date of death. As I have pointed out, you deal with the State before you deal with the Commonwealth. It is not uncommon for up to 2 years to elapse before finality is reached, depending on the size of the estate and the amount involved. After the State's requirements have been met you then deal with the Commonwealth. It has been the practice in recent years for the Commonwealth to send out its own valuers. They do their best to revalue the property. Mind you, this is at a time anything up to 1 or 2 years later. I submit that even with the best of intenions in respect of many of the assets it is very difficult for a valuer to make a valuation as at the time of death, a year or two before. Perhaps some of the improvements may have been altered during that year or two. It is even more difficult to make any sort of assessment of the value of livestock or growing crops at that time. I believe these matters warrant attention. 1 have encountered them in my experience. 1 commend the Bill. As to the amendments suggested by the Opposition I do not think we would achieve anything by considering those points now. They refer to the relatively small farms in the rural sector'. 1 do not know what the word relatively' means in mat context. 1 have pointed out already that complete exemption is granted to farms up to a value of $24,000. if state duty has been paid shortly beforehand the level of exemption could be increased beyond $24,000. I think that the Senate should pass the Bill as it has been submitted to us and should reject the amendments proposed by the Opposition. I draw the attenion of honourable senators to the fact that the legislation will have retrospective application of about 8£ months. The relatives of people who passed on in that period will be able to get the benefit of the rebates and the other proposed concessions. Not only is provision made for individuals who own farms, but also for persons who have carried on primary producing activities through proprietary farm companies. They may also qualify for relief. The terms of qualification are spelt out in considerable detail. For all the reasons I have given 1 believe that this is a very good Bill. It is a breakthrough in concessions in respect of estate duty. I support it and commend it to the Senate. 
Let me put it this way: Full employment in the community - that includes potential shooters - and low prices for skins and kangaroo meat mean a build-up of kangaroo numbers because they are not being shot in the same quantities. On the other hand, high prices for skins and kangaroo meat and a slackening of employment drive more people out to shoot kangaroos and consequently there is greater destruction. It goes from period to period in cycles. I think the honourable senator will agree with that if he has had any experience of the inland areas. 
Despite the shooting that has gone on for many years, there has been no apparent diminution in the number of kangaroos. There has been a greater use of kangaroo meat as pet food in recent years. We know that that use has increased quite considerably. There were exports to some areas for a while, until the Commonwealth Government rightly stepped in and banned the export of kangaroo meat because we had no control over what use was made of it in other places and it did not come up to Australian meat export standards. I agree wholeheartedly with that action. 
One  speaker  has said that there is an apparent drop in the number of kangaroos in some areas at present because they have been shot in large numbers in recent years. But I do not think enough notice has been taken of the drought conditions which have existed for so long, particularly in Queensland. As I have already said, this has been the position over a number of years. The kangaroo population has built up naturally in the good seasons - even before European settlement - and the kangaroos have died out in great numbers in dry seasons. 1 believe that that probably accounts for the apparent shortage of kangaroos in the inland areas of Queensland today. 1 would not like to say that the apparent shortage is completely due to that factor, but I believe that much of it is due to that factor. 
There have been many car accidents involving kangaroos. Reference has already been made to armour plate protection on the bumper bars of cars. I think  Senator Georges  referred to that. One insurance company had so many claims in respect of cars hitting kangaroos that it sent one of its inspectors to investigate the position in the western areas. Of course, the inevitable happened: The inspector crashed, too. That was conclusive evidence of what the story was there.  Senator Wright  mentioned that kangaroos have a magnetic attraction for tourists. I hope that this story about a tourist will not apply to everybody: An overseas tourist's car hit a kangaroo and stunned him. The tourist wanted a photograph. So, as the kangaroo was sitting up - he was still stunned - the tourist took off his highly coloured coat, put it on the kangaroo and took the photograph. But, just as he was going to take the coat off again, the kangaroo hopped away - and he is still hopping with that coat on and with $100 of the tourist's money in the pocket. I hope that all tourists will not have that experience. 
As I have mentioned, I support some form of co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States, if it can be arranged, for the control of our national heritage type of animals on a national basis. We need co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States because, after all, the States are sovereign States and control their own areas. The Commonwealth has a big area to control in the Northern Territory. So it comes into this matter in quite a big way. That is my position on this urgency motion. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister give the Senate- any information about the reported loss of the export licences of 5 Australian meat works, including the names of those works, the reason for the loss of their export licences and the likely duration of time that they will be without their licences? 
Has the Minister for Air seen recently in a Queensland newspaper an advertisement calling for tenders for the supply of victuals for Royal Australian Air Force bases? Is he aware that in that advertisement calling for tenders no mention was made of butter? Could he indicate whether butter is used at RAAF bases? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport give any information to the Senate on the present whereabouts of the oil tanker 'Oceanic Grandeur' which went aground in Torres Strait recently? What amounts, if any, have been paid to the Australian authorities for cleaning up operations following the spillage of oil from that vessel? If no amounts have been paid for that purpose, is any action to be taken against the owners of the vessel to recover the cleaning up costs? 
1 wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister give the Senate any further information on the position of the Australian meat works which have had their licences to export meat to the United States of America cancelled? Have the proprietors of these works been given the reasons for the cancellation of their licences? In view of the number of people directly affected and threatened with the loss of their livelihood, such as stock producers, meat workers and people in associated industries, will the Government take all reasonable steps to ensure that exports of Australian meat to the United States of America are resumed on a normal basis as soon as possible? 
Has the Minister representing the Postmaster-General seen a statement in today's 'Australian' to the effect that the Postmaster-General has plans for Australian communications up to and beyond the year 2000? Can the Minister assure the Senate that top priority in those plans will be given to eliminating all those telephone exchanges which have restricted hours of service certainly not later than the mid-1970s, thus placing every Australian telephone user on the same basis of a 24 hours a day 7 days a week service? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question. I refer to the recent announcement that some Australian meat export plants had had their licences to export meat to the United States of America cancelled. 1 now ask the Minister whether any of those licences have been restored. 
I support this motion for disallowance. As honourable senators know, I am a member of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee which is appointed from both sides or this Parliament to scrutinise regulations and ordinances. If these are found wanting under any one of several headings in our terms of reference we have to draw the attention of the Senate to the matter and move for disallowance if we think this necessary. With regard to the timetable of this particular set-up, the legislation to set up the Flight Crew Officers Industrial Tribunal was introduced in October 1967 and, 1 presume, was passed shortly afterwards. Now, Professor Isaac was appointed on 9th February 1968. That is well over 2 years ago. 
That was the Tribunal. Professor Isaac was appointed on 9th February 1 968. There was some trouble about the fixing of fees. ] am just going through the timetable so honourable senators will understand the full set-up. The fees were finally agreed to in about April last year, I understand. Instructions were then given to the Parliamentary Draftsman to provide a regulation covering these fees, lt was suggested that this regulation should bc gazetted in the final Budget session of the last Parliament before it was dissolved but owing to drafting difficulties the regulation was unable to be provided and was finally gazetted on 8th January 1970. The point I want to stress is that somebody somewhere along the line authorised 2 payments to the Tribunal in May 1969 knowing full well - it must have been known - that no regulation had been gazetted and no regulation was in force. I want to separate the 2 payments made in May last year. They come to a total of $5,775. That was in the last financial year. I. am at a loss to understand why it has not been reported on by the Auditor-General, I just cannot understand that. 
On 1st July 1969, the first day of this financial year, another $1,350 was paid by somebody knowing full well that no regulation had been drafted, let alone gazetted. On 10th October 1969 a further $ 1,200 was paid. I want to make it quite clear here that we are not questioning the payments. The Tribunal was entitled to them; I think that would be generally agreed. We are questioning the way it was done under the terms of reference of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. The second of those  1  payments was made on 10th October 1969 and the regulation was gazetted on 8th January 1970. On 23rd January 1970 a further $1,425 was paid and on 17th April 1970 a further $1,500 was paid, making a total of $11,250. The last 2 do not come into question at all because the regulation had been gazetted. I would just like to establish  a  fine difference in relation to retrospective ordinances or regulations, lt is all right, I presume, to make a retrospective regulation and authorise payment for a reasonable time in retrospectivity provided no payment has been made up till that date, but I believe that if a payment has been made it has been made without authority. That is one of the reasons why 1 believe the Auditor-General should have reported on it. J just cannot understand that particular aspect. 1 suggest that the only way now out of this set-up that has arisen is for the Government to pass a validating Act authorising these payments - all of them if the regulation is disallowed, or those prior to 8th January 1970 if some other action is taken. 1 believe there is no other way out of this. The money has been paid. We are not questioning the entitlement of the Tribunal to receive this money; I am not, anyhow. The other points, to my way of thinking, do not arise at all - the question of the urgent necessity to have the tribunal appointed, the threatened industrial trouble or anything like this - because they do not come within the terms of reference of the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. For that reason I support the motion for disallowance of the regulation and I suggest that immediate validating legislation be introduced to overcome the difficulty. 
 1  direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. ls the action of the Government of Canada in lifting exchange controls likely to have much effect on Australia's trade with that country? Will Canada's action have any effect on the International Grains Arrangement insofar as it affects Canada's wheat exports? 
 I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in this morning's Press that the Royal Navy fleet oil tanker 'Ennerdale' which sank on a sandbank in the Seychelles Islands in the Indian Ocean is spilling oil into the sea, threatening the fishing industry and the coastline? As wrecks of this type constitute the greatest pollution threat to the Australian coastline, the Great Barrier Reef, the fishing industry, pearl culture and marine life generally will the Minister endeavour to have an observer from the Australian Government go to the Seychelles to see how the spillage is dealt with so that the information gained can be used in a possible future similar accident in Australian waters? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to recent statements in the Press, especially in the last few days, concerning the introduction of synthetic meat to the Australian market? As the statement also mentions that $2,000m will be invested in synthetic meats in the United States in the near future will the Minister take steps to see that the subject of synthetic meat is put on the agenda for the next meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council so that a suitable policy on the subject as between the Commonwealth and the States can be formulated? 
I ask the Minister for Works and Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities a question. Has any decision been made about a possible Government take-over of the Charles Kingsford-Smith exhibit in Kings Hall, or is any early decision likely to be made on that subject? 
I support the Bill. I think it will mean wonderful development for that area of Queensland in which I live and to which its provisions are directed - the Gladstone area. I think the Bill presages big development in that area. I deprecate those who have no faith in Queensland and those who try to knock the scheme. An agreement was made before the Bill was introduced. Some time ago the negotiations were held. The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  in her second reading speech, said: 
The result of these negotiations is that the Queensland Government has satisfied the Commonwealth that major export oriented industries are likely to be attracted to central Queensland through the provision of the low cost power. 
What has happened since then, I contend, has nothing to do with the case. We are debating an agreement that was made some time ago and a Bill that was brought in on the strength of the agreement. Again I deprecate those who try to knock the scheme.  Mr Chalk  has said already - and he must have some inside knowledge of the negotiations with the expert companies - that the power house is likely to be too small even before it is completed. That indicates how much development will take place. The power house must be designed in such a fashion that it can be added to and expanded easily. In that area of my home State development in recent years has been so fast that it is ahead of services. One of the services is electricity supply. With the construction of this power house we hope to catch up with that lag. 
It has been made quite clear that the Federal help for the power house is not for ordinary expansion to supply domestic and industrial power that ordinarily applies to the normal expansion of power development in the various States. This offer to Queensland is on the condition that the Queensland Government attract major export oriented industries. The Queensland Government apparently has shown the Commonwealth Government that it can do that. The power must be produced at a low cost per unit  -  I do not suggest it will be produced at. a loss - otherwise industries will nol be attracted. That is only natural. I also understand that hig changes are forecast in Queensland's electricity supply service. At present an area extending from Mackay to the north of Cairns and into a large part of the hinterland is connected in one grid. Other systems operate in the Wide Bay area, in the Capricornia area and in the area serviced by the Southern Electric Authority of Queensland. I understand that the proposal is that the whole of the southern area, except that area supplied by the North West County Council in New South Wales, is to bc put on one grid. That will mean that the proposed power house will be interconnected with the Wide Bay, Callide and Ipswich power stations. All will be interconnected into one big grid. The State Electricity Commission of Queensland will fake over the generation of power in Queensland, leaving the regional Boards to handle the distribution. Very large transmission lines are being built in the area. In the area in which I live a 415,000 volt transmission line is being surveyed to supply the central highlands area - the coalfields and the other places in that, area - wilh a view eventually to taking over what is known as the central western system which is based on Blackall, Barcaldine and Longreach. That system is proposed to be brought into the grid in the not too distant future. 
The whole of the central Queensland area is rich in minerals. One of the richest goldmines in the world was at Mount Morgan. The biggest gold producer in Queensland today is in Cracow in Central Queensland. Steaming and coking coal underlies almost the whole area of the Dawson and Mackenzie River system. In fact, it extends from near Maryborough to Bowen. It is a very big coal area. One of the attractions of these coal seams is that white a large pari of the coal is coking coal suitable for slee making and export, a large part is steaming coal. In many places the steaming coal is superimposed on the coking coal. The people who mine the coking coal have to stockpile the steaming coal. They have no use for it. The power house will put to use that coal which is not sold. The power house will be able to purchase at a very low price the steaming coal which is on top of the coking coal for use in the power house and so keep down the cost of generation. 
Other minerals in the area will be developed as time goes on. Already huge quantities of copper have been taken out of Mount Morgan. There is copper in other places. Quite a lot of prospecting for copper is going on. This will be affected bv the development of the power house. It may be possible lo mine an;i treat u much larger quantity of minerals than hitherio has been the case. Australians are lucky in 1hat a lot of our mineral deposits are in close proximity to or not far away from tidal waters. Bauxite, particularly at Weipa, as has been mentioned already, is close to the s-i-a and consequently a good deal of the transport problems are solved. It can be loaded directly into the ships and taken to the industrial areas for treatment. Large quantities of coking coal are in relatively the same position. The coal deposits are handy to the coast. We hope that major industrial development will take place in the area. The Fitzroy basin has many sites suitable for storing water. That includes not only the Fitzroy River but also its tributaries. Some storages have been established already. These will lead to the development of electricity and cheap power. There is a dam on the Callide Creek where the Callide power hour. is. Owing to the prevailing dry seasons this water scheme has noi been assuccessful as it could be because the dam has never overflowed. If normal seasons return there will be more water there. The Fitzroy River barrage at Rockhampton has been completed and will make available at a very low cost some of the largest quantities of water available for industrial purposes anywhere in Australia. 
It is. senator, because I was linking ii with the power-house and industrial development. 
The Emerald complex is under construction. It will have a lot to do with the powerhouse because it will use electric power in a big way in farm development there. The Minister in his second reading speech has referred to the value of aluminium - the finished product. - as against alumina which is produced at present. In the first stage of production by the refinery at Gladstone, about 240,000 tons will be produced wilh a value of about $126m. In the second stage production is expected to reach about 320,000 tons, with a value of about 165m. I consider this to be good value for a Commonwealth investment of $80m. Pyrites from the Mount Morgan mines and salt from the large deposits at Bajool are available and suitable for use by a fertiliser works. The Dow Chemicals organisation has been mentioned in connection with a fertiliser works in the Gladstone area. 
Construction of the powerhouse, the subject of this legislation, must highlight the necessity for us as Australians to build in our national interest 2 steelworks, 1 on the Queensland coast and 1 on the Western Australian coast. It will be necessary to run a shuttle service of ships to take coking coal to Western Australia and iron ore pellets to Queensland. In this way we can export the finished steel products instead of the raw materials, as we do at present. I believe that that stage must come. It is part and parcel of our development After that stage has been reached, when a large quantity of cheap steel should be available, we could go on to establish heavy industries in the area. 
The projected powerhouse complex must speed the development of central Queensland, through both secondary and primary industries, to the mutual benefit of all. Some of the towns which will benefit directly and indirectly from the project are Moura, Blackwater, Goonyella, and Emerald which is making rapid progress with the help of an irrigation scheme. Projects such as this bring population and money, along with development of the area. That development results from a combination of the factors I have mentioned. A major meat company has decided to build a meatworks at Emerald. This is all part of the development, but it is only a start of what is to follow. It will continue and will accelerate. It will make that part of Australia one of our great industrial areas and one of the most highly developed. I have much pleasure in supporting the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the announcement on the radio today that European Economic Community countries have invited the United Kingdom to apply for membership of the organisation, and the fact that this means so much to Australia in the matter of trade, will the Australian Government endeavour to have an observer present at any negotiations between Britain and the countries of the European Economic Community which are not held in closed conference? 
1 ask a question of the Minster representing the Minister for Health. In view of the great interest shown by large numbers of patients and by some doctors who are not members of the Australian Medical Association in relation to the most common fees to be charged by the medical profession, will the Minister arrange to table before the end of the session or, if this is not possible, to distribute to members of the Parliament and to the Press the list of most common fees agreed on for each State? 
I rise briefly to support this Bill which provides for the establishment of an Australian Institute of Marine Science. I think it is a very good thing for the area that this Institute is to be established in Townsville and that it is to work in co-operation with the James Cook University of North Queensland. This Institute of Marine Science is designed to cover quite a wide area of research. The Great Barrier Reef is mentioned in the Bill, and obviously various phases of research will be carried out in and around the Barrier Reef. But as 1 understand the Institute, it is to cover research into the whole possible harvest of the sea - the sedentary sea life and the moving fishes. In fact, it will carry out research into the whole fishing industry and the migration and habits of fish. Very little is known about this aspect of marine research. Nothing much has been done in the past. Not much is known about how far the fish migrate and other things such as ocean currents. Little is known of the effect of ocean currents on the habits of fish and other types of sea life, and the temperature of the water in various areas. All this will be covered by research by this proposed Institute. Some kind of boat or boats will be needed to cover the work to be done by this Institute. 
In the last year or two this Parliament has acquired a very large area of ocean territory and islands under the Coral Sea Islands Act. That territory covers a considerable distance to the north east of Australia. I feel that research into that newly acquired territory will be very valuable in the future. We know very little about it now. I presume this will be a long range proposition. It will take some time to report on the findings, which will be of lasting value to this country and to other countries which are interested in this type of research. Clause 7 (2.) of the Bill states: 
In making recommendations with respect to the functions of the Institute, the Interim Council shall give consideration to the need for information and research in relation to the biological and physical aspects of marine science, with particular reference to information and research concerning the effects of exploration for, or exploitation of, oil and other minerals, and of fishing operations, on or in the vicinity of the Great Barrier Reef. 
This implies that marine research will not necessarily be confined, as we might imagine, to fishing, water temperatures, food on the seabed and everything like that. It could be extended under this clause to cover the search for and exploitation of oil and other minerals. If the Institute of Marine Science is to conduct research over such a wide field it should check on possible oil slicks from boats such as the boat which went aground in Torres Strait recently and discharged a quantity of oil. It could go further than that and check on the effect of detergents and other things which are used in dealing wilh oil slicks. Research could be carried out into their effect on the various form  of  fish life, coral, and other sea life. These forms of sea life could be disastrously affected by some forms of detergent, as has been found in other parts of the world. 1 hope that the Institute will be established in the not loo distant future and that it will be able to add to the scientific knowledge of this country over a wide field. I hope the knowledge will be availed of by Australia for many years to come. I believe this is a very good Bill, and I support it wholeheartedly. 
Has the Minister for Air seen reports in today's Press of alleged ill-treatment of airmen at some centres? Can the Minister give any further information to the Senate on the matter? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for National Development inform the Senate what progress has been made with the investigations into the known deposits of phosphatic rock in the Yelvertoff area near Cloncurry in Queensland? 
Can the Minister representing the Postmaster-General inform the Senate how soon the television transmitters at Hughenden, Julia Creek, Cloncurry and Mount Isa will be in operation in view of the fact that the microwave relay to Mount Isa is to become operational in December next? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister seen reports in the Press that the price of wheat on the international market has risen by nearly $4 a ton in the last few days? Can the Minister confirm that there is a strong demand for Australian wheat in the United States of America and a general world increase in grain prices? 
I should like to say a few words on the Budget, but first I propose to comment on the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I believe that this is a very weak amendment. It refers to a deceptive and" negative Budget and mentions that it introduces increased taxes and charges of a regressive and inequitable nature. In opposing the Budget the Opposition has taken the unprecedented step of taking industrial action as a political protest.. Honourable senators opposite have called it a 'rally', but really it was a strike. It has been referred to as a peaceful demonstration', but peaceful demonstrations can get out of hand. Despite much publicity the Budget protest cum strike - call it what you like - as a demonstration was a damp squib and fell far short of the promoters expectations. As evidence of this I refer to the leader in the Sydney Morning Herald' of today's date which states: 
Yesterday's national 3 hour Budget strike - a conspicuous waste of time and money, as the impressive number of trade-unionists who stayed away from public gatherings must have sourly reflected. . . . 
A little further down it quotes from  Mr Whitlam's  speech and states that he blamed the Government for practically everything, except the weather. That must have been an oversight. Some members of the Opposition have claimed the right to use the streets for demonstrations. 
Others have rights too. Nobody has a licence to disrupt the lawful business of others by blocking the streets. The once great Labor Party for so long stood for arbitration. Its members believed in it and made it a major plank of their platform. But what happens now? They stand by while there is resort to industrial action and strikes. The Australian Council of Trade Unions is systematically extracting greater and greater rates of pay, allowances, overtime and overaward payments from employers. The ACTU systematically holds sections of business to ransom. There is a remarkable concentration on the transport industries. It is believed that they are very vulnerable as they are a means of inconveniencing large numbers of people. 
We now have the Opposition lending itself to activities and taking an active part in things which flout the laws. We are fast arriving at the position in Australia where we as a nation will have to make up our mind whether we want, to maintain law and order in the country or to have anarchy and the rules of the jungle. I should like to quote a couple of extracts from the 'Canberra Times' of today's date. I refer to an article by Rohan Rivett who refers to Melbourne, a city of fear. The report states: 
Violence and the threat of violence, quite outside the activities of criminals, is flourishing in Melbourne this winter. 
Police and courts observers believe that  a  number of young people, who have never fallen foul of police or courts before, now accept the thesis that the only way to attract attention to abuses and inconsistencies is through violence and threats. 
Action is not restricted to links with anticonscription drives and opposition to the Vietnam war. Federal, State and municipal premises and individual officers have been the targets of attack or have received threats by phone or letter. Mining companies, banks, and officialdom in several  walks of life - including sport - have had a taste of the jungle law approach. 
What has alarmed educationists and other authorities is that a variety of Melbourne groups, not obviously connected, have all resorted to tactics which defy the law and bring a physical threat and mental anxiety to innocent citizens. 
It goes on to mention an organisation called the People's Liberation Army. In another place it says: 
Violence on trains and on unmanned station platforms has caused thousands of commuters, men and women to abandon rail travel after dark once the peak period if over. 
I also mention the spectacle of what have been called treason rooms. I believe that these are set up in the capital cities - in trades halls and other places - to advise young men how to evade their national service obligations; in effect, how to break the law. 

 Senator Willesee referred at great length to the effect that he says the reduction in income tax will have. He said that we should have a look at the submissions of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on this matter. I have a copy of them here. It seems that now when the Government has conceded pretty well all that the ACTU asked for in those submissions, it is still not satisfied. In regard to social service payments, I believe that they should have a loading attached to them in taxation zones A and B, where the cost of living is greater. This would compensate pensioners who elect to live in those areas in their retirement rather than retire to the coastal areas or other places. 
I refer now to the plight of the wool growers in Queensland who have suffered from drought for so long and now find that the market for wool has collapsed. A major rescue operation in this industry has become necessary. I am pleased to see an allocation of $30m in the Budget as a 1-year scheme of emergency relief. I quote the following extract from the Budget speech: 
The scheme is regarded as an interim measure pending consideration of other possible action appropriate to the longer-term problems of the woolgrowing industry. In particular, the Government is examining the need for reconstruction in the wool industry, including as one aspect of reconstruction the question of growers' indebtedness, and of ways in which the Commonwealth can most effectively assist. The Minister for Primary  lndutry  will submit a report to the Government on these matters. The Government will also examine all aspects of the setting up and operation of the proposed statutory wool marketing authority. These investigations will be pursued as matters of urgency. 
It is interesting to note that despite all the crocodile tears of the Opposition  Mr Whitlam,  in his speech on the Budget, covered the whole rural industry sector in 39 words. I wish to emphasise that. I ask this question: Is this all the interest the Australian Labor Party has in this major sector of the economy? 
The . honourable senator may read them on page 474 of Hansard for the House of Representatives of yesterday's date. With the combination of drought, low wool prices and wheat problems, we now have a section of our people who, through no fault of their own are almost on the bread line- 
I do not think the Government could make it rain. The honourable senator should be a bit reasonable. At the same time the rest of our people are enjoying over-full employment and unprecedented prosperity. The continued strikes and industrial blackmail in the more prosperous sections of industry are not winning any friends in the rural areas. As well as there being problems in the rural sector, residents of country towns whose wellbeing or otherwise is so closely related to primary production are suffering and people are leaving the country towns. The Federal Government has agreed to continue Federal assistance to Queensland for drought relief measures on the same basis as last year. I do not think the plight of the people in the worst drought areas of western Queensland is fully appreciated in much of the rest of Australia. In addition to our wool problems, the wheat industry in my State is in a very bad way. 
The great rural industries have contributed much to the present prosperity of Australia and the earning of our overseas income over a very long period. The rural industries still earn a large section of our overseas income. With our industrial development and the high tariff protection that goes with it, there has to be a sharing of this prosperity between industrial and rural areas. There has been such a sharing up until now in the form of subsidies, bounties and organised marketing schemes. It is a principle already well established. In order to preserve a large section of our rural industries, an extension of this principle will probably be necessary. I hope that a long range plan of reconstruction will be drawn up soon. The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  mentioned that expenditure in relation to rural industries is estimated at $215m in this financial year - an increase of $77m on the expenditure last year. 
I mention now the matter of country telephone lines. I propose to quote a statement made by the Postmaster-General's Department which is of great importance to country telephone users. The statement is as follows: 
Under a revised policy the Post  office  will, at its own expense, provide and maintain lines for telephone exchange services up to a radial distance of IS miles from the appropriate exchange. lt will also provide and maintain lines extending beyond the 15 miles radial distance but, in these cases, the subscribers concerned will be required to pay a flat rale once-only charge of $40 for each radial quarter-mile beyond IS miles. 
These arrangements will apply retrospectively from 1st. January 1969 in that suitable adjustments will be made with subscribers who have had their lines constructed or upgraded to Post Office specifications since then. These new arrangements will also be applied by the Post Office when the work of upgrading or reconstructing private sections of other existing subscribers' exchange lines is undertaken. 
This is a major breakthrough in policy regarding rural telephone users. They are put on the same basis as their city counterparts. The action of the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  in this matter is much appreciated. This will replace the points system which acted so unfavourably towards the person furthest away from the exchange. We concede that there is a necessity for the re-building and upgrading of country subscribers' telephone lines to keep pace with the transfer of the telephone system throughout Australia to automatic working. The aim is to have the system fully automatic in the next few years. The cost to country telephone subscribers of upgrading their lines was becoming prohibitive. Had action not been taken in this Budget to assist them, many would have had to give up their telephones. 
I now wish to refer to the call charges In some rural areas. When new, small automatic exchanges are installed and subscribers are re-grouped, quite often the ordinary local call rate of 4c is eliminated for calls to the big centre of production where those people do business. I believe that where a subscriber on the existing set-up has the right to the local call rate for calls to the big centre of production, his right to that rate should be allowed to continue even if to do that it is necessary to connect his line to a new exchange a little further away. My Party asks that where a local call rate was payable before a new exchange was built, that rate should be continued. 
We believe that as a long range policy only 2 rates should be charged for telephone calls throughout Australia. The first of these would be calculated on the ELSA system - the extended local service area system - under which the untimed local call method could be extended to take in all centres of big business where all the common business services are available. The other charge would be on the basis of a timed 3-minute call to anywhere in Australia at a flat rate. We believe that this could be done for as little as 30c. To some people that might seem a small amount to pay to ring, for instance, Western Australia, but the principle of the application of a maximum rate has already been established. [ refer to the charge of $1.80 for calls, irrespective of distance, to anywhere in Australia. Where microwave links and coaxial cables are used there is no problem with trunk lines. Hundreds of them are available in many areas. However, if the first system of charging I have proposed is to work, many more feeder trunk lines will be necessary. 
The argument that the number of calls under the flat rate plan could not be handled is unsound. I remind honourable senators of the introduction of penny postage in 1840. It was said then that the volume of letters would be too great to be handled. In fact, the volume of letters was far greater than was anticipated; but it was handled, and very profitably. The same principle would apply to flat rate trunk calls. The sheer volume of calls would make the enterprise workable and profitable for the Postal Department. 
Recently I travelled in north western Queensland, in the Gulf country, and saw some of the development in that area. For example, I visited Mount Isa and found that a new town is being built 9 miles from Mount Isa, with a new mine and all the development that goes with it. The people there have decided that rather than try to extend Mount lsa. where insufficient housing is available, they will develop a new town at Hilton 9 miles away. Another fast developing mining area in that region is Gunpowder. We are told that Mary Kathleen, which has been in mothballs for 7 or 8 years, is to be re-opened. The rapid expansion of mining and exports of minerals are earning overseas income for Australia and are helping to compensate for the temporary loss of export income through the present state of primary industries. 
I do not think it does very much. 
I do not think so. The microwave link is to bc extended to Mount Isa and will become operational in about 3 months. Four or five new television transmitters will be able to start transmitting programmes to a new area of Australia. The microwave link is to be extended to Tennant Creek and Darwin and the national television relays will then be established in additional areas. 
I would like now to mention the great expansion of transport development with money provided by the Commonwealth for beef roads. In the Peninsula area of Queensland big areas have been opened up and a remarkable transformation has occurred in the use of land there. It is remarkable to see what has been done in a few years through the construction of long stretches of bitumen road. These have made it possible to transport stock over long distances very quickly. T have referred to the Peninsula area of Queensland before. Some money has been allocated for beef roads in that area. A new province could be opened up in northern Queensland above Cairns if a good road were built to Weipa and beyond. I believe that the Budget is sound and provides for all sections of the community. It will mean the continuance of sound government, and continued development and expansion. I believe that it has the support of a large majority of our people. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: In view of the outbreak of cholera in several parts of the world, including Africa, and the reported likelihood of it spreading to Europe, and having regard to the changed conditions which have been brought about as a result of air travel, which was not in existence during earlier major outbreaks of cholera, will the Minister assure the Senate that Australia's quarantine authorities will redouble the precautions they take at airport and shipping terminals to keep this dreaded disease out of Australia? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior ascertain from his colleague and advise the Senate whether the pedestrian crossing traffic lights on Commonwealth Avenue adjacent to the Hotel Canberra are to be replaced when the new roadworks are completed? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral been drawn to a report in today's Press of an incident in Brisbane yesterday in which 40 students are reported to have barricaded themselves inside the Quensland University Regiment building and destroyed files and done other damage? As this building is Commonwealth property and as a spokesman for a group known as the Revolutionary Socialist Students Alliance claimed that files had been stolen and that the students may take over the building again next week, will the Minister invoke any necessary laws to protect Commonwealth property and to prevent further incidents such as this which are so alien to the Australian way of life? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. What special precautions, if any,, have been taken to protect Australian lives and property in the event of any Qantas Airways Ltd aeroplanes being hijacked? Does insurance cover these planes and personnel should hijacking take place? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate of the purpose of the meeting in Sydney today between representatives of all States and the Commonwealth at which it is understood an Australia wide policy on drought and associated problems is being discussed? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to an advertisement in the Melbourne 'Sun' of today's date, signed by Bob Lundberg, the State Secretary of the Federated Ironworkers Association of Australia, in which he advises his members that the Moratorium does not have the support of the trade union movement and that they should resist any attempt to take them away from work against their wishes? Does this not indicate a great weakening of support for the Moratorium and also that, it is opposed by a great majority of Australians? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have not had the advantage of seeing the advertisement in the newspaper, but I have had the advantage of reading in the Press, for instance, that the Labor movement in South Australia has dissociated itself from this Moratorium Campaign, and that other unions have indicated that they are not supporting it. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONGive me a bit of time and I will dredge up the information. T do not wish to engender any great heat in this issue at all. T merely want to say that what we on this side of the Parliament have maintained all along about the value or otherwise of this Moratorium Campaign has obviously been accepted now by the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement. I think that good sense is beginning to prevail. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to some episodes at last Friday's Moratorium march in Brisbane when the small contingent of people from the University of Queensland, on arriving at the assembly point from where they were supposed to tag along behind the trade union members, decided instead to go on ahead and lead the march? Did the trade union members have great difficulty in keeping up with the younger people from the University? Did this not have the effect of making the so called Moratorium demonstration an even bigger farce and an abject failure? Did not the silent majority that stayed away in such large numbers make it clear that the majority of Brisbane citizens were not interested in the Moratorium? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI must admit to the fact that I have not been given, nor have 1 read, any information on the circumstances in Brisbane on Friday. I can well understand that the youthful ones who stepped out in front would leave the oldies behind a bit. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not a fact that the great majority of Australians are law-abiding citizens? As the rights of this silent majority of Australians are being jeopardised by a few radicals and fellow travellers, who apparently are supported by some members of the Opposition, will the Minister ensure that the Government takes steps to protect the rights of the great majority of Australians to go about their lawful pursuits unhindered by this noisy minority. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Is there any restriction on the import of meat substitutes into Australia? Can these products be freely imported from any country? Is there any Australian import duty on products of this nature? 
I desire to ask a  question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As all Commonwealth departments use the Press extensively for public advertising, such as advertisements giving information to the public, inviting applications for positions and so on, will the Minister investigate the possibility of instructing the various departments to give at least some Government advertising to the smaller newspapers, particularly those published tri-weekly, bi-weekly and weekly, rather than practically confine that advertising to the dailies, as is done at present? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to certain allegations by the  Speaker  of the House of 
Assembly of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea concerning his treatment by certain customs officers in Brisbane? Is no provison made for goods in transit through Australia - to Fiji in this case - to be held in some form of bond? Could not provision be made for goods in the nature of gifts to a new country to be exempt from scrutiny, provided that no quarantine matters are in question? Will the Minister arrange for a full report to the Senate on this incident? 
1 desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the further fall in the last few days in the price of wool both at auction and on the futures exchange? Will the Minister give further consideration to the plight of so many wool growers and the serious decline in Australia's balance of payments and determine whether any additional assistance cun be given to the wool industry to arrest the decline in prices? 
Can the Minister for Civil Aviation inform the Senate whether new runways are planned for Brisbane Airport? If the answer is yes, when is construction of these new runways likely to commence? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether his attention has been drawn to the fact that the police received a phone call stating that there were bombs on certain northbound flights out of Brisbane on Sunday morning last. A search of these planes and all freight, luggage and passengers' hand baggage proved this report to be false. What action does his Department take to track down and severely punish these despicable persons who cause such disruption and worry to airlines and passengers? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport take steps to ensure that the Australian authorities keep in close contact with the United Kingdom authorities about developments concerning the Liberian registered ship 'Pacific Glory', which is reported to be in danger of spilling 77,000 tons of crude oil into the English Channel, as this information could bc of use in a possible future mishap in Australian waters? 
Has the Minister for Air seen an inaccurate report in the 'Australian' newspaper of today's date that he will not be a candidate for the coming Senate elections on 2 1 st November? Will he make his position clear so that the electors of Western Australia will be assured that they are to have the advantage of retaining an honourable senator experienced in the administration of Government? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen a report that the British Government is to place duties and quotas on some exports of primary products from Australia to the United Kingdom? What effect is this decision likely to have on our export trade to the United Kingdom and on some of our primary industries? 
Would it be possible for the Leader of the Government in the Senate to obtain for the Senate an estimate of the possible cost to the nation of a 35-hour week, especially that part which is concerned with primary industries which already are hard pressed? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI have seen figures which indicate what the application of a 35-hour week would mean in short term. I am not in a position to quote them now. nor am I certain as to the accuracy with which it can be estimated. So I cannot help the honourable senator very much in that regard. I do not think anybody - even the Australian Labor Party - would deny the implications of this proposal to rural industries in the short term. It would pose a very real problem to rural industries, lt would have a profound effect upon the whole of the nation. 
I propose to speak very briefly on this series of Bills. I understand that the 6 measures are being taken together. Their purpose is to validate the collection of receipts duties by the Commonwealth on behalf of the States up to 30th September 1970. As  Senator Willesee  has said, this duty was declared invalid when it was contested by some of the States. The Commonwealth undertook to collect the duty on behalf of the States but, as honourable senators know, the Senate did not agree to this and rejected the legislation in June. A new arrangement has been made for the Commonwealth to reimburse the States for a certain amount to compensate for what they will have lost through not being able lo collect this tax. 
I should like to refer particularly to the position as it affects Queensland, lt was really a turnover tax, although it was called a receipts duty. It was to be charged at the rate of lc for each $10. The stamp duty which applied in Queensland was 2c for each $100. So this duty represents a five-fold increase on the original Queensland duty. Although Queensland passed a law to collect duty at the higher rate, the . law was never implemented. T. understand that the Queensland Parliament is in the process of repealing that law and that the Queensland Government has made a new arrangement with the Commonwealth. lt should be mentioned that the duty would have had some undesirable effects, perhaps more so in Queensland than in the other States. To businesses with a big turnover it would have meant a severe impost which I believe would have been passed on to the public. There would have been another undesirable effect in that the duty could have been charged several times on the one article. Because the charge was to be levied in the form of a turnover tax, as I understand the situation the tax could have been charged at the point of manufacture, at the point of wholesaling and again at the point of retailing. There was the further complication that between those payments of the tax a freight component could have been added to the price of an article. So we would have had the spectacle of the tax being charged each time a - freight charge was included. 
Since the new arrangements have been made there has been some confusion about the duty in Queensland. As I have said, Queensland proposes to repeal the legislation imposing the duty, but the people of Queensland are not very clear as to the rate of stamp duty to be paid in that Slate. I believe that there should be some clarification of that point. No doubt it is a responsibility of the State to do this, but it should make the position quite clear to the people of Queensland. I support these Bills up to the point of validating the collection of tax until 30th September only, but not beyond that dale. That is all I have to say on the matter. 
] support the Bill. 1 was interested to hear that the Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill despite the considerable criticism that honourable senators opposite have voiced. 1 hope that they are sincere and will give their full support and cooperation towards getting the scheme off the ground, and to making a contribution towards obtaining a better price for wool growers in an industry which means so much to all Australians. 1 note that this Bill is to set up a statutory body known as the Australian Wool Commission. The Commission is to be empowered to operate a flexible reserve price scheme for wool sold at auction. It is also to have many other functions. The idea for the scheme has come from the wool industry itself and haS" been accepted by the 2 federal wool growers' organisations. 
The Commission is to take over the function of the Australian Wool Marketing Corporation Limited, which operates the price averaging plan for small lots. This new body is being set up to market Australia's wool. It will control the whole industry. It marks a new and far reaching stage in wool marketing, lt is a completely new concept in the wool industry as we have known it in Australia over a long period. The proposed section 4(1.) provides: 
The object of this Act is to promote trade and commerce with other countries and among the States in Australian wool to the advantage of Australian wool growers and the Australian economy by means directed to encouraging and facilitating the purchase of Australian wool for the purposes of, or in the course of, that trade and commerce, and at the same time securing, in respect of wool purchased for the purposes of, or in the course of, that trade and commerce, prices that are not subject to undue fluctuation or irregularity and are at levels appropriate to the competitive position of wool in world markets. 
I emphasise the expression 'at levels appropriate to the competitive position of wool in world markets.'  Sir John  Crawford said in the course of his report: 
Under the present auction system wool growers are in a weak selling position as they have no  means  of  effectively  judging  the strength  of the  market  or of  testing it. 
The Commission also has power to sell woo) outside the auction system. This is a radical departure in wool marketing.  Senator Wilkinson  led for the Australian Labor Party in this debate. I do not think he was very convincing in some of his arguments. He quoted the ALP's policy on wool. He mentioned that there should be a statutory authority with a majority of wool grower control, but he did not say whether big and small growers would have an equal say in the election of growers' representatives. Honourable senators will remember that this was one of the problems which arose in 1965 in deciding who should have a vote, or whether big wool growers should have more votes than small wool growers. 

 Senator Wilkinson referred to a guaranteed price but did not say how it would be financed. It is interesting to note that each lc per lb in the price of wool represents about $20m in the total clip. When the honourable senator was referring to the cost of production and a guaranteed price. I think he confused those 2 .items a little, especially in answering an interjection. He did not mention that the extra cost would be a direct flow-on cost which the wool growers would have to meet if the Opposition's policy of a 35-hour week was introduced. The honourable senator went on to refer to the profits of Japanese textile firms. In answer to interjections he could not tell us whether the percentage profits referred to capital, turnover or working expenses. 

 Senator Wilkinson said that the ALP's policy would provide a capital fund but he did not explain whether the wool industry or the Government would have to provide it, or whether it would be found from somewhere else. He said that Labor's policy would overcome the cost disability of marketing wool for export. That is a very interesting section of Labor's policy, but no explanation was given of how it is to be arrived at. The policy involved in overcoming the cost disability of marketing wool for export was not explained. Is it to be a subsidy for wool growers? Who is to find the money for the subsidy? The honourable senator did not explain what will overcome the so-called cost disability. 

 Australian Wool 

But you said that was your policy and that that is what you would do. I realise that we should not live in the past but I remind honourable senators that over a long period the woo) industry has kept Australia solvent. It has provided much of the funds for our growth and development, lt has made possible the development of our rural towns and transport systems to many areas of inland Australia. As a nation we owe a lot to this industry and we must do something tangible to see that it can survive as an economic unit. Despite the competition of synthetics wool is still the best fibre. It is way above synthetics in the qualities required for its traditional uses. We are unique in this country in that our merino sheep industry has been adapted to many dry areas of the continent. I refer particularly to western Queensland. A lot of land used there to produce wool is incapable of diversification to any other industry except possibly cattle. It is essential that this industry be preserved and that the scheme set out in the Bill be made to work. 
I have no doubt that the scheme will have teething troubles. These problems will be ironed out. Unfortunately for many wool growers in Queensland that State has suffered a disastrous drought which has lasted in some areas on and off for 12 or 14 years. Many wool growers have been placed in financial difficulties through fighting the drought. Now they are confronted with the problem posed by a collapse of wool prices. They have to contend with those 2 problems. They may have been able to overcome one of them, but the two problems having arisen at the same time the wool growers have found themselves unable to cope. As has been explained already, the value of their properties had depreciated as a result of their reduced income and for other reasons. I was pleased that the Government provided $30m in the Budget as a carry-on measure for the wool industry. I think that much of the money will go to Queensland. 
As I have said, each lc a lb in the price of wool represents a total of nearly $20m, so it can be seen how much additional income the industry would receive if the 

 Commission Bill 1 779 price could be increased even to a level which would enable the industry to cover expenses, let alone make a profit. Just to break even would require an enormous amount of additional income. It is estimated that $115m will be required for the Commission by way of working capital in the first year, and about Si 8m to cover annual operating expenses. I am informed that there has been some appreciation in the wool futures market. Perhaps that indicates the beginning of a return of confidence. Perhaps it is associated with the Bill now before the Senate which could be having some indirect effect on the industry. In the closing paragraph of his second reading speech the Minister had this to say: 
The marketing reforms which this Bill aims to bring about, in conjunction with other measures now being pursued as a matter of urgency by the Government - such as debt reconstruction and farm adjustment - will assist materially in the rehabilitation of this great industry. 
I congratulate  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Primary Industry, on the work that he has done in bringing this proposal to fruition in such a short time despite the great difficulties which confronted him. 1 hope that it will turn the tide, restore confidence and be the start of what could be the long road back for wool growers and their industry. I commend the Bill. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen Press reports of the arrest of a foreign fishing vessel off the central Queensland coast? Is the Minister able to give the Senate more details of the incident? 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn lo a Press statement that a front bench member of the Labor Party in the other place has repudiated the policy of the Australian Labor Party for a 35-hour week by stating that this policy would not apply to primary industries? Would the Minister agree that if a large section of our people, namely the primary producing industries, cannot afford a 35-hour week, Australia as a whole cannot afford the luxury at the present time? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON- 1 have observed certain comments in the Press concerning the Labor Party's attitude to the 35-hour week.I have noticed that an Opposition member of the other place, who is a Queenslander representing a country constituency, has expressed his concern and shown reticence about the proposal, notwithstanding the fact that it is part of the Labor Party's policy and is contained in a document of that Party. All I can say is that I entirely agree with the proposal put by  Senator Lawrie  that if there is to be a proposition for a working week of so many hours it would apply in the rural area, and the rural area is vital to the whole Australian economy. Australia is a primary producing country which depends upon its exports. (Opposition senators interjecting) - 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI am getting a lot of help from interjections,  Mr President.  If the honorable senator believes in such a proposal he should go out and advocate it at the election, but that is another story and I do not want to be provocative. One interjection leads to another interjection, and I suppose that is fair. The fact of the matter is that any effect on our rural industries affects the whole of Australia because we export and we depend on our export capacity for the security of our economy. Any proposal which affects our rural industries must have a profound effect on Australia generally. 
35-HOUR WORKING WEEK 
 Mr Deputy President- 
I never thought that I would live to see the day when any honourable senator would depart so far from the subject of a Bill as did  Senator Cant. 
This Bill very largely is the result of representations that have been made to the Government by honourable senators from Queensland - mainly by  Senator Maunsell  and myself - because this matter concerns that State. We realise the position in which the primary producers in our State are placed and we have worked to have the Bankruptcy Act amended to assist them, despite what  Senator Cant  has said. This Bill will replace in the Bankruptcy Act much the same form of words as those in the old section 57a which was taken out of the Bankruptcy Act in 1966. I was a member of the Parliament at that time. When I inquired why the section was being taken from the Act I was told that it dated from the depression days of the 1930s and that it was unlikely that it would ever be required again. As I understand it, the old section 57a was designed to enable the Queensland Rural Reconstruction Board to take over the properties of farmers and graziers and to run them and rehabilitate them without the necessity of the farmers and graziers going through the Bankruptcy Court. I understand that that is the full and only purpose behind the Bill now before us. Of course some details connected with it will be tidied up. 
There has been mention of other funds being made available. Funds were made available previously because they were used to repay the debts of farmers which had been owing for a long time, and those funds have been held in trust ever since. The Queensland Rural Reconstruction Board, which is in the process of being appointed, will be able to function without any legal difficulties, and the Queensland Government will be able to put into effect its rural reconstruction policies and help the people whom we know are in trouble. We do not need to be reminded that the farmers are in trouble. 
The Minister has mentioned the effects of the prolonged drought in Queensland which has brought about the circumstances that have given rise to the introduction of this Bill. We made many representations to the Commonwealth Government to have the Bill introduced, and now that we have achieved that objective we want to see its provisions put into effect so that the Queensland Government can get on with the job. We know that, apart from the  drought, the farmers have been most adversely affected by the collapse in wool prices. That point too was mentioned in the Minister's speech. Recently the Australian Wool Commission Bill, which was designed to rehabilitate the wool industry, was before us. 
About $1.5m. 
We are not suggesting that it will solve all of the difficulties. Much more has to be made available. Other provisions in the Bill relate to arrangements made by a farmer for the administration of his property after he dies. As I have said, this Bill merely amends the Bankruptcy Act. In no sense does it take us on a world tour of rural industries and tell us what should be done about them. We know all about the problems confronting the rural industries. We have talked about them and we are working towards their solution. That is much more effective than mere talk. 
With the passage of this Bill the Queensland Rural Reconstruction Board - I have mentioned already that some members have been appointed - will be able to get under way. I assume that it will ask for additional funds. When the Board is fully constituted we hope that it will be able to help the farmers along the road back to prosperity from the depths to which they have fallen as a result of the long period of drought, the collapse of wool prices and the other troubles from which they have suffered. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to the salary increases of Brisbane city councillors of up to 71 per cent, and estimated to cost about $104,000 a year?  Will  this action add to Australia's inflation problems and help to nullify the Commonwealth Government's programme to combat inflation?  (Opposition senators interjecting) - 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONJ am gelling a lot of advice from the Opposition. I must admit, and J suppose that confession is good for the soul, that  I  am aware of the salary increases only to the extent of a Press report, which  I  read with raised eyebrows. 1 am not too sure about the national aspects of the increases, but  I  believe that the local ratepayers and electors of the City of Brisbane would have some concern about them. I have no doubt that they will be able to judge whether their chosen representatives are doing the right thing. Salary increases of about 71 per cent seem astronomical. Be that as it may, the second part of the question is more difficult to answer. The honourable senator asked about the effect the increases will have on our problems associated with inflation. Problems always arise when salary increases are not related to productivity.  I  wonder what form the additional productivity takes in this case. 
Can the Minister for Works tell the Senate what progress has been made with the construction of the cableway to the summit of Mount Bellenden Ker in the Cairns district of Queensland, and with the erection of the far  northern television transmitter on that site? When is the station likely to begin transmission? 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General a question. Has the Postmaster-General's Department turned a blind eye to mail services by courier from Australia during the current British postal strike? Has any announcement been made that no action will be taken against couriers and senders under the Post and Telegraph Act? Has the Postmaster-General seen an advertisement in the Australian Press by people offering lo take letters to various -places in the United Kingdom for $3 to $4 per oz? Has any check been made on the bona fides of these advertisers? What guarantee, if any, is available that letters will be delivered by the people offering courier services to the United Kingdom? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. As the Australian negotiators have now returned from negotiating a new international grains agreement has the Minister any statement to give to the Senate on the possible implications of this agreement for the Australian wheat industry? 
I do not have a statement to make today. I will make some inquiries. If a statement is made available during the next few days I will certainly read it in the Senate. 
 I wish to say a few words in support of the Bill, the purpose of which is to ratify the Sugar Agreement. I had the pleasure last Friday of attending the cane growers' annual conference in Brisbane. The conference, which was opened by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  is continuing. I should like to reply to a few points made by  Senator Milliner.  I would not wish to take credit from any of the previous Ministers, Premiers or governments of Queensland for what they have done to build up the sugar industry and the Sugar Agreement. (Quorum formed) 
I was saying that there have been 2 parties to the agreements - the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government - over a period of about 50 years. During the greater part of that time a Liberal-Country Party Government has been in power in the federal sphere. A good deal of the credit for sugar agreements negotiated over that period must go to the Government. 
To the Commonwealth Government, for making the sugar agreements possible.  Senator Milliner  did not fully understand the position that obtained in 1919 when there was a world shortage of sugar. Sugar was rationed in the Australian shops and the Prime Minister of the day is reported to have said to the Premier of Queensland: 'If your State will undertake to provide all the sugar for Australia's domestic requirements I will guarantee to protect your industry indefinitely.' That marked the start of the sugar industry which has since increased so much in size and efficiency.  Senator Milliner  asked why provisions similar to those we are debating could not be applied to the wool industry. I point out to him that the wool industry does not have a home consumption price. If it did, its situation would be a lot easier. 

 Senator Milliner said that much more should have been done in Queensland in the area of water conservation. I remind honourable senators that when we were debating the Burnett irrigation scheme last year attempts were made by honourable senators opposite to hold up its introduction. The purpose of this Bill is to continue the sugar agreement practice which has existed since just after World War I. The present agreement has run for almost 2 years, but that does not affect its validity. Any delay by the Commonwealth Parliament in passing the necessary legislation does not affect the agreement. Once it is agreed and signed, it has the force of law. 
The new agreement provides for increased payments by the Queensland Government towards the domestic sugar rebate. It is not generally realised that the Queensland Government is providing $924,000 annually towards the domestic sugar rebate as assistance for Australia's fruit canning industry. It is contributing also towards the overseas rebate. The sugar industry is in a fairly satisfactory position at present because of current prices. I checked the London price of sugar in today's Press. It is £Stg50 a short ton. About 4 or 5 years ago the price was as low as £St&amp;13 or £Stg 14 a short ton. On those figures the industry seems to be in a fairly profitable position but many other factors should be taken into consideration. 
Sugar growers incurred a debt of $23m through loans by the Commonwealth Government to support the local price when it was so low overseas. The industry is repaying the loans and will repay them in full. Many sugar growers have deferred commitments for machinery replacements. Machinery for use in the sugar industry is very costly and the growers have found it necessary to defer their purchases. They cannot be deferred forever and big expenditure will be necessary in future for machinery. During a period of low prices many growers incurred debts. That period coincided with a time of expansion. Those debts will have to be repaid. 
Has 'the attention of the Minister representing' the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the reported statement that fish and oysters in Botany Bay show a considerable content of chemical matter? I believe it is mercury, ls the Department of Primary .Industry taking any action as any foreign matter in fish and oysters is too much? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen in the Press a report that a Fellowship aircraft has been withdrawn by an airline from service in New South Wales due to lack of patronage? Will the Minister ascertain whether that aircraft could be diverted for service in Queensland where use could be made of its greater speed to cover longer distances serviced by Friendship aircraft at present? 
Has the Minister for 
Health seen an article in' the Press of yesterday's date stating that piranha fish from the Amazon area of South America were being offered for sale in Sydney at $25 each? As it is most undesirable for this fish to be introduced into Australian waterways, will precautions be taken to check that it is not allowed to be imported and will any known fish of this species in Australia be destroyed? 
I would like to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise with further reference to a question which I asked yesterday. Is the importation of South American piranha fish allowed or are they prohibited imports under the customs regulations? If they are not now prohibited imports, will steps be taken to have their importation into this country prohibited? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer a question. Will the Minister refer to the Treasurer the plight of the wives and families of deceased farmers and graziers who have suffered from drought and low wool prices? Many of these people are unable to raise any money to pay death duties. Will the Government give a sympathetic hearing to these people and allow thiem a very long extension of time in which to pay these duties? 
This question follows an earlier question asked by  Senator Webster  who referred to the incidence of Commonwealth death duties.  Senator Lawrie  has suggested that in certain circumstances in the primary industry area there should be an extended time in which death duties may be paid. I shall certainly refer his request to the Treasurer. 
Further to the question asked by  Senator Rae  about Bourke's Melbourne Pty Ltd, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate ascertain whether the Queensland Trades and Labour Council, the owner of radio station 4KQ, pays income tax on the profits earned by that station? 
I will get the information for the honourable senator. 
My - question is directed to the Leader of the, Government in the Senate. In view of world Press speculation about pressures on the United States dollar, will the Minister comment on the likely effect on Australian overseas trade if there is any devaluation of the United States dollar in the future? 
That is an interesting hypothetical question which I do not think should attact an answer at question time. 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a question. I refer to certain Qantas Airways Ltd pilots who are under notice of dismissal. Will the Minister ascertain whether Qantas is prepared to pay compensation to those trainee pilots under notice of dismissal who were forced to put up substantial bonds, provided either by their parents or by themselves, to be accepted and trained by Qantas and to stay with that company for 5 years? 
I support the Bills now before the Senate. They are very important Bills and I make no apology whatever for taking up the time of the Senate on such an important part of Australian industry so late in the sessional period when it is nearly finished. I think that this is a very important matter and that it should be debated thoroughly and looked at properly. Although the provisions in these Bills are not all that we have asked for it is a start and we must get the rural reconstruction scheme into action as soon aspossible. Many people have worked hard over a long period to bring about this scheme. It has not been easy and we want to see it in operation. Any amendment designed to delay this scheme should not be entertained in any way. I am rather surprised that  Senator Wilkinson  has moved that type of amendment which he has moved. He obviously does not understand the position in many of the rural industries in 
Australia. If his amendment were carried it would have the effect of delaying the commencement of this scheme for quite a considerable time, and this is something that we do not want. Let us get the scheme off the ground and get down to business. If we find that there are weaknesses in it we can move amendments to the legislation to tidy it up and strengthen it. 
Primary industries have only been able to survive since World War II by increased efficiency. They have doubled the volume of production in that period of 25 years without any increase in the work force. In that way they have kept pace with rising costs. Rising costs and falling world prices have caught up with primary industries generally and more especially the wool industry. The news tonight concerning the European Economic Community would seem to indicate that Great Britain has almost achieved her objective in being accepted as a member of the EEC. It was the most definite statement that I have heard on this matter. If it is a fact it will change the whole outlook of our primary industries and of our business generally. While many people have anticipated and have taken action to cope with it when it does happen, it is nevertheless catching up with us and there will be a great change in our way of life because of the difference in our trading operations in the future. 
I want to refer particularly to the effect that this scheme will have on those areas of inland Queensland which were mentioned by  Senator Maunsell.  This whole area has been described as a disaster area. This situation has been brought about by years of drought and the fall in wool prices. The area also has probably the highest average freight costs in Australia owing to the fact that the wool areas of western Queensland are probably further from the coast than is any other wool area in Australia. They are arid or semi-arid areas and so cannot be ploughed. This makes it very difficult to diversify except that possibly some areas could go into cattle. It would appear that unless something is done fairly soon a wholesale walk off from those areas is imminent, not only from the station properties and the farms but also from the towns. As has been mentioned, people have invested in the towns, in small businesses and in their homes. Naturally there will be no demand for homes in those towns so if they have to leave they will be unable to sell their homes. It is generally accepted that the well being or otherwise of the rural areas is interlocked with the wellbeing or otherwise of the country towns, and when the rural areas fail the country towns go down with them. 
In the areas I speak of large amounts of public money are invested. There is a big involvement of Federal and State governments and shire councils in railways, roads, public buildings, hospitals, schools, aerodromes and all those kinds of things. There will be a tremendous loss and writing off of public investment in those areas if something is not done to save them. The Australian Wool Commission has held the price of wool at about 30c a lb average but a much higher return than this is needed to make wool producers viable, to use the word that has been thrown about so much lately. Not only does a high return for the wool produced have to be achieved but also, to achieve any result in rural reconstruction, there must be some reduction in costs. One pf the things I have mentioned already in relation to this part of Australia is the high freights. Road and rail freights have increased along with other costs, and I believe that freights particularly have to be reduced to help producers in those areas. Freight has a twoway application. Firstly, everything brought into those areas becomes very expensive because of the high component of freight costs and the fact that in many cases sales tax is charged on the freight cost. Secondly, produce transported outwards - in this case wool - also attracts a very high freight rate. I believe that some help should be given to primary producers by a reduction in costs and by an endeavour to increase the price of wool. 
I understand that the Queensland Government has asked for a special grant of $10m to help bridge the gap between now and the time when this scheme will become fully operative. This is a holding action designed particularly to keep these people on their properties. Many of them already face the prospect of leaving. It is designed to keep the properties intact until some scheme can be developed under this Bill. I hope that an early decision will be made by the Federal Government to grant this help to Queensland. I understand that the Queensland Government has applied for this aid and that it has spelt out the details showing why it wants the money. As I said this is a type of holding operation designed, possibly, to pay living allowances - we might call them that - to people to keep them on their properties until such time as something else can be evolved. 
Tonight mention has been made of the possible effect of the changing setup in primary production. It was mentioned that this was a world wide trend. But I do not believe that we can afford to have a mass exodus from the land in any part of Australia. We must keep as many of these people as we can on the land. People in the rural industries have struck other troubles. Naturally there has been a big fall in land values in the rural areas and because of this the property owners have lost and equity they might have had in their properties. When land values were higher their debt could be handled, if they had a reasonable income, and if the debt was not too large. But when the value of the security drops by at least 50 per cent and the debt is still the same, the property owner does not have the same equity in his property. I am informed that the banks and the wool firms are having liquidity problems owing to the huge amounts tied up in unrealisable assets in the areas to which I have referred. This situation not only affects these immediate areas; it also affects lending throughout Australia for developmental purposes in other industries. When a lot of money is more or less frozen in particular areas the lending institutions cannot lend or use the money anywhere else. The inability to sell properties has prevented the creditors - mostly banks and wool firms - from realising on many of the properties and putting people off the land. That is why I suggest that, until we have some clarification of what is going to happen in the future, this holding operation becomes so necessary. 
I would like to refer briefly to the demands of death duties particularly on estates where death occurred some time ago. As honourable senators know the valuation is taken at the date of death. Consequently in addition to debts to wool firms and other people some of these property owners have a tremendous debt owing to the Commissioner of Stamp Duties who is trying to collect death duties from them although they do not have any assets at all. They have to pay death duty assessed on the tremendously high values of a year or two ago. Under the present setup there is no prospect of establishing values on many of the properties. There have been no sales and when sales cannot be quoted, it is pretty hard to convince a valuer in these cases that values have dropped tremendously. There have simply been no sales so there is no effective way of establishing the value. 
Debate interrupted. 
Last night before the Senate adjourned I was talking about land values generally and the effect of the depression in wool prices and droughts. I had said that there was no prospect of establishing any standard of values. I had mentioned that it was very difficult to get some of the State and Federal Authorities to accept the fact that there were lower values. I quoted some cases of death duties being charged on the previous high values. I would like to mention another possibility which could arise in the operation of this rural reconstruction scheme. If a man on a property being successfully reconstructed was killed in a car accident or in some other way we could have the possibility of rural reconstruction money being taxed by the death duty people. I think this is something which should be looked at in view of what has happened in the past in this regard. 
I would like to touch on local authority problems, particularly in those areas that are suffering because of low wool prices and the effects of a long drought. There is now no chance of the local government authorities being able to collect a large part of their rates from people in those areas. This ties in with rural reconstruction because the property owners who will be assisted have to pay shire rates. With no chance of a large part of their own rates being collected local authorities in those areas will collapse. This will occur because at present people simpy do not have the money to pay shire council rates and the shires will not be able to carry on unless they get some assistance from outside. This is due to a combination of the collapse of prices for wool and some other primary products and, in many cases, the failure of farmers because of the effects of drought. It has been pointed out that while I have dealt principally with wool in discussing rural reconstruction, all primary industries are eligible and can apply for assistance. I have here a circular sent out by the Queensland Rural Reconstruction Board. It states: 
Objectives: 
The general principle is to distribute available assistance as widely as possible. However, the over-riding objective is to help restore to a profitable basis those farms and farmers with the capacity to maintain progress once assistance has been given by the Board and other parties. 
Supervision: 
It is an essential part of the Scheme that close supervision of property management and the financial affairs of an assisted farmer is maintained. Every advance made will be related to a plan of operation and budget for the property within which the assisted farmer will be obliged to work. 
If the Board deems it necessary and it has the requisite supplementary security all monies receivable on account of the property will be received by the Board or its appointed agent which will disburse payments within the approval budget. 
As I said earlier I believe that this scheme must be started but I think we will soon find that it has to be broadened and that more money will have to be made available. We will have to look at this as soon as possible to see what is absolutely necessary to carry it on and get money to these people so that they can get their properties to the stage where they become as asset to the community. Despite the build-up of minerals and manufactures Australia still is dependent mainly on primary production exports for foreign exchange. We cannot get away from that fact and it has to be borne in mind all the time. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has moved an amendment to each of these Bills. The first seeks to set up an inquiry into all aspects of primary production. We have opposed this sort of thing before because we believe it would take too long. There are at least 40 different primary industries. If an inquiry is necessary for a particular industry we could possibly look at the position and we might be able to go along with that specific inquiry. We have had the spectacle of an economic inquiry on which a lot of time and money was spent in producing a report, but not much action has been taken on that report. 
The Democratic Labor Party's other amendment relates to the second Sill and is, I believe, a bit too general as it stands at the moment and I cannot go along with it. I think that wool will again come into favour on a world basis but it will take some time and, in the meantime, a major recovery operation must be mounted in the wool industry. We cannot let the wool industry collapse, especially as in many parts of Australia no diversification is possible. It would take too long to get it reestablished when things come right, and they can come right quicker than we realise. At one time there did not appear to be any future at all for sugar and then, within the comparatively short space of a couple of years, the position changed completely. We have seen this happen to other commodities, one being butter. 
That could possibly affect Australia but I think, at present as far as we can tell the sugar industry is on  a  pretty firm basis. Not many months ago we were told of mammoth stockpiles of butter in European countries, but that seems to have melted away, disappeared or been sold almost overnight and now Australia is being asked to increase its exports of butter. If this situation applies to other industries, it could apply also to wool and other produce. I have referred mainly to wool in the proposed scheme, but the scheme is designed to cover all primary industries. The thinking behind the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill represents a major change of attitude on the part of all 7 Australian governments towards our rural industries. We must remember that our rural industries provide a good market for many secondary industries and, conversely, that our large population provides a base market for many of our primary industries. It must not be forgotten that since the first European settlement in Australia our primary industries have made possible our great expansion and development as a nation by providing abundant quantities of cheap food for our people at prices usually well below world parity. The 
Government must do all that it can to see that our present prosperity as a nation is assured for all of our population. I support these Bills and commend them to the Senate. I hope that they will be passed as soon as possible so that we can get on with doing something for this section of the population which, through no fault of its own, is in such a desperate plight. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. With further reference to the application by the Queensland Government for a grant of $10m to provide for urgent assistance to maintain the people in the disaster areas of inland Queensland, until the implementation of a permanent arrangement for their future, can the Minister give the Senate any information as to the progress made in considering this application? Also, how soon is it anticipated that this urgent request of the Queensland Government will be answered? 
I would like to refer to the Minister's answer to me concerning the allowance of $2,200 a square for building the laboratories. This bears out the point I was trying to make that in the metropolitan area where building costs are of a certain standard we will get quite a good laboratory but if we apply this $2,200 a square in the areas outside the metropolitan areas we will get a smaller laboratory or an inferior laboratory. That is my objection to the standard cost per square. There should be some allowance made for a higher cost of construction outside the metropolitan area. 
I shall take up only a few minutes of the Senate's time to deal with a couple of aspects of this Bill. It is a pity that someone who just said 'That is good' did not do the same. I support the Bill and reject the amendment. I thought it rather strange for  Senator Wheeldon  to mention well to do children, particularly when referring to a farming area. This Bill seeks authority for grants over the next 4 financial years to conclude the scheme to provide grants for the construction and equipping of science laboratories in secondary schools. In the period that this scheme has been in operation it has made wonderful achievements. All around the countryside schools have established, with Commonwealth help, science blocks that otherwise they would not have. A total amount of about $43m is to be spent on science laboratories in the next 4 years, or just over $10m a year. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who in the Senate represents the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Fairbairn),  said in his second reading speech that the present rate of expenditure is to be slightly reduced. He went on to say that the Government believes that the rate of expenditure is appropriate to the economic circumstances of the time, and appropriate to the remaining needs of secondary schools. Later in his speech he said: 
For the remaining 4 years the method of distribution will take closer account of the actual needs of particular schools. 
I understand that the present cost of construction of a science laboratory in the metropolitan area is about $32,000. That sum will provide a quite attractive and useful laboratory designed to meet a secondary school's requirements, which is the Government's aim. The word has gone around that by. Government orders the cost is to be reduced to $29,000 for each laboratory built in a metropolitan area. If building costs are to be reduced by $3,000, it will be necessary to use cheaper materials or to cheesepare in some directions. The position will be infinitely worse in areas outside the metropolitan areas, because building costs are higher. If I am. correctly informed that the present programme includes reduction of building costs to $29,000 for each laboratory, country areas will be at a big disadvantage when compared with the metropolitan areas. Building costs are higher in country areas, and I would like an assurance from the Minister that what I have been told is not correct, that the programme will continue as it has in the past and that the committees will allocate the funds to schools and try to tailor them to meet their requirements. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the world monetary crisis seems a long way from any form of solution, with dealings in most nations' currencies still not being permitted, and as this can have serious effects on Australia's external trade, especially if any nation decides to devalue its currency, can the Senate be assured that any possible repercussions likely to affect the value of the Australian dollar will be guarded against and that a full statement on Australia's position will be made to this Parliament without delay? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior been drawn to a decision of members of the Northern Territory Legislative Council by a decisive majority to refuse to accept daylight saving for the Territory? Apparently they believe that it is not suited to the tropical low latitudes. Can the Senate have an assurance that this decision will not be interfered with from Canberra? 
I would like first to mention the principles under which the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances works and has worked for many years. The one that is of particular relevance to the Evidence Ordinance is that the functions of the Committee are to scrutinise regulations and ordinances to ascertain that they are concerned with administrative detail and do not amount to substantive legislation which should be a matter for parliamentary enactment. The proposal to disallow this ordinance is based on this self imposed principle that the Committee has adopted. In reporting on the Evidence Ordinance the Committee stated in its report: 
This Ordinance enacts a comprehensive code of the law of evidence, and replaces various New South Wales statutes and other laws previously in force in the Australian Capital Territory. 
As I understand the position, when the Australian Capital Territory was established the laws as they stood in New South Wales at that time were applied to the Territory. If they were subsequently amended in New South Wales that alteration did not apply to the Australian Capital Territory. Consequently the ACT has many laws and regulations dating from, I think, 1911. Many of them are still in the same form that they were in at that time and have not been amended. This Parliament is the only legislative body that the people of the Australian Capital Territory have. In effect this Parliament is the government for what might be called a separate State with a population of approximately 100,000 people. I do not believe^ that the national Parliament can be expected to burden itself with all regulations and ordinances which affect the Territory. If the Parliament were to do that an undue proportion of our time would be occupied in considering and discussing these matters. The question is: Where do we draw the line? Which ordinances should be brought into effect by regulation and which by substantive legislation? I understand that the Seat of Government (Administration) Act gives a very wide blanket cover which enables the Government to make regulations for the ACT. 
In dealing with this Ordinance the Committee has said in its report that it is not concerned with the merits or demerits of the provisions of the Ordinance. It is my impression that most members of the Committee think it is a very good ordinance which has had much work put into it and which covers a very comprehensive range of subjects. There is no question that under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act the Government has power to make an ordinance. Some of the changes provided by this Ordinance will have a widespread effect. There has been an endeavour in this legislation to update many of the provisions of the law of evidence to enable the use of modern methods such as computers which were probably not in existence when the laws of evidence now applying in the Australian Capital Territory were brought into effect. The Ordinance makes provision for, among other things, the admissibility in evidence of copies made on microfilm. It provides also, as I have said, for the admissibility of documents produced by computers. The Ordinance contains pages of new provisions relating to the admissibility of evidence. The matters referred to are very comprehensive; quite a few of them have been mentioned already. 
I come now to what may be described as the grey area - whether these matters should be dealt with by substantive legislation or by this Ordinance. We have been told that today is the last possible day on which the Senate may act in respect of this Ordinance, that if the Senate does not take action today the Ordinance will be automatically disallowed. I have been told that that is the law on the subject and that that is the reason for the debate being brought on today. I have given this matter careful consideration. I have listened to the AttorneyGeneral  (Senator Greenwood)  who has said that he is willing to look at the whole position in the near future and - I think these were his words - that he would try to draft a consolidated Act to cover the criminal code, the laws of evidence that go with it, court procedure and everything else. 1 think it would be far better to allow the Ordinance to stand and to debate the Bill for a consolidated Act when it comes before the Parliament. That is the position that I take on this issue. 
1 should like to say a few words on the proposed amendment. Although it will be said that standing order 64 has contained these words for some time, I believe that the amendment which is proposed should be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee so that a few points may be cleared up. The standing order states: 
The  Senator so  moving must make in writing, and hand in to the  President  before the time fixed for the meeting ... 
If 1 happened to meet the  President  in Melbourne, Brisbane or somewhere else on a Monday afternoon, I presume that under this standing order 1 would be quite in order in handing to him notice of an urgency motion. This matter is not made clear. It has always been assumed that notice had to be given here in Parliament House, Canberra. It is not clear whether notice could be given elsewhere, although those words have been in the standing order for quite a long time. I suggest too that if an honourable senator confers with some other honourable senators by telephone on a Monday or a Tuesday before &gt; we meet there should be no legal impediment to his sending an urgent telegram to the President's office whether it be in Melbourne, here or wherever it may be for the time being. In standing order 64 there is no mention of a telegram but it states that the motion must be made in writing. I suggest that that matter should be cleared up. There are a few things along those lines which should be looked at. I leave out the matter of the addition of the words '24 hours'. I do not think that that is a good thing. As has been pointed out, I think that notice of an urgency motion could be given tonight when we finish and everything could be in order for it to be dealt with next Tuesday. I see no objection to that. I think that 24 hours notice is a little short. There should be a limit of a week or something like that. At the present moment this amendment is not good. It is not clear. To take the legal interpretation, if the  President  were away on holidays it would be physically impossible to hand the notice of an urgency motion to him. But that is what the words in paragraph 9 mean. I think the amendment should provide that the notice may be handed to the  President,  or his  Deputy,  or that it be handed into his office or posted to his office. That point should be cleared up. I believe that this matter should be referred back to the Standing Orders Committee and brought up to date and that the wording should be tidied up. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Why has the long standing procedure for the charging of Commonwealth estate duty on the estates of deceased persons been altered? In the past the executors of estates usually had finalised their dealings with the State authorities before an assessment was made by the Commonwealth. This was partly because the Commonwealth authority allowed the sum paid to a State as a deduction before making its assessment. It is now the practice for the Commonwealth to make its assessment as soon as possible after the death of the person concerned, which makes it much more difficult for the executors to raise the funds to pay these duties and tends to increase the number of forced sales, which is to the detriment of the beneficiaries. Will the Minister take action to have the previous practice reverted to so that estates can be much more readily administered and with less hardship to a large number of people? 
As a result of this matter being raised with me at a different level by  Senator Lawrie,  I obtained some information on it. I have a very long explanation to give. I feel that it would be inappropriate to give it at this would prefer to put down the answer at the stage when the Senate is dealing with quesions on notice. It is in fact a long and technical answer. Although this is a very important matter, I do not think it would be in the interest of the Senate to give the answer at this particular time. I will give it later in the afternoon. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science been drawn to a report in this morning's Press to the effect that a number of university students have been stood down for various periods at the La Trobe University in Melbourne? Could the Minister inform the Senate whether any of those students are in receipt of Commonwealth scholarships? If so, will they automatically lose their scholarships as a result of the action taken by the La Trobe University? 
Before I say a few words about the Budget I would like to congratulate those new honourable senators who made their maiden speeches. I look forward to hearing other new senators speak for the first time tomorrow and next week. Referring to the Budget generally, I do not believe that there has been nearly as much criticism of this Budget as there usually is. Throughout Australia it seems to have had a reasonably good reception. We have to remember that the Budget is brought down against a background of a crisis in world finances and of the near certainty that Britain will join the European Economic Community. 
With regard to the crisis in world finances we have the Australian dollar tied to sterling and already our currency and sterling have appreciated in relation to the United States dollar but depreciated a little in relation to the Japanese yen. This means that ordinarily we would lose a little on United States trade but would benefit from trade with Japan. That does not necessarily follow, however, as Japan exports a lot of goods made from our raw materials. I am told that many of our coal and iron contracts with Japan are written in United States currency. 
This world monetary crisis has greatly affected our trade. We have only to look at the position of the wool industry and the wool sales to see how much it has created uncertainty in that area. The position of our trade with the United Kingdom also will alter considerably. For a long while it has been a case of speculation whether the United Kingdom might join or be allowed to join the European Economic Community but it seems now that it will be a fait accompli in the near future. It has been forcibly brought home to us that we must look for other markets and that the transition period is short - this is the period in which we can adjust our trade with the United Kingdom, the European Economic Community and other areas. The transition will have to be finalised by 1974. It is hard for us as a nation to realise that we have had duty free and unrestricted entry for all our products to the United Kingdom since we began exporting. Now we must take our place in the queue and be subject to quantitative restrictions and high duties along with a lot of other nations. 
For about 150 years we have provided the United Kingdom with large quantities of cheap food of good quality - to our mutual benefit, I might mention - and at the same time we have enjoyed from the United Kingdom protection during our development period. We have enjoyed the protection of United Kingdom sea and land power in the period of her greatest glory. But that has changed and is now gone. We must look to our future trade relations and if possible use our position to bargain with other countries. We should endeavour more than we have done so far to build up markets in the Pacific and Asian areas. This leads me to another point: What of our future relations with the United Kingdom? The continuance of 
British preferential tariffs after 1974 has to be considered. We will be almost completely shut out of the British markets by that date as a result of the duties, quantitative restrictions and high tariffs that will be imposed. Therefore we will have to give consideration to the continuance of our trade with the United Kingdom. 1 turn now to the subject of our own domestic affairs. Unfortunately we have a 2-levei economy in Australia today. We have unprecedented prosperity over a large area with over-full employment and high wages but a large part of our rural area is in a very depressed state. Mention is made in the Budget of the fact that farm income is down $265m on last year's figure. The Budget seeks to rectify this position by, among other things, making deficiency payments to the wool industry, lt may be that more will have to be done. We cannot continue to exist as a community if the prosperous section of our community is not prepared to share some of its prosperity with the less fortunate section. For years Australia lived on the sheep's back, but today many wool growers are in a desperate position. Whole areas, including country towns, are in a depressed state and people are leaving them. The Government has agreed to a deficiency payment on woo! to bring the average price of it to 36c a lb. However, even with this help the position is far from good. If there is no substantial rise in wool prices in the near future I believe that further action will have to be taken. 
The Budget provides for the greatest increase ever in social services, especially in the age pension. There has been surprisingly little criticism of the Government's social service proposals, including its child endowment proposal. The education allowance deduction from income tax for children has been increased from $300 to $400. The previous  speaker, Senator Cavanagh,  referred to this matter at some length. He tried to show that this increase would help only the people in receipt of large incomes. I do not think that his argument will hold water. The age in respect of which a deduction can be claimed for student children has been extended to 25 years. That is a big concession for the many people who have to keep students who are over 21 years of age at universities. The direct expenditure by the Commonwealth on education this year will be S346m. I point out that the total direct expenditure on education by the Commonwealth has increased in 10 years from S55m to $346m. 1 think that this is a great achievement. It gives the lie to some of the criticism expressed by  Senator Cavanagh  about the education system. In the same 10 years the total State expenditure on education has increased from $40 lm to $ 1,043m, which is a very substantial increase. 1 was sorry to hear the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who represents in this chamber the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  say in answer to a question I asked of him the other day that university students holding Commonwealth scholarships are not automatically deprived of their scholarships when they are expelled from a university. I think this matter should be looked at further. A person who is not fit to stay at a university should not be regarded as fit to continue to receive a Commonwealth scholarship. 
The Budget provides for assistance to the extent of $8m a year to local government authorities as a result of the Commonwealth agreeing to meet the cost of exempting from paying payroll tax the non-business activities of such authorities. This provision will take effect from the time of the transfer of the imposition of a payroll tax to the States, which I understand will be 1st September 1971. This will be of great assistance to the local government authorities. The situation exists where the third tier of government is in financial trouble in nearly every State. In some areas of western Queensland which are experiencing problems with wool the local government authorities will not be able to collect much money in the way of rates. Therefore they will have great difficulty in continuing to provide the services that they do provide. The State government, which guarantees their loans, obviously will have to help them out in relation to the interest payments. I believe that we will soon have to make some provision for financing the third tier of government. It is no use saying that it is a State government responsibility and that the State governments are provided with the money to do this. The position is that as Australians wc are all in the one government business together. The local government authorities are closest to the people. 1 believe that they should receive greater consideration from the Commonwealth Government than they do. However the assistance is to be provided, I believe it it has to be borne in mind that assistance has to be provided to the local government authorities by the Commonwealth Government. 
I would also like to mention that expenditure from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account on housing, health and, in particular, education in Queensland is to be increased by 28 per cent. There are 1,250 Aboriginal children over 14 years of age in Queensland who are receiving education assistance. This is only the second year in which this assistance has been provided in Queensland. This figure represents an increase of 700 from the situation in the first year. A payment of $200 is made to parents who keep their children at home. An amount of $150 is also provided for uniforms and $50 for books. If the child goes to a boarding school the boarding fees are paid as well as the cost of the tuition. This has been a big help to Aboriginal children in many parts of Queensland. 
I turn now to the position in the far northern part of Queensland - the Cape York Peninsula area. I have always advocated that there should be a good road right to the top of Australia. Some money has been provided under the beef roads scheme for a part of this road, but it has not been nearly enough. There are lots of cattle stations in that area and some notable development has taken place. 
 No, I would not worry too much about the Daintree area. I would start at Mareeba and go up through Cooktown. It would have the effect of serving the Weipa-Bamaga area. The possible provision in the future of a car ferry to Thursday Island would enable the people in this area to have road transport to the rest of their fellow Australians. I would point out that there are 10,000 Australians in the area from Weipa north who do not have any road transport, who have very little shipping and who have a very expensive air service to Cairns. When these people get to Cairns on their holidays they have still 1,000 miles to travel if they want to go to Brisbane and 2,000 miles to travel if they want to go to Melbourne. A road in this area would be a tremendous help to them. It would also greatly increase the tourist traffic and develop a new province in that part of Queensland. 
I would like again to mention just briefly the question of the boundary between Queensland and the Territory of Papua New Guinea. At the beginning of this year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  urged a reduction in the Queensland border. The Premier of Queensland replied to this suggestion by saying (hat, although he did not believe that  Mr Whitlam  had ever been to the islands concerned in the Torres Strait, he was advocating that we should give away half of our  Torres  Strait islands to a future independent territory of Papua New Guinea. The people of these islands are all good Queenslanders and Australians. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the Torres Strait Islands and the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition in another place that some of them should be ceded to a possible future independent Papua New Guinea. During his visit to the Territory in the early part of this year  Mr Whitlam  was reported as having said that the Queensland boundary was less than 3 miles from the Papuan coast. This report states:  "The boundary should be put half way between Papua and Queensland,' he said. 
I do not think he understands the position and I do not think he has ever been to the islands in Torres Strait. He would not have said this if he had met the good Queenslanders, good Australians, who live there. I want to quote the remarks made by  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  the Premier of Queensland, on 15th January, shortly after  Mr Whitlam's  visit. This report referring to the Premier states: 
He strongly criticised the Federal Opposition Leader for his statements during his Papua New Guinea visit that the proximity of Queensland's border to the Territory was likely to cause future quarrels between future governments.  Mr Whitlam  suggested while in New Guinea that the boundary should be put half way between the Territory and Queensland. 
The Premier, speaking al a Dalby  function  on the first day of an inland tour, said that the ALP was fond of complaining about giving away our heritage when they talked about coal negotiations. The Queensland islands also were part of that heritage. He said the Queensland Government would resist as strongly as it could any move to bring its northern maritime border closer to the Queensland mainland. 
The Government and the island people involved in any such change are concerned with  this  Labor Party suggestion,' he said. 'I can't understand the motive behind this ALP move. . . . Torres Strait islanders strongly resist the suggestion.' 
The people living on these islands are good Queenslanders and good Australians and do not want in any circumstances to be pari of a possible independent Papua New Guinea. They run their islands extremely well. They have councils along the same lines as our shire councils and the islands are Aboriginal reserves by statute. These people look after the islands and are proud of them. We should do everything possible to resist any change in the Queensland boundary, which is the Australian boundary, lt has existed for many years; in fact it has remained unchanged since Queensland became a State. 
 He has never discussed it with them, and 1 do not think he understood the position. I do not think he would know where some of these islands are, to tell the truth. That is the position. I ask this Parliament and all good Australians to do everything they can to resist any change in the Queensland boundary and to resist any suggestion to give to another government the islands on which these people live. 1 want to refer now to our airlines and our 2 airline policy. I believe there is a growing tendency for the 2 major airlines to get out of some of the feeder services, especially in inland Queensland. I have always understood that the airlines were given protection in the high density routes, the inter-capital routes and routes linking Launceston, Alice Springs, Darwin, Mt Isa, the Queensland coast and Moresby, so that they would be able to service other routes on which there is no profit and perhaps even a loss but which actually are feeder lines. There is a growing tendency for the airlines to get out of these services. Other companies take over for a while. Sometimes they continue and sometimes they do not. Owing to the uncertainty and infrequency of some services the smaller airlines lose business. Consequently many inland towns in Queensland are losing their air services and do not look like getting them back. Some local councils have spent a lol of money to bring their aerodromes up to standard. This situation should be investigated and action should be taken to see that the 2 major airlines at least continue the services they have contracted to provide. 
I want to refer briefly now to the PostmasterGeneral's Department. One of the proposed increases in charges will fall particularly hard on country people. I refer to the proposed increase in trunk line telephone rates. People in rural areas and country towns have to make a great number of trunk line calls and the increase will fall more severely on them than on people in the big cities. It is interesting to note that in the last full year for which PMG accounts are available, that is the year ended June 1970, the mail section lost $21m and the telephone section made a profit of about $21 m and thus balanced the loss. The loss in the mail section was brought about partly because of the high labour content. Wage increases result in increased costs. On the other hand the telephone section is highly mechanised and works efficiently once the automatic systems are installed. It is interesting to note that Postal Department reports on the introduction of subscriber trunk dialing state that if all the STD calls made in the year ended June 1970 had had to be handled manually it would have cost the Department another $20m in telephonists' wages and other labour costs associated with manual connection. This report reveals what a good business venture the automatic system is and why it should be expanded. 
I know full well that about 92 per cent or 93 per cent of Australian telephone users now have automatic systems. It is the remaining 7 per cent or 8 per cent that matter. They live mainly in country areas and many of them have restricted hours of service. We have to provide for these people. The policy decision announced last year to build the first 15 miles of line for every rural subscriber free of charge and to maintain it in perpetuity has been a great success. I ask that a greater amount of money be voted for this system. The programme is only now getting under way, and the $5m allocated in the current Budget will not be nearly enough. At this rate it will take far too long to build these lines, or to rebuild them in many cases. The expenditure of more money is warranted to provide telephone systems for rural people and to provide a continuous automatic system for those who have restricted hours of use. For many years I have had only a restricted telephone service. It is very hard for a person with a continuous service to understand the problems associated with a silent telephone on Saturday afternoons, on Sundays and at night. Accidents and sickness seem to come upon us most when telephone services are not available. I think we should do all we can to provide a continuous service and an automatic system for the small part of the Australian population which does not now have them. 
This Budget provides for an increase of $117m in the defence vote or an increase of 10 per cent. This is a very good thing because it will continue to keep our defences strong. The Budget also seeks to continue a stable economy in this country. Because of this position overseas investors are prepared to invest their money and help in our development. Over the last 20 years we have won the confidence of many overseas investors. They regard Australia as a country with a stable government and a safe place in which to invest their money. The Budget seeks to preserve this situation and to preserve our economy and way of life so that we, as a nation, can continue to prosper as we have prospered over the last 21 years. I support the Budget and oppose the amendment. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and
              Science. I refer to the Minister's statement, when the Senate was debating the
              States Grants (Science Laboratories) Bill on 19th May last, that a decision had been
              taken to adopt an expenditure of $2,200 per square on the construction of science
              laboratories. As this standard will, no doubt, be applied to laboratories in
              metropolitan areas where building costs are lowest, can the Minister inform the Senate
              what extra expenditure over the amount of $2,200 per square is to be allowed in areas
              outside metropolitan areas and in the more remote areas to compensate for the extra
              building costs, so that the same standards of construction will apply to science
              laboratories built anywhere in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. 
In view of the fact that Brisbane Airport terminal buildings are to be
            built on a completely new site, is it proposed to repair the Trans-Australia Airlines
            building damaged by fire on Sunday or to rebuild it on its present site? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether any consideration has been given by the 2 major domestic airlines to the introduction of a 2-tier system of air fares to help reduce the high cost of air travel. By this 1 mean the present fares for those who wish to travel at their convenience and fares at a substantially less rate for those who are prepared to travel at the airlines' convenience. I mention that a lower rate applies in many places overseas at less popular travel times and when there are empty seats. If this matter has not been considered already will the Minister take it up with the airlines concerned? 
J direct my question to the Minister representing the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. 1 ask whether the Great Barrier Reef visitor plan - 1 have a copy of it here - as commissioned by the Australian Tourist Commission could be made available to interested parties for less than what 1 understand is the selling price, namely. S25 a copy. Could interested honourable senators receive a free copy of this publication? 
On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the 131st and 132nd reports of the Public Accounts Committee. With the concurrence of honourable senators 1 incorporate in Hansard a statement on the reports. 
The 131st report relates to the Treasury minute on your committee's 112th report, which concerns Commonwealth advertising. The 132nd report refers to the Treasury minute on the 115th report concerning expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer 1968-69. 
Honourable senators will be aware that on several occasions the former  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie),  referred to the Treasury minutes arrangement as an important element in ensuring that, through your Committee, the Parliament maintains a significant role in the financial administration on the Commonwealth. I endorse that view completely. While, under that arrangement, it is open to your Committee to make such comment as may be necessary on any Treasury minute arising from its reports, your Committee has not found it necessary to make any comment on the Treasury minute relating to the 112th report. It has found it necessary, however, to comment on the Treasury minute relating to the 115th report. This comment takes the form of an observation set out in Chapter 3 of the 132nd report. 
As honourable senators will be aware, your Committee has been concerned on many occasions over the years with the quality of the evidence tendered by the witnesses. In this regard the Treasury minute on the 115th report suggests that factually inaccurate evidence may have been submitted by the Department of the Interior in connection with item 363/2/02 relating to stationery and printing for the Australian Capital Territory Police. In view of the comments made in the Treasury minute, your Committee re-examined the relevant evidence and also sought advice from the Department of the Interior regarding the accuracy of the evidence that it had tendered during the inquiry in relation to matters of fact. On the basis of this re-examination and the advice obtained, your Committee believes that the evidence tendered concerning an order that had been placed for a law manual and a Police law reference book lacked clarity. Your Committee also believes, however, that evidence given in relation to an amount of$500 for the Police law reference book, was correct on the basis of information available to the department at the time when the evidence was tendered to the Committee. 
I commend the reports to honourable senators. 
Ordered to be printed. 

 - Senator Willesee, who has just resumed his seat, moved an amendment to the Post and Telegraph Bill, which is the main Bill being debated. Included in that amendment were the words: 
. the increased charges are against the national interest. 
In the course of his speech he mentioned the large staff in the Postmaster-General's Department. He forgot to remind the Senate that increased wages must have a very large and cumulative effect on a department with such a large staff. The Department has, as he told us, one of the biggest staffs in Australia. Does he want the general taxpayer to subsidise the Post Office? In effect this is what he suggested. He mentioned that there should be decentralisation in a big way. He did not explain how it was to be carried out, what would be the cost, and so on. As I understood him, he mentioned the big buildings in capital cities which are being used for only one shift in 24 hours. I understood him to say that they could be used for an afternoon shift or even for 3 shifts. If thai proposal were implemented, would not penalty rates for night work be incurred? What would be saved by using the building for 2 or 3 shifts would be more than cancelled out by increased costs and by penalty rates. 
The basic postal charge is proposed to be increased by lc. Postal services have come a long way since  Sir Rowland  Hill introduced penny postage in 1840. This innovation meant that the volume of letters quadrupled in 10 years and increased tenfold in 30 years. In the United Kingdom the penny rate remained the same for 75 years. Today the Government is proposing that the basic postage rate shall be 7c. This rate is still about the world average. It is below the rates applicable in some countries. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has pointed out that, in Australian currency, postage in the United Kingdom costs 6.4c, in Germany 7.3c, in Canada 5.8c, in the United States of America 7.1c, in Sweden 9.5c and in France 6.4c. The mail section of the Post Office is a very high labour content service. Most of the increases in wages in the last 12 months have had to be absorbed in that section. In 1970-71 postal operations lost S25m. In 1971-72, even with the increase in the postage rate of lc, that section is still expected to lose $17m. On the other hand, in 1970-71 the telecommunications section made a profit of $23m. This year, with the increased charges, it is expected to make a profit of $53m. in effect every telephone user is subsidising the mails in a substantial way. 
The present automatic telephone system is a good investment for the Post Office. I have been informed by the PostmasterGeneral's Department that subscriber trunk dialling alone has saved the Department a tremendous amount. In the last 12 months if every long distance call had been made through manual switchboards it would have cost the Department an extra $20m. That is the estimate. The capital investment that STD required has meant a very substantial saving due to mechanisation. About 91 per cent of our telephones are now automatic. It is the other 9 per cent which concern me considerably because they are in small country towns and rural or pastoral areas. A large number of places still have manual exchanges and some exchanges operate restricted hours only. I believe people in the areas covered by those exchanges should be given a continuous service as soon as possible. Two things delay the introduction of that service - limited funds and a shortage of technical staff. These prevent the introduction of that service as quickly as possible. 
I refer now to the new rural telephonic policy announced last year. This is a big step towards providing a good telephone service to the rural areas. 
My question  is  directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. Is the experiment in daylight saving, which is due to commence in the eastern States at the end of October, to apply to the ACT? If the answer is yes, how is it proposed to be implemented - by Act of Parliament or by ordinance? 
 Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the fact that the longshoremen's strike in the United States of America has now spread to the east coast? Can he inform the Senate of any likely effect on Australian exports to the United States, especially meat which has to be got in almost immediately to fill this year's quota? 
As it seems likely that parallel runways will be necessary at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport in the future, can the Minister for Civil Aviation say whether the extension now being built into Botany Bay is wide enough for 2 runways? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry been drawn to an article in today's 'Australian' which states that Japan is likely to require less Australian iron ore and coking coal than it bought last year? Is this likely to affect adversely Australia's overseas income this year? Will the Government consider mounting a publicity campaign to point out to the Australian public generally, and to those directly interested in particular, the necessity to contain costs and to avoid industrial trouble, such as the strikes now occurring in the export coke and coal industry if Australia is to retain the Japanese market and keep up its export income? 
I desire to make a small contribution to this debate. As honourable senators know the National Health Bill is in several distinct parts. One part concerns the increase of benefits paid to nursing home patients; another part increases the patient's contribution for the prescription of a pharmaceutical benefit; another part refers to the friendly societies dispensaries and their members; another part refers to the substantial health benefits plan and a further part to amendments to medical services and the Commonwealth benefits which are payable. A series of provisions which originally were regulations have been incorporated in the Bill. 
Firstly, I shall deal with nursing homes. It is proposed to increase the benefit for patients receiving ordinary nursing home care by $1.50 a day to $3.50 a day. The amount will be raised to $6.50 a day for patients who are receiving intensive care. These benefits are paid on behalf of the nursing home patients. They are not a subsidy in any sense at all to the owners of the nursing home whoever they may be, although they do receive the money. There has been criticism of conditions in some private nursing homes. But such homes are only a small minority. The deficiencies found in the few homes mentioned do not apply generally. There is a federal check - admittedly irregular - of conditions including food supplies. The statement that increased benefits will assist only the proprietors of nursing homes is entirely wrong. It is in the interests of patients that both public and private nursing homes remain solvent. The criticism made by the previous  speaker, Senator Mulvihill,  about the subsidy being too little and too late is not quite correct. I think the amount provided represents quite a considerable lift in the subsidy. It will be of tremendous help in keeping these homes solvent. The Federal view is that such homes are too few in number and that patients cannot always gain admission. 
I shall refer briefly to the pharmaceutical benefits and the patients contribution which is to be increased from 50c to $1- Since the introduction of the 50c charge - a little over 10 years ago - benefits have increased and continue to expand. It is interesting to look at a few figures in relation to this matter. The average number of prescriptions per head has increased from 2.13 in 1960-71 to 4.25 in 1970-71. A large number of people would go for a year or more without receiving any prescriptions at all so those figures mean that a lot of other people must receive considerably more than the average of 4.25 prescriptions each. The cost for each prescription has increased from $4.62 in 1960-61 to $9.80 for 1970-71. That is almost $10 a head. When one thinks of this amount in relation to a population of over 12 million people that is a very large sum of money. I point out that the cost of many medicines is probably not very great. I think that the Annual Report of the DirectorGeneral of Health shows that the average cost of medicine in a lot of prescriptions is a little over $2. But in some cases the cost of medicine is very great. I shall cite the case of a man whom I know. He had to have a certain drug. He was prescribed this drug for his particular ailment and it cost him $100 a month. He had to have it every month. The extraordinary thing about this case was that this drug was designated as a pharmaceutical benefits item for another ailment but not for the ailment that this man had. So he paid the full cost of this drug out of his own pocket for a while. Then, as a result of representations, the Minister for Health and the Department of Health agreed that the designation of the drug should be broadened to cover the illness from which this man suffered. This was a tremendous help to this man as he was not required to pay $100 a month for the drug. 
What I am trying to point out is that because of his illness this man could not receive this drug under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. But if his illness had been diagnosed as another ailment the same drug could have been available under that scheme. I mention this case to show also how great the cost of some medicines is if they must be paid for in full  -  I doubt that the number that cost this much is great - and to show what a wonderful help this scheme is to people in this category. 
Another matter upon which I wish to touch briefly is that of friendly society dispensaries and the members of those societies. I have had representations from the friendly societies on this matter. I am pleased to see that in this Bill, generally speaking, the rights of these dispensaries and the friendly society members have been preserved. There are a few little catches about which they are not happy. Friendly society dispensaries are divided into 3 groups. Between 1960, when the 50c prescription charge was introduced, and 1964, friendly society members could obtain medicines at less than that rate of charge because of their contributions to their own organisations. The relevant provision of the Act was altered in 1964 and remained unaltered until 1970. Members who joined during that period are on a par with the rest of the Australian community so far as paying a prescription charge to friendly society dispensaries is concerned. 
Friendly society dispensaries, some of which have been established recently, which dispense medicine or prescriptions to non-members are not able to extend the benefits of the pharmaceutical scheme to those non-members. Let us take the example of 2 dispensaries in one suburb. One is an ordinary 'guild' dispensary while the other is what is called a limited friendly society dispensary. Even if the prescription came within the pharmaceutical benefits scheme, a patient who was not a member of a friendly society would be required to pay the full cost of that prescription if it was dispensed by the so-called limited friendly society dispensary. I am informed that there are only 15 of these limited friendly society dispensaries in Australia. Most of them serve only their own members who are entitled to receive the pharmaceutical benefit with respect to eligible prescriptions. They cannot serve any member of the public under this scheme but must charge non-members the full retail cost of the prescription. To make it clear I point out that 144 ordinary friendly society dispensaries operate in Australia. They can deal with non-friendly society members in the same way as guild chemists do and provide to them the Commonwealth pharmaceutical benefit. As a matter of comparison I mention that I am told that there are approximately 5,750 guild chemist shops in Australia. That number is additional to several hundred dispensaries in the larger hospitals. 
This Bill provides for certain classes of people to receive increased benefits. This is the subsidised health benefits plan. Those eligible to receive benefits under the scheme are persons in receipt of unemployment, sickness and special benefits under Part VII of the Social Services Act; immigrants during the first 2 months after entry to Australia, and such immigrants must be the holders of entry permits not being temporary entry permits in force under the Migration Act; and low income families as defined in section 82u of the National Health Act. These people can obtain prescriptions at a lower cost under this scheme. I think that this is a big help to them. I understand that many of them will receive prescriptions at the existing 50c charge and that some will not be required to pay for prescriptions at all. 
In addition, this Bill contains amendments to the medical benefits scheme. There are approximately 30 medical services in respect of which the Commonwealth benefits payable have been amended. Several of the variations of this type which were made by regulation will now be incorporated in the Principal Act. A condition of a provision of the Principal Act passed some time ago was that this must be done within 12 months. I oppose the amendment. I do not think that if it was carried it would achieve anything. It should be thrown out. I support the Bill. 
Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to reports that preliminary census figures show that Australia has the greatest percentage - 88.5 per cent - of urban population of any nation and that this percentage represents a big increase in recent years? Will the Minister take up the matter with the Prime Minister to see whether any kind of inquiry into this undesirable trend can be instituted and also what measures can be taken to achieve a greater degree of decentralisation? 
Yes, I was prompted to look at the figures circulated. Therefore my attention has been drawn to the Press report about decentralisation. I should mention that the Commonwealth and State Officials Committee on Decentralisation has co-ordinated a range of studies on this subject in recent years. I understand that the Committee is at the stage of finalising its report and that it is to meet again next month. The report will draw upon the studies to which I have referred and, when it is completed, will receive consideration by the Commonwealth and State Governments. However, I should point out also that the Commonwealth has done more in the interests of decentralisation than is generally appreciated. For example, a wide range of measures introduced over recent years, including those announced in the last Budget, have been designed to assist primary industries. I have in mind the rural reconstruction scheme and the wool deficiency payments scheme. Other examples are mining and mineral exploration incentives and the petroleum prices equalisation scheme. In addition, particular localities have benefited by, for example, the establishment of military facilities and Commonwealth assistance for universities and other educational institutions. 
-I address my ques tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the fact that Australia's exports of meat to the United States of America have fallen short of the quota allowed for this year, is the Australian quota likely to be reduced in 1972? 
 I support this Trade Practices Bill and I hope it will not be too long before a permanent Bill is introduced as a result of the experience gained with the operation of this legislation. This Bill re-enacts parts of various Acts which are to be repealed by it. In fact the Bill repeals all existing trade practices legislation. This is set out in the early parts of the Bill. As a result of the concrete pipes case the judges of the High Court now say that the decision given in 1909 in respect of Commonwealth powers over trade and industry was wrong in several points. That decision being reversed, it is now believed that the Commonwealth has a far greater control over some of our trade practices than was envisaged in the period from 1909 to the time of the concrete pipes case. 
This Bill is a holding measure purely, as was pointed out by several earlier speakers. It has a limited basis and I understand that it covers no new ground, lt rests mainly on the finance and corporation power given to the Commonwealth in the Constitution. It is interesting to note that when the Trade Practices Act was in force, until it was declared invalid quite a few different facets of trade were examined. I want to mention 2 or 3 of the more important cases which received publicity. I mention first the frozen vegetables ease on which the Trade Practices Tribunal made a decision. Four or five other cases that were dealt with by the Tribunal are not now subject to any agreement as a result of the Act being declared invalid. These cases dealt with pharmaceutical medicines, hardboard containers, electric lamps, electric cables and ceramic wall tiles. Although only some of these agreements received publicity  I  am informed that about 13,000 agreements were registered during the existence of the Act. That is quite a substantial number and the agreements must cover a wide range and variety of subjects. These agreements must have had some effect on our trade practices and our trading generally during the time they were in force. I am informed also that the power over shipping and the power over retail price maintenance are not in question as a result of the High Court decision. 
However, I would like to draw attention to a couple of other points to which quite a few firms in Australia have what is known as a built in freight arrangement by means of which they sell their goods at a standard price throughout Australia. I believe that firms that are prepared to do this should receive better or easier treatment from the Trade Practices Tribunal than those which charge freight. Maintenance of standard prices throughout Australia is one of the greatest factors aiding decentralisation, lt is the greatest help to people outside metropolitan areas that could be envisaged. Although this principle is not written into this Bill I suggest that those firms charging standard prices throughout Australia should have a certain measure of priority in regard to treatment under this legislation. 
I want to mention one other facet of the retail price maintenance provisions. I hope those provisions will not be used to enable big firms progressively to eliminate small businesses in small towns. The provisions of the Bill are good but they could be used by a big firm to the detriment of a small businessman. A large firm could go into a particular town and cut prices until it broke the small storekeepers or small businessmen. 
I note that the Opposition is not opposing the Bill. It is a holding measure and it should be passed quickly by the Senate. I draw the attention of the Senate (o one other factor that sometimes is forgotten when reference is made to big companies and combines. If we look at many of these big, wealthy companies - the big, bacl wolves in some of these cases - we find that many have a large number of small shareholders who have invested their life savings in order to make provision for their old age and thereby not be a burden on the State. They are just as entitled to a dividend on their investment as are other investors. 1 think this factor should be continually borne in mind. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: What financial obligations in the way of dues etc. did the People's Republic of China incur when it recently accepted a seat in the United Nations? Has any of this money been paid? 
Will the Minister for 
Civil Aviation investigate the Queensland coastal air service by the major airlines? The present timetable, whilst excellent for travel between Brisbane and north. Queensland ports and vice versa, severely limits travel between the Rockhampton-Mackay area and the Townsville-Cairns area. Will the Minister see whether any improvement can be made for travellers between these intermediate ports? 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts a question. What progress has been made in considering the reports of the Senate select committees on air pollution and water pollution? Are any of the recommendations in those reports likely to be implemented in the near future? 
We really had the run-around from the last  speaker, Senator Mulvibill. 
We had the hoparound, we might say. I do not thinkI will be at the meeting on kangaroos on Saturday morning. 1 wish to refer to the actual words of the matter of urgency raised by  Senator Murphy.  He mentions 'a national organisation to prepare for and deal with' certain things. I wish to consider this matter on the basis of those 2 separate points - 'prepare for' and 'deal wilh'. 
The matter of urgency calls for centralisation of control or a national organisation. Australia is a big place. Some sort of national organisation which  Senator Murphy  claims suits other countries may not suit our land. We have found out by actual experience that most of the problems that we have with floods, fires, droughts and all the other natural disasters are handled much better on a local basis. In other words, we leave them to the local people. This Ls part of the 3-tier system of government - the local authorities, the State governments and the Commonwealth Government. Centralised control tends to establish a centra] organisation. People can say what they like, but it tends to build up; it tends te grow; and usually it tends to refuse to depute authority or power. The effect this has is that if somebody is in a remote part of Australia he has to ring headquarters in Canberra and say: 'There is a big fire out in this area. Have we permission to attack it? Although people say that that cannot happen, that is the ultimate of what can happen with centralised control. In regard to the first part of  Senator Murphy's  matter of urgency - 'prepare for' - he mentions fires first. Fires are usually local and short-lived, but they can cause considerable loss of life and property. How can people actually prepare for them, except by constructing more fire breaks, or giving more encouragement to the construction of fire breaks and the removal of fire hazards? We have just heard  Senator Withers  explain that in Western Australia some of the local people around a national park wanted to protect it from fire by burning fire breaks. What happened? They were prevented from doing that, and the fire hazard built up to a much greater extent and there was a disaster. 
Floods usually are not on a State-wide basis but in some of the major rivers and streams. They are usually short-lived, except in a long river system. They are difficult to anticipate and to prepare for, unless action is taken over a long period. The next type of disaster mentioned is cyclones. The part of them which does the damage appears only in a very restricted area. The cyclone that hit Townsville recently, for instance, did great damage in only a very narrow strip - an area only a few miles wide. Cyclones are very shortlived, but they do a tremendous amount of damage in a few hours. The work of restoring property immediately after a cyclone has hit must be left to the local people; there is nobody else to do it. Communications usually break down. In Townsville even the radio stations were out of action for a while, f would like to tell an old story about cyclones on the north Queensland coast in the days before radio. After one cyclone was over and the telegraph lines were repaired, the first delayed message that came through was the cyclone warning. 
The other disaster mentioned is earth movements. They happen in a few seconds, as has been explained. Sometimes they are followed by fire. Fortunately, they are very rare in Australia. The words 'prepare for' are used in the matter of urgency, but 1 do not know how one prepares for an earthquake. The other type of disaster mentioned is droughts. Sometimes they are local, but very often they are widespread and of long duration. They have a very insidious effect because they are very different from the other disasters. 
I come now to the second part of  Senator Murphy's  matter of urgency - 'deal with'. Apparently this relates to action after the disaster. The first phase in a major disaster, apart from droughts, is rescue work, which must start as soon as possible and can be done only by the local people; there is nobody else there. The next phase is to bring in outside assistance. This has always been done with the utmost speed. In the past, as soon as the State concerned applied to the Federal Government for assistance, it was readily given. The armed Services are usually asked by the Federal Government to help. In Townsville the Services did a very good job. We have heard it mentioned already that the Opposition does not believe that we should have armed Services. Then the Opposition says that we should establish a national organisation. If that organisation had the powers that organisations in some overseas countries have, it could order the armed Services to take action in a disaster. How absolutely ridiculous such a state of affairs would be. No government would allow any organisation, individual, commission or body to tell its armed Services what action to take. I think that would be ridiculous. 
No outside organisation has the power to order any country's armed Services about. 
This is my speech. You will have a chance to make yours. 
I was here when the honourable senator made his speech. The proposition of having a centralised organisation that can order the armed Services about will not work. It is not feasible. The next phase, as has happened in many instances, is to provide food, to get the homeless people into shelter and to restore services and communications. The final and longest phase is to get things back to normal. Then we come up against some of the things that have been mentioned already. I refer to the lack of insurance and the various forms of insurance. People have fire insurance policies, but those policies do not cover storm and tempest damage or damage caused by water and other things. There are quite a lot of problems connected with insurance. It is after disasters such as this that the local, State and Federal authorities combine to organise the rebuilding. 
I refer again to the problems associated with a drought. It is a slow and insidious type of calamity. One of the problems associated with a drought is that nobody knows how long it will last. If one were reasonably sure that one would have to make provision for the drought to last only  1, 3  or 6 months, tha: would make a very big difference. A drought is like a flood and all other disasters. No-one knows when there will be a flood. No-one knows when the drought will break. In a drought the livestock naturally are the worst affected. The loss or failure of crops can cause great economic hardship to the people concerned. In the past there has been no trouble getting the local, State and Federal authorities to co-operate to organise the various services that are necessary in times of drought - to provide fodder and to provide transport to take starving stock to better pastures. At what point is an area declared a drought area? In many cases this is very hard to define. When rain has fallen a declaration that the drought no longer exists in the area is necessary. 
Some calamities can be covered by insurance, some cannot. Grain growers and fruit growers, through their respective organisations, can insure against loss caused by a hail storm, for instance. I deal now with the point on which  Senator Maunsell  has been attacked. I think the people who attacked him misunderstood what he said. It is not possible to insure livestock against drowning in a flooded river because there is no way of proving that they are lost. The mere fact that they were washed down the flooded river is not evidence that they are lost. That is the ruling. A large proportion of those washed away probably come out alive further downstream. The owners cannot get them back. The owners cannot prove that they are lost, unless the owners produce the drowned carcass. That is what  Senator Maunsell  said when he made his speech. 
Cyclones occasionally strike the Queensland coast, but they very seldom strike twice in the one place. They are a bit like lighting. It is said that lightning never strikes twice. I think  Senator Keeffe  said that it is many years since Townsville had a cyclone or a disaster of the type that it had recently. Modern weather reports usually give some warning of an impending cyclone. There is considerable publicity about it. I point out that in the past the Queensland coastal resorts usually close in January, February and March - during the cyclone season. With better roads and better rail and air services they now operate all year. It has been mentioned- 
Thank you,  Mr President.  Storm and tempest insurance is available for properly damage caused by cyclones and storms, but there are always a number of people who do not carry this type of insurance. Some are unable to pay the premiums, as has been mentioned earlier. I refer to pensioners and others in that category. Some do not pay through straight out neglect. Some do not pay because they adopt the philosophy 'it cannot happen to me so I will not bother', lt is hard to say what we can do for these people. This is a free country and we cannot compel them to insure. 
Another problem that we come up against is the number of Australians who will persist in building in what are known to be flood areas. New people come to a town or ,to an area in which the river has a high flood once or twice in a lifetime. Some of the old hands tell these people: That land floods. You will get drowned there sooner or later'. The land is probably cheap. They persist in building there. The flood eventually comes. They are lucky to get away with their lives, but they lose all their possessions and they need considerable help. 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation seen a questionnaire which is being handed to passengers on a major domestic airline? As this questionnaire asks for a comparison of that airline's service with that of another airline, will the Minister arrange to have a synopsis of the answers published, even though some of them may be unfavourable to that airline? It is believed that many of the answers could be very helpful to the Department of Civil Aviation in providing a better service to air travellers and pointing out some of the shortcomings of the present service. 
My question to the Minister for Civil Aviation follows from his answer earlier regarding the stockpiling of oil pollution dispersants. Has any research been conducted into the threat which different types of oil pollution dispersants might present to the cultured pearl industry in the northern areas of Australia, to the Great Barrier Reef and to the fishing industry generally? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for National Development a question. In view of the big increase of the proved oil reserves in Australia as mentioned in today's Press will the Minister inform the Senate what percentage of the nation's oil requirements is now produced from Australian oil wells? Is this percentage likely to increase? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public Interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt  to  all dosing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a Joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree to which It should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Health. I refer to the reported import of 88 horses which have been placed in quarantine near Penrith because of an outbreak of strangles on the ship. Is the Minister confident that this airborne virus horse disease can be contained? In view of the large concentration of horses from all over Australia at the Sydney Show and for the Sydney Cup racing carnival, is there not a big risk of the disease spreading? As there has not been a major outbreak of strangles in Australia for many years and as the horse population has thus become vulnerable, will every precaution be taken to prevent an outbreak of the disease and so minimise the economic loss which this would cause? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONOn Friday last, I think, I issued a Press statement in which I advised what action had to be taken in relation to the horses that were due to arrive in Australia. I am sure that everybody would agree that action had to be taken. If the system works as it should, a copy of the Press release should have been put in the honourable senator's mail box ere this. There is no clinical evidence of disease in the horses other than strangles. In my statement I did point out that strangles is a complaint which is not unknown in Australia. The concentration of horses in the Sydney area at present is realised. It was for the protection of those horses, among other things, that action was taken. Very strict quarantine has been imposed on the imported horses. The object of the quarantine is to ensure that there is no risk of the spread of the disease, strangles. The quarantine has taken place, not because the disease, strangles, might have been present or because there might have been evidence of it, but because behind the strangles might have been implications of some other disease which could be subject to quarantine provisions. I make it abundantly clear that I completely confirmed the action taken by the Department of Health and agreed to it, not so much because of the strangles but because of the possibility that behind the complaint some other notifiable disease could be lurking. The property at Penrith has been declared a temporary quarantine station and all movements onto and from the property have been and are being strictly controlled in accordance with the requirements of the animal quarantine regulations. Every precaution has been taken to prevent any further outbreak of the strangles disease or any other disease which could possibly emerge. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the January-February 1972 edition of 'Postal News' that at a meeting at Beaumont on the South Coast of New South Wales to protest against the closure of the local non-official post office a spokesman for the Postmaster-General said that all post offices not operated by PMG employees would be shut down and that the closure was necessary because non-official post offices were no longer economical? Was that statement actually made? If so, is it correct? If it is not correct what action, if any, has been taken to correct the false impression which it has created in the minds of several thousand non-official postmasters and the public which they serve? 
1 propose to take a couple of minutes to add my support to the Bill. As has been explained, the $364m borrowed by the Australian Wheat Board from the Reserve Bank of Australia has to be repaid by the end of March as the law provides that credit can be given in transactions of this kind for not more than 12 months. The Board has been unable to dispose of all wheat from the 1970-71 crop and some that has been disposed of has been sold on credit, payment not having been made yet. The Government expects to spend $95m of the amount to be provided under the Bill but it has asked for Si 50m in case of emergencies.  Senator Wilkinson  mentioned that we had lost all wheat sales to the People's Republic of China, but I remind the Senate that China bought some of our 1970-71 crop. Figures which are available to me reveal that the United Kingdom was the biggest purchaser of Australian wheat, having bought wheat to the value of about $8lm; that the People's Republic of China bought wheat to the value of $57m; that the United Arab Republic, which has taken some of the wheat which formerly we would have expected to sell to the People's Republic of China, bought wheat to the value of $56m; that Japan bought Australian wheat to the value of $40m, in round figures; and that Iraq purchased our wheat to the value of $22m. Malaysia bought flour. Along with Singapore, Malaysia is now a whole grain buyer and it purchased $15m worth. Chile bought a considerable quantity of wheat as did other countries. This Bill is carrying out the principle of organised marketing of our primary products. It is purely a machinery measure. I believe that in view of the smaller crop of wheat produced during the year and the smaller amount held in store, quotas should be looked at and possibly lifted. If the markets in other countries improve we could conveivably face a situation where we would not have any carryover. That would be a very good position but we have to have some wheat kept in reserve in Australia. That is about all I can say in relation to the Bill. It should have a speedy passage through the Senate as well as the support of everybody because, as has been pointed out, it is purely a machinery measure. It is designed to guarantee the finances of the Australian Wheat Board. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Health about the horses that were put into quarantine just west of Sydney. Can the Minister now inform the Senate of the position regarding the quarantine of these horses? Have they been released from quarantine and is Australia free of all risk of any imported sickness spreading from them? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate why the Cannon Hill, Brisbane, abattoir has lost its licence to process meat for sale in the United States? How long is this suspension likely to last? I point out that the peak of the meat export season is approaching. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a report that the Brisbane shipbuilding firm of Evans Deakin Industries Ltd, will have to close down its shipyard if no more orders to build ships are received? As this will mean a big economic loss to many people immediately concerned, can the Minister inform the Senate whether there is any prospect of orders being received in the near future to build new ships? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport seen a report in today's Press that a motorist has claimed that he drove from Perth to Sydney at an average speed of 67 miles an hour? To maintain that average he must have travelled at greater speeds in some sections and must have driven for over 2,000 miles without rest. In view of the attempts of the Government to reduce the toll of the road, will the Minister confer with State Ministers in an endeavour to evolve means of stopping this type of driver from creating such a hazard to other road users and to himself? 
I have listened with great interest to my colleague from Queensland,  Senator McAuliffe.  J believe that with the help of many of his colleagues he made a very good election speech. What a pity the Senate proceedings are not being broadcast today. In spite of all the barking he mentioned in Queen Street, I agree with only one of his comments, namely, that he supports the Bill. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - There is absolutely no substance in the point of order. 
I have no prepared speech to read, but I have seen my colleague opposite read his speech on many occasions. As I said before, I agree with only one comment that  Senator McAuliffe  made, namely, that he supports the 13*11. It is most interesting to note that the Australian Labor Party was in power in Queensland for a very long time but at no time did it, as a mendicant State or a claimant State, make a claim on the Commonwealth Government. The Labor Government preferred to keep Queensland as the most backward State in the Commonwealth. We beard  Senator McAuliffe  criticise the Premier of Queensland for buying an aircraft so that he could service the State adequately. I presume that in the unlikely event of the Labor Party becoming the Government again in Queensland  Mr Houston,  as Premier, promptly will sell that aircraft rather than use it. 

 Senator McAuliffe mentioned the Totalisator Administration Board. The TAB has been established in Queensland and other States and is providing good revenue to help the various forms of racing in the States. What happened in the days before our Parties came to power in Queensland? Racing bodies received no revenue, except a little from the betting tax, and they were unable to subsidise racing. I now want to refer to the royalties on exports of bauxite and coal, a subject which was mentioned by  Senator McAuliffe.  He did not tell the Senate that it had been known for quite a long time that there were bauxite deposits at Weipa. It was not until our Government came to power- 
1 did not say that. It was not until the Liberal-Country Party Government came to power that bauxite mining began. This was when the lats Ernie Evans was Minister for Mines.  Senator McAuliffe  did not tell the Senate that this development resulted in the investment of about $200m at Gladstone for processing this mineral. This investment led to very big development in thai part of Queensland. Coal also was mentioned by  Senator McAuliffe.  The carriage of coal is one of the best paying activities of the Queensland railways. The railways make a big profit out of it. Even if the coal royalty is low, as was suggested, the railways get all the freight revenue. Foreign companies were not allowed to build railways and to reap that part of the profit. Queensland workers get considerable income from mining the coal and new towns have been developed. Moura was there before but it is now a very big town. Blackwater, Morimbah and places like those have been developed as a result of coal exports.  Senator McAuliffe  referred to railway freights and said that the Centra! and Northern Divisions of the Queensland Railway Department made a profit. He suggested that the Southern Division finished with a very big loss but he did not tell honourable senators that most of that loss is incurred in the city of Brisbane. Would he or any members of his Party advocate increasing suburban fares in Brisbane? I do not think so. The freight rates that he referred to are not much different from those that have been charged for many years or those charged in the time of the previous Labor Governments. Freight rates have not been increased all that much since the LiberalCountry Party Government came to power; nor have they been changed very much. 
 Senator McAuliffe  can get examples out of the 'Year Book'. Queensland faces disability with its railway system because it has very long lines passing through sparsely populated areas. Possibly it has more such problems than any other State. In those circumstances it is difficult for the Queensland Government to operate its railways and make them pay with the amount of traffic offering over the long distances involved. Queensland is the most decentralised State in Australia. Tt was stated in the Press today that Brisbane's population has just about reached 700,000 and that about 400,000 people live more than 400 miles from that city. I do not think any other Australian State approaches that degree of decentralisation. This means that it must have long railway lines and long freight hauls, and this situation naturally contributes to the higher level of freight rates. There are some other things I would like to mention in support of Queensland getting this grant and becoming a claimant State.  Senator Gair  interjected to say that this detracts a little from the sovereignty of the State, but other things come into this question. 

 - Senator Keeffe will have his chance to make a speech in a little while. I want to quote some figures from the 'Queensland Year Book - 1970' for the 1968-69 financial year. 
You can quote thom if you can get them. The value of Queensland's exports was $677.5m. 
I am unable to say. I did not take out that information but it is available in the 'Queensland Year Book'. Its imports from overseas were only about $288. 5m so the State had quite a big surplus in exports over imports. But looking at that State's dealings with the other States - these are the tangible items, not the invisible items - it exported goods worth S495m to the other States but purchased from them goods worth $859m. When we add all these figures they show a surplus of exports over imports amounting to about S25m. What I am leading up to- 
 Senator Cavanagh  should listen to what I am saying. A lot of firms that operate in Queensland, and make a good profit there, have their headquarters in the southern States. These profits do not appear in the Queensland figures but they do appear in the reports emanating from the head offices of those firms in Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide. New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia are credited with the profits made in Queensland. They get the credit for income tax purposes and everything else. Queensland does not get credit in that respect for large sums of money. Certainly most of these items are intangibles. Insurance companies and other such organisations have their headquarters in Sydney and Melbourne and thus the other States get the benefit. 
Yes. More and more firms are adopting a centralised type of accounting and are requesting that their accounts be paid to their Sydney and Melbourne offices. Profits made in Queensland are going to the other States and therefore are being credited to those States. There are quite a few other things that I could mention. Much development has taken place, in Queensland despite the extended drought in the western areas and despite the collapse of wool prices. I believe that Queensland is quite justified in claiming this money. I want to refer to some of the things mentioned in this special report of the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The reports states: 
Dealing with police  expenditure,  the submission presented comparative information for Queensland and the standard States with regard to area, length of roads requiring traffic control ami supervision, length of coastline (requiring provision for search and rescue), density and distribution of population, lt pointed to the high cost of transfer of police and provision of relief for staff on leave arising from the large ureas and distances in the State. 
There are many such examples to be found. 

 - Senator McAuliffe had his chance to make a speech. He had the opportunity to refer to these things when he spoke and he did not cover them. 1 am doing that now. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
I ask Tor leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I had said that the amount provided in the Bill will be a big help to Queensland. In his second reading speech the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  said: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment of a special advance grant of $9m to Queensland in 1971-72. 
He also said: 
Clause 4, it might be noted, authorises the Treasurer to make payments to Queensland in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum of $4. 5m, which is half the grant payable this year. The purpose of this clause is to enable monthly payments to be made in the early months of 1972-73, in accordance with normal practice, against any special grant which might be recommended by the Commission, and approved by Parliament, for payments to Queensland in that year. 
My colleague  Senator McAuliffe  recited  a  lot of that he called failings in the Commonwealth Grants Commission's report, but he did not mention any of the things that the Government has done to develop Queensland in recent years. New ports have been established at Weipa and Hay Point. Weipa is a bauxite port; Hay Point is a coal port. In that time new railways have been built to haul coal. According to the latest report, the largest coal trains ever used have been used on the Goonyella to Hay Point line to increase the output of the Mines at Goonyella. A spur line to a new coalfield has just about been completed. This new coalfield will be able to export 9 million tons of coal a year, we are told. New towns have been developed at Moura, Goonyella, Blackwater and Weipa, to mention a few. This has meant a big development in areas where previously there were no towns of any size. Considerable progress has been made in providing services to those towns. No mention has been made in this debate of the tremendous development of bitumen roads in Queensland although it was referred to in the submission to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. Queensland, because of its huge area, needs many miles of bitumen ro ' along which not too many towns have been settled, and this takes a lot of money. The Queensland Government has acted to develop the State and although the grant to be authorised by this Bill is small, it will help to continue that development. 
No reference has been made to 2 very big water schemes being developed. The scheme at Emerald is now so far advanced that the first water is to be released there next Monday. Construction of a big dam has started at Bundaberg to consolidate irrigation works there and to ensure that sugar cane farms in the area do not suffer from periodic droughts. In this debate no honourable senator has referred to the development of the brigalow area or of the plans to have Queensland served by 2 electricity grids. It will not be long before those 2 grids are interconnected to the far west of Queensland and electricity lines will run from the New South Wales border to Cooktown. That will be a major achievement. 
A super power house is under construction at Gladstone and others are planned. All this development in Queensland must be assisted by grants from the Commonwealth. A new arterial road system is being developed for Brisbane. A tremendous amount of money is being spent there to ease traffic problems and to help to speed up the traffic flow. Progress has also been made in education. Tremendous development has taken place in providing new high schools in recent years. Relief has been extended to farmers, graziers and townspeople in the drought areas. This has cost the Queensland Government a considerable amount of money. 
I want to refer also to the free hospital system in Queensland, one of the achievements of a Queensland Labor Government for which I give credit to  Senator Gair.  We have continued the free hospital scheme. I understand that it was one factor that made it very difficult in the past for Queensland to be a claimant State. As I said earlier, I believe that Queensland is entitled to a special grant as in that State substantial profits are earned for companies in the southern States. Although those profits are made in Queensland, they are credited to southern Stale companies. I confidently believe that the present Queensland Government will continue in office for a long while yet for the benefit of that State. T hope that this grant will be the start of considerably more Commonwealth help in the future. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General a question. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to reports from overseas that unscrupulous people have discovered that it is possible for anyone to make STD calls at no cost to themselves from emergency telephones in lifts? Will the Minister ask the Postmaster-General's Department to take action to counter this move by making it impossible for people to use emergency telephones in lifts for STD calls in Australia? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether his attention has been drawn to Press reports that insurance companies are to eliminate progressively from their policies the right of policy holders to claim for damage caused to property by sonic booms from supersonic aircraft. Will the Minister take up this matter with the insurance companies with a view to arriving at a more satisfactory solution and protecting property owners from loss through damage caused by sonic boom? 
 Why did they not strike? 

 Senator CAMERON - Because it is very hard to organise workers at Tibooburra and in outlying parts of Tasmania. Pastoral workers are scattered throughout the Commonwealth and it is impossible to organise them to take strike action. That is a pity. The Australian Workers Union would no doubt like to be able to get the station hands to do what the shearers did in 1956 when they went on strike and Commissioner Donovan increased their rate of pay. Honourable senators on the Government side do not want to be fooled into thinking that members of the Australian Workers Union will not go on strike when the occasion arises. I believe that last Thursday the Commissioner gave some relief to these workers in the industry. However, they have not yet received anything near the amount that similar workers in industry get for the number of hours that they work 
Although the Federal pastoral industry award was the only award excluded from the flow-on following the national wage case in 1970 and in 1971-72, another award could be affected in the same way next year. It could be the fruit preservers industry award or the vehicle builders industry award. The Government gives instructions to the Commission that cetain workers under its jurisdiction should not receive the flow-on contemplated by the Commission. I believe this is a dangerous situation. By its submissions to the Commission, the Government is spelling out how the judgments should be written. The Attorney-General could not have done a better job of writing a judgment to comply with the Government's submissions to the Commission than did the Commission. Everything in that submission has been complied with. This is another reason why we oppose any increase in the penalties and sanctions that are already in the Act. We oppose any interference in the amalgamation of unions when the unions themselves consider the amalgamation necessary. The unions have ample provision in their constitutions and rules to cover any amalgamation registered in the Commission. This is proved by the recent biggest amalgamation in the history of arbitration in Australia, namely, the amalgamation of the metal trades unions. 
The Bill contains proposals for prvention of amalgamation of unions and for increased penalties on unions that do not comply with decisions of commissioners, though they may be bad decisions. When unions, by negotiation with employers reach agreement on rates of pay, working conditions and other conditions of work, they may be thwarted by the provision that enables the Commission to prvent implementation of such agreements. 1 have outlined the reasons why we are opposing the second reading of this Bill. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to an article in the Sydney Press of this morning which states that synthetic meat will be on sale in Brisbane shops in a few weeks at 8c per lb? Can the Minister state where thi's meat is to be manufactured and how it will be labelled? 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I am glad to see that my friend from Queensland,  Senator Georges,  is wholeheartedly behind the Australian Institute of Marine Science 
Bill 1972. This Bill has as its purpose the establishment of the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville in Queensland. I point out that the Australian continent has a coastline of 12,000 miles. The sea is of immense importance to us in very many ways. The position of Australia is unique in that it is the only country on earth which occupies the whole of a continent completely surrounded by the sea. This makes the sea even more important to Australia. 
In his second reading speech, when speaking on the establishment of this Institute of Marine Science, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  referred to the term 'marine science' in this way: li covers a vast field ranging from biological studies in the littoral zone through to the deep waters beyond the continental shelf; from physical studies of the bays and estuarine waters to the deep ocean and the sea floor. 
There is a great deal that we do not know about marine research. One vast field open for study is that of ocean temperatures. These  Vary  greatly at different depths and different areas and are very much affected by tides and currents. There is a vast amount that we still do not know about the marine life around our shores and the- 
I suggest that  Senator Keeffe  will be able to make his own speech later on. There is a great deal that we do not know about the food on which fish and other marine creatures feed. We do not know what future effects may arise from any upset in the balance of nature that we may cause. An important implication of the establishment of this Institute is that it will research the possibility of food from marine sources being used to feed future generations of the human race. It may be that when we reach the limit of production on the land the sea will be able to provide a considerable quantity of food for the survival of mankind. 
Another point made by the Minister in his second reading speech concerns the provision of a boat for the Institute. The Minister referred to a boat of approximately 80 feet in length and said that the  Government  was considering the acquisi tion of a boat of 120 feet in length. I think it would be a pity to impair the research undertaken by this Institute by equipping it with a smaller boat. 1 think the boat should be as big as this Government can afford and we should give all the help that we can to the Institute. 
It may be more useful in some places but it would have to be seaworthy and be able to stand up to pretty rough weather. There has been some criticism of the selection of Townsville as the site for this Institute because of the possibility of pollution of the water by the nickel refinery. The selection of Townsville as the site was, I am told, influenced by many other matters than the availability of seawater close at hand. If an aquarium has to be established there is no absolute necessity for it to be at the site of the Institute at Cape Pallarenda, near Townsville. The selection of Townsville as the site was influenced by the need to have the land base close to a big centre of population where all essential services and facilities were available and to make it possible for the Institute to work in conjunction or co-operation with the James Cook University. There are many good reasons why we should endorse the selection of Townsville as the site for the Institute. lt was pointed out in the Minister's second reading speech and in the debate in the other place that the possible pollution of the water would not present a problem to the establishment of an aquarium because, as I said, it could be built further away.  Senator Georges  referred to the crown of thorns starfish. There is considerable difference of opinion in regard to recent attacks on the Reef alleged to have been made by the crown of thorns starfish. 
I am making this speech. Recently a man in Cairns wanted to obtain a few crown of thorns starfish for scientific research. He sent parties out to the Reef but they could not find any starfish. Another point I would like to make is that it has been suggested by some people that devastation of the coral could be caused by cyclones. This, no doubt, will be the subject of investigation. However I would like to point out one significant fact that has not been mentioned so far, and that is that the Torres Strait Islanders who have been in that area for many centuries had a word for the crown of thorns starfish, although their language is not a written language. So the starfish is not a newcomer to the Reef. 
As near as we can make it, the word is spelt ......-----, It is interesting to note that the crown of thorns starfish was known to be in the Reef area prior to European settlement. 
I think it must have been there in considerable numbers for the Islanders to have a name for it. It has also been said that this is nature's way of maintaining the balance of nature. This would be a subject for investigation. Coral spreads very rapidly if it is left alone in its natural environment. 
Sitting suspended from 1.00 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the luncheon suspension I was talking about the crown of thorns and the growth of coral. Much investigation has to be carried on in this area. Some people say that the coral is kept under control and prevented from spreading everywhere by the crown of thorns, but there are cycles of destruction and regrowth. A cycle takes place over a long period, but the investigation has to look into this question. This is the purpose of setting up the institute. A great deal has to be learnt in this field as well as many other fields. While I am on the subject of coral, 1 would like to mention that our neighbour, New Caledonia, has the second largest coral reef area in the world; it is second only to Australia's Great Barrier Reef. At Noumea in New Caledonia there is a very interesting museum displaying species of coral which I have never seen before. This coral has ben extracted from very deep areas of the ocean and it cannot be exposed to light for very long periods. As I have said, a great deal has to be learnt about these areas of our marine life. 
This proposed institute will be able to receive, under the provisions of the Act, endowment payments. People will be able to leave legacies to the institute, and this will help to strengthen the institute and enable it to do much more research in the future. In his second reading speech the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said: 
Our fisheries are growing in importance and are attracting international interests. 
Many vessels which service the fish cannery at Pago Pago in American Samoa are fishing in the South Pacific area. I have been told that some of these vessels come into Queensland waters in the Gulf of Carpentaria and take away our tuna for canning at Pago Pago. I believe that as this institute of marine science is established we could develop along these lines. When we learn the answers to many of the current problems we will be in a position to expand greatly not only our knowledge of the marine life but also our commercial interests. 
Through this research we can learn also what quantities of the various marine creatures we can take safely from the ocean. In our lifetime we have seen the decimation of the whale population. Whales are not peculiar to Australia in any sense. We have seen most of the whaling stations of the world close. Supposedly there was an international agreement in relation to the killing of whales. Apparently that agreement was not observed and the whale population has almost been decimated. We do not want that to happen to any of the species of fish which are found in the waters close to Australia. When we obtain the necessary knowledge as a result of the research carried out by the proposed Institute we will be able to ensure that it will not happen. I believe there should be liaison between this institute and other similar institutions in various parts of the world. There could be an exchange of information which would be to the benefit of mankind in the long run. 
I do not see any reason why we should not. 
I do not see any reason why we cannot. This Bill provides the framework on which can be built a research institute which will take its place among the great marine research institutes of the world. I commend the Bill to the Senate and support it wholeheartedly. 
1 address a question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Has his attention been drawn to reports that Australian tourists are stranded in Malta because airline tickets which were sold to them are alleged to have been stolen? Will the Minister cause investigations to be made into the allegation that stolen airline tickets are being sold in Australia? Can the Minister give the Senate any information about the reported failure of another travel agency in Australia? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport been drawn to a report in this morning's Press that the Australian National Line is to have a new container ship, 730 feet long, built in Japan? Will the Minister further consider the matter with a view to having this ship built in Australia and so help preserve the Australian shipbuilding industry and the jobs of many Australians? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. I refer to the Minister's statement on airline policy made last Tuesday in which, among other things, he said that Trans-Australia Airlines will be given immediate rights to operate air services in competition with Ansett Airlines of Australia between Cairns, Weipa and Thursday Island. I ask the Minister: When TAA starts to operate on this run will fares and freight rates be reviewed? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Civil Aviation, Referring to the Minister's statement on 29th August last that Trans-Australia Airlines will get the right to operate on more routes, can the Minister inform the Senate when TAA will commence its air services on the Cairns-Weipa-Thursday Island route? 
I support this motion.  Senator Byrne  seeks to refer this matter to the Senate Standing Committee on Education, Science and the Arts for investigation and report. The Committee will take evidence. It will go into the matter thoroughly to find out what is the best proposal to help children living in isolated areas in respect of their education. It will see what can be done to give to those children educational opportunities equal to those of children living in more favoured areas. It will seek to find the manner in which these children can be provided with an education suitable to their talents and interests, which will equip them for employment in the occupational field which they select. The Committee will inquire also into the way in which it can help to prevent these children from becoming second class citizens. I draw to the attention of the Senate that, in the current financial year, the appropriation for the Department of Education and Science is $426m. I do not think that this comparatively small number of children would require a big vote out of that appropriation to enable them to enjoy chances equal  to  those of children in other parts of the community. 
 Ways of doing this would be found. In the early 1920s, Australia produced a great man. I refer to the Reverend John Flynn, known as Flynn of  the  Inland,  who  realised that one  of the  greatest hazards facing people living in isolated  areas was the  lack  of  medical attention  in  case of accident or sickness. 
Flynn, together with another South Australian, developed the pedal radio system. The use of this system increased and, partly by accident and partly by the development of its use,  it  became part  of  the School of the Air to which  Senator Cavanagh  has referred. 
Several such School of the Air undertakings operate in Australia. I think that there are 3 in Queensland. The others are scattered in the various States. These Schools of the Air do have limitations to my way of thinking. They provide a very good service. But, whatever is done, supervision of the child student in the home is required. The organisation to which  Senator Byrne  has referred has said that a governess to supervise even one child in School of the Air work would cost $1,200 a year. A child cannot be left to answer the teacher on the School of the Air broadcast and to communicate with the teacher. Supervision is needed. A family may not be able to afford a governess. So, more work is put on the already overworked mother. I think that this is one of the weaknesses of this system.. The Correspondence School and the School of the Air systems are wonderful. But they have these weaknesses: Either the work must be performed by the mother or money must be found to employ a governess. 
These systems have one or two other weaknesses that I have seen. These children do not mix with other children when they are educated at home. When they do mix with other children, they suffer a terrible shock and they are under a considerable handicap. I remember being in Broken Hill one day and seeing the annual sports day of the School of the Air in that district. Children came from 300 miles and 400 miles away for that one day of the year. They saw their fellow School of the Air pupils. They met with other children. But this was not quite enough to give them the confidence that is required to take one's place in life today. Queensland has a remote area allowance. 
 Yes, I have a solution. We must  get  these children away from their homes  as  much as possible and enable them  to  attend schools by paying allowances to stay at hostels and subsidies to attend boarding schools. This is being done today with respect to Australia's Aboriginal children. I do not think that a great deal of money would be required to ensure that this comparatively small number  of  children had some chance to attend at boarding school. 
 1 do not think so.  I  mentioned the remote area allowance in Queensland. It goes a little way towards helping in sending these children to hostels or to schools. An allowance is paid in Queensland also - I think it applies in some of the other States as well - for the person, perhaps the mother, who drives children to state schools if they are within a reasonable distance of those schools. Again, this imposes a hardship on the mother. Probably she must make 2 trips a day each of 20 miles. While she does receive some allowance - probably it is only enough to meet the cost of the petrol used on the journey - the time taken for the trip eats a big hole in her day and extra work is imposed on her. 
We have the other case, as has been pointed out, of the families which have split homes, as they are called. This means that the mother and several children go into a town nearby to their home - it may be 50 miles, 60 miles or 100 miles away - to rent and use accommodation for 4 nights of the week so that the children may attend school in that town. This part of the family returns to the family home for the weekend and is there for the remaining 3 nights of the week. Extra work is created. Additional expense is involved in maintaining 2 homes. This problem must be considered. No doubt the Senate Committee will look at it. Hostels are difficult to maintain. I know that problems exist in this area.  Senator Byrne  pointed out that this matter does not apply only to the children of station managers or property owners. It applies to the children of people living in scattered areas and to the children of bush workers and itinerant workers. It concerns those people who want their children to have a fair chance of getting some education in life. 
 The Committee will determine that. It will go into the matter. We are debating now a motion for the reference of this matter to the Committee. We are not providing the solution. The Isolated Children's Parents Association is very strong, lt has its headquarters in Bourke in New South Wales. We commend it for what it has done and hope that its scheme will get off the ground and will achieve something. We must see that all Australian children, wherever they live and whatever the occupation of their parents, are given the same educational opportunities to fit them for their chosen occupations in life as children in more favoured areas receive. 1 support the motion. 
My question without notice is directed to the Attorney-General. Firstly, in view of the greatly increased number of bombings, bomb threats and bomb hoaxes in recent weeks in Australia, will the Government give consideration to amending the Crimes Act or other Acts to provide for much greater penalities for persons caught using the telephone to make bomb threats? Secondly, will the  Government make every effort to  halt this outbreak of lawlessness and threatened lawlessness now taking place in our usually peaceful and law-abiding country, apparently by those who seek to change our way of life? 
Sen-tor GREENWOOD- lt is a fact that after the tragic happenings on Saturday there was a number of what must be described as bomb hoaxes, because the time of the police was taken up in investigating calls which were made to the police claiming that bombs were planted in various places. That certainly was a public mischief which the police had to investigate; it took up their time and prevented their activities being directed to the main matters with which we are all concerned. It is more than a public mischief, even though that is the language which the law would ascribe to it, and I believe there is  a  case for examining not only the provisions of the law which deal with that sort of offence but also the provisions of the Post and Telegraph Act which deals with the use of the telephone for that purpose. 
I will certainly discuss that matter with the Postmaster-General. I feel it is one of the overall problems which our society has to cope with when there is an incident which features some degree of violence and lawlessness. This leads on and on. This is a part of the problem which the Government has been concerned to point out emphatically at times, and I think it is something which we all ought to recognise. Added to that is the inconvenience which is caused by people who, for some curious reasons, seem to take advantage of tragedy and outrage to create a feeling of dismay and fear by giving false reports of bombs being planted in various places. I feel that the appropriate line here, quite apart from police investigations, is to make clear to the community just what is happening, in the hope that we will have a community acceptance of what is proper conduct and a community abhorrence of all these various tactics which are being engaged in - an abhorrence which leads to rejection and repudiation of the persons who engage in them. 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a Press report that Courtauld's Ltd intends producing synthetic meat from protein fat using the spinning process which produces its textile yarns and that hopes are high that sausage and pie makers will find it an improvement on the traditional fillers now used? Will the Minister refer this matter to the attention of the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Minister for Primary Industry and ensure that this product, if sold in Australia, is not sold as synthetic meat? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Education and .Science been drawn to Press reports of a so-called demonstration of pupil power by small groups of high school students in Australian cities? Has this socalled demonstration been aided, abetted and encouraged by some prominent Australians who have advocated the defiance of authority and who have stated that authority has had its day? Is the wilful destruction by fire of property, school ties, belts, etc., the action of responsible youth? Will the Government consider withdrawing all forms of educational aid from these small minority groups because it is a waste of taxpayers' money, apparently not needed and certainly not appreciated? 
 Mr President,  my question is addressed to you. Firstly has your attention been drawn to the fact that many of the clocks in Parliament House show a different time from others? The difference is as much as 5 or 10 minutes. Secondly, will you investigate the cause of this difference, because it creates some confusion? Thirdly, will you see whether it can be rectified? 
1 too support this Bill and commend it to the Senate. It is part of the social services programme embraced by the Budget and it is part of a new deal in social services which will lead to the abolition of the means test in the not too distant future, it is a simple Bill of 4 clauses which, as the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  said in his Budget Speech, provides that the personal care subsidy for aged persons will be doubled, lt is as simple as that, though many other points were mentioned by honourable senators who spoke earlier in this debate. The Government wants to pass this Bill as soon as possible because, as the Bill itself states, it will come into effect as soon as it receives royal assent. The increases it provides will be paid almost immediately if it has a speedy passage through the Senate. I have noted that this Bill was not even debated in the other place; the Minister made his second reading speech and it went straight through. 
That may be so. As a result of our way of life people have achieved a greater average life span and there is a greater percentage of elderly people in our community. Therefore the community at large has an even greater requirement to care for the aged. This is a problem of our civilisation and of our way of life; we simply have to provide care for a greater number of aged people. Elderly people feel lonely. Then there is the problem that many elderly people feel unwanted; they believe that nobody cares about them. I know that this is a sincere and genuine feeling and that in many cases it is very difficult to overcome. There is the problem of loss of freedom of people in homes or institutions and there is the problem of providing homes or institutions close to the usual place of living of the persons in those homes or institutions. If an elderly person is taken right away to another part of the State in which he lives, he is right out of his environment and his relatives and friends are unable to visit him. This has a disastrous effect on many old people. But if we can provide some form of accommodation for or some way of looking after these people in their own home areas so that their friends can visit them, this has a very great psychological effect on them in their old age. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  in his second reading speech said: 
I am sure all honourable senators will agree that these people, by their past contribution to the development of this country, have earned the special considerations provided in the Budget. 
The doubling of the rate of personal care subsidy together with the implementation of a special 3-year crash programme to stimulate the provision of more hostel-type accommodation should correct a pressing shortage of suitable accommodation to the frail aged. 
Later in his speech he said: 
To qualify for the subsidy a home must provide meals and employ sufficient staff to help any residents who need assistance with bathing and dressing, room cleaning, personal laundry and the general oversight of their medication. In addition a staff member must be on hand at all times in case of emergency. 
As 1 think  Senator Davidson  has already mentioned, the people who provide this type of service for the aged must be dedicated people and they are to be commended for their work. I have always advocated that social service help for the aged should be increased during each 5-yearly period over the age of 65 years because as people get older they become less able to fend for themselves and need more and more help. In this Bill we are establishing to some extent, the principle, by providing this additional service for those over 80 years of age. It is another example of the humanitarian legislation introduced by the present Government to help our elderly citizens. I support the Bill and commend it to the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the lack of reserves of petrol in Queensland due to previous industrial trouble and now a new spate of industrial trouble at the Ampol refinery in Brisbane which is likely to bring Queensland to a halt due to a shortage of petrol, will the Minister request the Prime Minister to confer with the Premier of Queensland to see whether emergency supplies of petrol can be provided for Queensland? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONI will refer the matter, as requested, to the Prime Minister's Department for examination. I did hear a radio report early this morning of the extent of the crisis which apparently is developing in Queensland and, if that was an accurate report of the situation, it is a very serious matter that more than 50 per cent of the normal retail consumption of petrol in Queensland could be affected almost within days. It is a very critical matter. The Commonwealth will intervene if necessary. Any assistance which the Commonwealth Government can give in this matter will very properly be given. But this is an industrial matter. I wonder whether the honourable senator wishes this to be referred to the Prime Minister's Department rather than to the Department of Labour and National Service. But that can be sorted out now that the honourable senator's question has made its first impact. That will be done without further reference to the honourable senator. 
1 understand that the Gift Duty Bill and the Gift Duty Assessment Bill are being debated together with the Estate Duty Assessment Bill, ls that the position? 
I support the 3 Bills. The Estate Duty Bill marks a big step forward by the Commonwealth Government. As a result of this measure the income from Federal death duties will be reduced by about 25 per cent, although the reduced rate of duty will not apply to all estates. Instead of receiving $72m in revenue in death duties, which is the amount received in the last financial year, the Government will receive an amount about 25 per cent less than that. That is the big leap forward. It will be of great help and provide a significant breakthrough for those who support the total abolition of death duties throughout Australia. 
The exemption in relation to gift duty is to be lifted from $4,000 to $10,000. That also will be a big help and will mean that every 18 months or so it will be possible to make a gift of $10,000 without attracting Federal gift duty, although the gifts would attract State gift duty. This provi sion will greatly assist in reducing the death duties that would be payable eventually. lt is interesting to note that if the Australian Country Party's policy for the total abolition of death duty is carried out, the need for gift duty will vanish, or very nearly vanish. So by eliminating death duties completely we remove the need for gift duties. Some States still levy a State gift duty. I understand that State gift duty is not payable in New South Wales whereas it is payable in Queensland. In this respect there is some inequality between the States. 
I am the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations which is charged with an inquiry into all aspects of estate duty and gift duty. I understand that because we have a daily Hansard report of proceedings of the Committee I am at liberty to quote from the public evidence received by the Committee in the course of its inquiry. I have been informed that by having a published Hansard report of our proceedings we are regarded automatically as reporting to the Senate. Naturally I cannot anticipate the final report of the Committee, as its inquiry relates to a very wide range of problems. One problem with which we have been confronted is the valuation of estates. Under the law as it stands today - 1 do not think we can alter it very much - the valuation must be made at. the date of death. In some American States the executors of or beneficiaries under a will may elect any date within 12 months for valuation purposes, but valuation at the date of death seems to be the only fair method. Nevertheless it does create some problems, because assets are frozen until death duties are paid and it becomes very difficult for executors to realise on the assets. The Committee has had mentioned to it the case of people who own a considerable value in shares. If a man who had invested heavily in shares died at the height of a share boom and it was perhaps 6 months before the executors had settled the affairs of the estate, the shares could in the meantime have dropped to about one-quarter of the previous value. This would create a great many complications. I understand that in some cases people have been unable to pay the duty and the estate has been bankrupt for the reason I have just mentioned. 
One of the problems associated with death duties as they are levied at present is the freezing of assets. Another trouble is the effect on some sectors of the community as compared with others. I should like to refer to the rural sector, in which people must have most of their capital tied up in property. In most cases practically all their capital is tied up in property and they are unable to dispose of it if they want their property to remain viable. Once half the property, or even portion of it, has been sold, the property ceases to be a viable enterprise. This is one of the great problems that gift duties create for the rural sector. Although people in the rural sector represent about 6 per cent of the population and pay about 6 per cent of the income tax, they pay between 40 per cent and 50 per cent of the death duties. These figures relate to the Australia-wide position. 
Very interesting,  Mr Minister. 
They are available in some of the evidence presented to the Committee. 
I propose to mention those 3 figures only and they will be incorporated in Hansard automatically. 
I forget who gave the evidence, but I am sure that the figures appear somewhere in the Hansard report of our proceedings. I have mentioned how the estate duty applies to the rural sector. I propose now to refer to other sectors of the community and to mention first the professional man. We have been told that whatever he might have paid towards obtaining the degree or qualifications needed by him to practise his profession, the country still pays a considerable amount towards his training. I am surprised at how much it costs the country, through scholarships and educational assistance, to enable a man to possess professional qualifications. Because of those qualifications he is able to earn a good income, but when he dies the qualifications die with him and the Commonwealth receives no return in duty for its outlay in training him. The only duty -payable is on his savings. I invite honourable senators to compare the situation of that man with the position of someone in the rural sector. 
I refer next to business of various kinds, most of which normally have some liquid funds. Usually people in business are able to disperse those funds whereas, as I have explained already, once a rural property is broken up beyond a certain point it ceases to be viable and to provide a living area. That generates all sorts of problems. It is easier for people in the non-rural sectors of the community to minimise the effect of duties, and action to achieve this is taken throughout most parts of the country. We are trying to find out the actual extent of this. There are many methods by which duties may be minimised. One method is the formation of companies or partnerships. Different methods which have so far proved to be legal have been mentioned to us. The Bray case shows that one cun give a loan, without interest, repayable on demand; the Gorton case revealed methods which are still legal and still availed of. And there are many other ways to minimise death duty which can be ascertained on good legal and accountancy advice. 
The policy of the Country Party is for total abolition of death duties. The federal revenue from such duties is a little over 1 per cent of total revenue representing a little over S70m of a total revenue of about S8,000m. The States get a much bigger percentage of their revenue from death duties. It is about 15 per cent or 16 per cent in most States. Many States have already made reductions in death duties. I do not think they would agree at present to a total abolition of death duties but they may agree to a progressive abolition. There are some people who fear that if the Commonwealth vacated the field completely the States would pick up the tab, but I do not think that is likely because they would have to compete with each other and I am sure that the more attractive States would get the business. Then we have the position of the Australian Capital Territory. What will happen there if the Commonwealth vacates the field? The duties in the Australian Capital Territory are Commonwealth duties only - no State duties are involved - so people in the Australian Capital Territory would have a definite advantage. 
An unusual situation exists in the Northern Territory. The Committee has discovered after a lot of researching that the application of death duties in the Northern Territory operates under an Act - it has been a bit difficult to get hold of this Act passed by the Parliament of South Australia - and assented to on 25th October 1893. That Act is still in force in the Northern Territory. In the Northern Territory the application of duty starts on estates valued at £500 and that on estates of between £500 and £700 left to lineal descendants there is a duty of  H  per cent. In relation to estates left to strangers in blood there is no exemption. On estates under £200 the rate is 1 per cent. The maximum rate in each category is 10 per cent at the £200,000 level. I understand from inquiries 1 have made in one of the Estimates Committees that an amount of $79,000 was collected in death duties in the Northern Territory in the last financial year. It is interesting to note that the Attorney-General's Department is charged not only with the collection of death duties in the Northern Territory but also with the assessment of estates. Commonwealth duties are not uniform throughout Australia and the Territories when we have situations of that nature. 
I have had letters from all over Australia on this matter. They have come from the city and the country and all have appealed for total abolition. The general feeling of the people concerned is that the breadwinner has paid taxes all his life and has not been able to accumulate a huge fortune or build up a massive estate because of taxation. Taxation looks after that or is supposed to look after it. But he is taxed again when he dies and this burden falls heavily on the beneficiaries, those people whom he has worked for and tried to help and provide for in later life, to save them from being a charge on the State and having to get a pension. I have had letters of this nature from all over Australia. There have been several cases of widows having to get a social service pension while the estate is being finalised. When the estate is made available, the duty is paid and the assets cease to be frozen there is enough money to provide an adequate living for the widow and family in many cases. But in the meantime what have they to do? They have to eat and live and consequently there have been many instances where these people have had to get help from the Department of Social Services. 
We have had cases in the rural sector and in the cities where estates through a fall in wool prices or prices in the cities have become hopelessly bankrupt through the application of death duties. The people involved would have been able to carry on but for the death duties. The Committee in receiving evidence has heard a lot of such cases. It has come to believe from the facts it has gathered that a new thinking on death duties is evolving right throughout the world. It is no longer necessary to break up big estates which is why the system began in the States prior to federation. Federally it was started during World War I to raise money to help pay for the war and it is interesting to read Hansard of that time. Some Ministers and the Government then said that it would help to break up big estates but there are not too many big estates of that nature around the country now. There are not too many people who can accumulate that sort of estate in a lifetime. So it has become a revenue tax and a form of double lax in many cases on the beneficiaries, widows and children who are least able to afford it. The larger estates in many cases are using the tax avoidance schemes I have mentioned. Therefore death duties in their present form are not fulfilling their purpose of stopping the accumulation of wealth, as has been stated on many occasions. The bigger estates are able to afford lawyers and accountants to obtain advice on how to practice tax and death duty avoidance legally. 
The new thinking has been applied in the United Kingdom where considerable concessions have been granted, even greater concessions than we have granted here. In many parts of the United States of America the same thing has happened. This Government is to be commended on the start it has made. I hope it will be only a start and that we will go on to provide further exemptions and further concessions until the duty is totally eliminated. 1 hope that we will be able to assist businesses, especially in the rural sector, to achieve greater prosperity rather than be wrecked several times in a short period because of a succession of deaths. One Opposition senator said that there was a provision for such cases, but that provision applies only in respect to a 3 or 5-year period. It is a help if 2 people die in the one year but it is not much help after that because one has to pay estate duty again. This does not help the stability of our country or our cities particularly in respect of the appreciation in the values of homes in our bigger cities. Until this concession was made by the Commonwealth Government many people who were never involved before and who never dreamed that they would be, came within the ambit of the death duty provisions. They are still liable for the estate duties in States which have not provided the exemptions or reduced their taxes as the Commonwealth has done. I commend these Bills and hope that they have a speedy passage and that they will be the start of many more exemptions until we get complete abolition of death duties. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that  a  small group of militant left wing  and Communist unionists have by their actions caused the closure of a$120m alumina refinery expansion project at Gladstone, Queensland and the dismissal of 1,200 men employed on the project? It is reported that there have been 900 unauthorised stoppages on the job in 2 years. As the Federal Government is investing$80m in a super-powerhouse at Gladstone to help expand alumina production, will the Minister make it quite clear to the unions concerned that their action could jeopardise the whole aluminium refinery industry in Australia by forcing the companies to do the work elsewhere and so cause the loss of jobs to many thousands of Australian workers? 
I desire to ask a question of the Attorney-General. Can he inform the Senate of the reasons stated by the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory in its judgment ordering the handing back to Taiwanese authorities of the fishing boats which were seized for allegedly fishing in Australian waters? 
I shall be brief, I support this legislation which last year provided Queensland with §9m and this year will provide it with Si Om. Despite what  Senator McAuliffe  said, there are no ties to this money. Queensland will not have to change the set-up of its free hospital system. I point out that Queensland supplies the Australian nation with a substantial part of its export income. Queensland's balance of trade overseas is very much in our favour but ils balance of trade with the other States is decidedly not so good, lt is the opposite. Queensland spends more in the other States than the other states buy from Queensland. The amount of export income that Queensland earns for Australia's balance of trade is fairly substantial. 
Many companies in Queensland have their head offices in other States, particularly in the capitals of Sydney and Melbourne, so the profits they make in Queensland are not credited to Queensland but to the taxation revenue and income, of other Stales. This is another reason why Queensland should receive a share of grants from the Commonwealth Government. Queens land has great developmental projects under way and these will continue to increase the prosperity of that State. They will help substantially in gaining income for Queensland. It is hoped that in the not too distant future Queensland may not need Commonwealth assistance but for the time being such assistance is of tremendous help to that State. 
The previous  speaker, Senator McAuliffe,  referred to the situation at Gladstone. I think he knows, and all honourable senators know, that Gladstone has mushroomed quickly and that despite all the spending by the Gladstone town council in providing such services as water, sewerage and electricity, it cannot possibly keep pace with the development of that town which is fast becoming a city. Houses cannot be built fast enough. Most people would agree that those who work for and gain their livelihood from the companies in that town are entitled to decent living conditions but it is a physical impossibility to provide such conditions almost overnight. The town council can only do its best.  1  forget the actual figures, but the Gladstone town council has spent a lot of money in the last four or five years in providing and expanding services for its people. 
 That is so. The area must progress. I commend this Bill to the Senate and wholeheartedly support it. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Health been drawn to a report from London that the British Government has announced that its scientific advisers are urgently studying claims that diseased potatoes might be causing 2 of the commonest forms of congenital birth defects? Will the Minister keep in touch with the British authorities to ensure that his Department is kept fully informed of the results of the United Kingdom investigation? 
I have sought some briefing and I should say that this matter was considered by the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-committee of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee at its second meeting which was held on Friday, 27th October 1972. A statement is to toe released by the  Chairman  of that Sub-committee and it will appear very soon. I think that I should say, in the light of the fact that a public release is to be made by the Congenital Abnormalities Sub-committee, that there is an awareness of potato blight in this country and my job will be to have the release of that statement made as quickly as possible. In the meantime I think we should not disregard the possibility of some caused link being involved in the situation. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he has jurisdiction over all primary industries north of the 26th parallel of south latitude or does the Minister for Northern Development have oversight over some of the primary industries in that area, particularly the sugar industry? 
I rise to support this urgency motion. I want to answer a couple, of things that the  Deputy  Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Willesee)  has said. First of all, he referred to an untenable border. There are many parts of the world where this situation occurs. For example, one can see part- of Indonesia just 2 or 3 miles from the island of Singapore. The situation where islands of one nation are very close to the coast of another nation occurs in many parts of the world. I do not think the situation in this particular case is of great worry to the Papua New Guineans.  Senator Willesee  said also that they have to go through Queensland waters to go to another part of Papua and New Guinea. It is less than 30 miles from those islands to West Irian. So they do not have to travel through very much Queensland water to go from one part of Papua and New Guinea to another. 
I do not believe that many members of the Parliament have been all around this area and know the set up.  Senator Willesee  forgets that the Torres Strait islanders are a unique race of people. They inhabit only these islands in the Torres Strait. They have no relations elsewhere in the world. They are not related to the mainland New Guineans or the Australian Aborigines. To divide their islands in any way would be like going into another country and cutting it in half or cutting off a bit. That is forgotten completely. I wish to point out that there are many misunderstandings about the Torres Strait. When seen on an atlas it looks like 80 miles of open sea. Nothing could be further from the case. It is a maze of reefs and islands. It has only one small passage through which any big boats can pass. That is the passage to which  Senator Byrne  referred, the great north east channel which is just north of Thursday Island and which heads in a north easterly direction from there. 
These islands are part of Queensland. That is another point that is not clearly understood. They are part of metropolitan Queensland. They are not island territories administered by Queensland. They are just as much a part of Queensland and Australia as, say, Kangaroo Island is part of South Australia, Rottnest Island is part of Western Australia, or King Island is part of Tasmania. Two suggestions have been made: Firstly, to draw the boundary south of the tenth parallel. That would take in more than half the Torres Strait Islands and their people and would take in quite a considerable part of this one steamer passage through these straits. I think that the Government's suggestion is untenable. 
The second point involves the 3 islands closest to the New Guinea mainland. They are not one mile away but at least 5 miles away. The islands are Boigu Island, with 272 people, Dauan Island with 93 people and Saibai Island with 211 people, a total of 576 good Australians. Many of their menfolk are away working in other parts of Australia. As I said before, these people are a unique race. They have their own language and have been in these islands for generations. The islands have been part of Queensland for about 100 years. These people are loyal Queenslanders and Australians. I wish to quote from the' News-Weekly' of 17th January 1973: 
The Whitlam government's determination to give' away the Torres Strait islands and their native population to an independent New Guinea is causing deep resentment in the islands. The islands  belong  to Queensland, and their inhabitants are Australian aboriginal citizens. It is being said' bluntly that the Labor government wants to get rid of them becausethey are black. Certainly, there would be no question of handing, the islands over to New Guinea if they were inhabited by white people. 
The article goes on to quote several other authorities. It also states: 
The Labor MP for Leichhardt, William Fulton, had told islanders at pre-election meetings the borders would not be changed. 
It contains the statement: 
It would be tragic for the Torres Strait .people if the Federal government drew a line across the middle of the Strait. ... It would disturb the - whole unity of the people based on. a common fellowship and a pride in being Australian.' 
I also wish to quote the remarks of the Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane,  Dr Felix  Arnott, who promised to take a very strong stand on the issue. He said: 
I will do my level best to let it be known ' how strongly I feel. I cannot see why any change at all is necessary.' 
Also. I should like to quote the remarks of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in another place. He is the present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. This is a letter which  Mr Bryant  wrote on 28th July 1972. It is addressed to the Torres Strait islanders, some individually. This letter is addressed to 'Dear Friend'. It reads:  1 am writing to you because one of my constituents has asked me to support the transfer of your island to Papua New Guinea. 
I do not believe that Papua New Guinea has any right to your land but I wouldlike to hear from you about it. 
If, as I expect, you wish to remain part of Queensland and Australia, I will give you all my support as will the FCAATSI of which I am Senior Vicepresident. 
I am writing to you now because when I received the letter setting out the claim to your wishes  1  realised that some people in Papua New Guinea have started a campaign which may be difficult to stop unless the people of the islands speak now with the help of their friends on the Australian mainland. 
Yours sincerely, 
GORDON M. BRYANT 
M.H.R. for Wills 
The date of the letter is 28th July 1972. I hope that when a decision is made both  Mr Bryant  and  Mr Fulton  will stand up and be counted. The Papuan mainlanders adjacent to this area were never seafaring people. They did not fish in the oceans. They fished in the estuaries and rivers. They built their villages out on the seafront only after the coming of Europeans and the stopping of headhunting by the Torres Strait islanders. On the other hand, the Torres Strait islanders were a seafaring people. They are superb navigators in the reefs and they obtain most of their food from the sea. They obtain turtles, dugongs and many other forms of fish. Each family has its own land rights on the islands where they have their gardens. If a family trespasses on another family's garden, there is a row. 
This is what I am saying. They have their land rights and the Government wants to take them away. I want to talk about the Australian Broadcasting Commission television programme called 'This Day Tonight'. The programme of 13th February dealt with Torres Strait islands and the Papuan mainland. With all their movements around the islands, the film crew could not find one person who wanted to give those islands to Papua New Guinea. Photographs were taken and interviews held on the Papuan mainland at one fishing village called Buzi which is about 5 or 6 miles from these islands. An elder there said that he wanted his people transferred to Queensland. He did not want the islands. This has been the position throughout the area and it is the present position. All of the Torres Strait islanders have stores run by the Island Industries Board. Really, they are Queensland Government stores. The islanders have democratically elected councils. They are like our local authorities and they are extremely well run. I should like to quote also from an article in the November 1972-January 1973 issue of Australia's Neighbours' entitled 'The Boundary Between Australia and Papua New Guinea'. It was written by  Mr J.  R. V. Prescott, Reader in Geography at the University of Melbourne, and was as follows:   . . the present boundary is a' perfectly proper boundary in the terms of the existing Convention, unless some historic title or other special circumstances can be demonstrated by the Government of Papua New Guinea and accepted by Australia. First, there do not seem to be any recent cases where a State has voluntarily ceded occupied territory which has been held for nearly a century, without some compensating territorial gain. 
 Mr J.  R. V. Prescott, Reader in Geography at the University of Melbourne. About a fortnight ago I visited the Torres Strait area and talked to the chairmen of the islands. There are 3 chairmen in the different groups of islands, all very able men who speak for their people. They are  Mr Tanu  Nona,  Mr Getano  Lui and  Mr George  Mye. They are adamant that they will not leave their islands. They refuse to be resettled and they say they will secede if they are given to Papua. In fact, they say they will fight if they are given away or if any attempt is made to remove them forcibly. Their tradition, culture and way of life is bound up with their islands. The Brisbane 'Courier Mail' today features an article under the headline Islanders' fear of end to their race*. The article begins with this statement: 
If we're going to be given away to Papua New Guinea, our race will die out,'  Mr Getano  Lui said in Brisbane yesterday. 
We want to remain on the Torres Strait Islands and retain them for our children and our children's children,' he said. 
He goes on in that vein. What has happened in the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly on this question?  Mr Ebia  Oliwale, the member for the South Fly open electorate, is the only member of that House who over the years, it seems, has really been interested in changing the boundary. He tried in 1969 to get the House of Assembly interested in this question. But what did he get? He did not get any support.  His  resolution was lost on the voices. I should add that  Mr Somare  was a member of the House of Assembly at that time but apparently he did not say anything in support of  Mr Oliwale's  resolution, whatever his views on the subject may be today.  Mr Burns,  a member of the Queensland Parliament and, I think, Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party, made a statement on the subject which shows how little some people know of our north. He said that  Mr Jo  Bjelke-Petersen had returned to Queensland from the Torres Strait Islands when in fact  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  had never been out of Queensland. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Is it the intention of the PostmasterGeneral's Department to continue with the installation of small automatic exchanges in the areas away from the large centres of population and so provide a continuous telephone service for all Australian telephone users? Is it the intention of the Postmaster-General's Department also to continue to provide the first 15 miles of construction free of charge in rural areas? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Has the inquiry into the PostmasterGeneral's Department commenced yet? Does the Postmaster-General intend to continue making statements about his Department pending a report from the inquiry? Does the Postmaster-General believe that all new telephone services should be an economic proposition, especially in the rural areas? 
Is it true that the Minister for the Media has asked all Australian television stations to reduce their purchases of overseas programs? If this is the case, how will this time be made up to the Australian viewing public? 
 I ask a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. In view of the Postmaster-General's statement that some telephone exchanges in rural areas are not economic as far as his Department is concerned, does he apply this principle also to certain rural mail services? We are told that it costs approximately $1 to deliver a letter to Birdsville. Does he consider this mail service uneconomic? Will the PostmasterGeneral also take into account the fact that the telephone section of his Department makes a substantial profit while the mail section loses nearly the same amount? Will the Minister make allowances for this substantial telephone surplus in deciding whether rural telephone exchanges are economic? 
Did the Minister for Customs and Excise study the report of the all-party committee of the House of Representatives on kangaroos before imposing the export ban on kangaroo products? Will he obtain reports from areas of inland Australia where the pastoral industry is likely to be affected adversely by the breeding up of great hordes of kangaroos if there is no incentive to control their numbers? As the House of Representatives commitee on wildlife, which included some prominent conservationists, found that the kangaroo was not in danger of extinction and the committee actually advocated the investigation of commercial kangaroo farming, will the. Minister reconsider the export ban? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs criticised the Queensland Government for not allowing any person to visit Palm Island without a permit, as is reported in the Press today? Does the Minister not realise that the democratically elected Palm Island Aboriginal Council, not the Queensland Government, issues permits to visit Palm Island? As this Aboriginal Council does not want its island overrun by large numbers of visitors, the permit system is rigidly enforced. Will the Minister correct his misstatement as soon as possible? 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State in his capacity as the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that revaluation of the Australian dollar is forcing Comalco Ltd, the large aluminium producer, to have a new look at plans for 2 major Queensland projects which would cost more than $400m? The projects are the proposed aluminium smelter at Gladstone and the planned $328m alumina refinery to be built by an international consortium at Weipa. As Australia is a developing country and can ill afford to lose these large investments, will the Government have another look at the parity of the Australian dollar with a view to restoring it to that which existed at December last and so encourage this large type of investment which we cannot undertake ourselves? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for the Media, refers to reports that a 'Four Corners' team was not allowed to make a documentary film in Russia after the team arrived in Moscow. Did the 'Four Corners' team have any agreement with or permission from the Russian authorities before it left Australia? If this is the case, can the Minister say where the misunderstanding occurred which will prevent the Australian public viewing conditions as they exist in Russia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Does the Postmaster-General's Department intend to downgrade 300 official post offices to non-official status? fs this to be done with the agreement of the Postal Workers Union? Has the Postmasters Association been consulted on the matter? What is to be done to preserve the career opportunities of the large number of postal officials who will become redundant as a result of this action? 
I direct my question to  Senator Wriedt  as the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade, the Minister for Northern Development and the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Australian Government's action in revaluing our currency has placed in jeopardy plans by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd to re-open its uranium mine in north western Queensland? As this mine would be a big overseas income earner for Australia, and as a town capable of housing in excess of 1,000 people has been in mothballs for about 10 years, will the Government see whether any assistance can be provided for the mining company to re-open its mine and so provide jobs for a considerable number of people? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Can the Minister inform the Senate when the plan to close all Australian post offices on Saturday mornings will be implemented? Will the Minister give an assurance to the Australian people that ample notice of Saturday morning closure will be given to those people who transact post office business on that day so that suitable alternative arrangements may be made? 
I support the disallowance of these rules, for several reasons. I have been informed that they have been drawn hastily and that they will not achieve what they set out to achieve. They have many weak points. Some of those weaknesses have been discussed already and have been pointed out in the Senate. One is the matter relating to discretion statements. I believe and I have been told that the whole position has been left up in the air. Another weakness is the matter associated with custody problems. We have been told, since the debate commenced, that an amendment had been made to a rule which has been repealed. We were told by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  (hat the rules were not drawn up by the Parliamentary Counsel. The AttorneyGeneral is unwilling to state the name of the legal gentlemen who took part in drawing up these rules, but he has said that several lawyers are involved. He is not willing to say what fee was paid, if any, to these people. 1 make it quite clear to the Senate that I am very much in favour of divorce law reform - easier, cheaper and simpler divorce. This attitude is also the attitude of the Australian Country Party. We are definitely not against divorce law reform, but we believe that it will not be achieved by these rules. The Governor-General's Speech, which was delivered a month ago at the opening of Parliament, referred to the Government's intention to introduce a Bill to reform the Matrimonial Causes Act. A month has gone by. I do not know how much progress has been made on this Bill. We suggest that when these rules are disallowed the Attorney-General should, without any undue delay, introduce a comprehensive, up-to-date and modern divorce law reform Bill which can be. debated in its entirety in the Parliament. The reform should not be by way of a hotchpotch of rules which are only a patchwork, we are told, at best. That is what the Senate is debating. 
The rules came into effect on 1st February this year. I have been informed that the number of divorce petitions has fallen considerably because of uncertainty and because many lawyers will not take cases in the present set-up. Almost 2 months have elapsed under those conditions. When the rules are disallowed there will be even more uncertainty There will be that uncertainty until the Government is prepared to introduce a comprehensive Bill which will cover the whole situation and which can be debated in the Senate so that all the minor troubles and objections can be ironed out. The Government should introduce something substantive that will stand up in the law courts and that will be satisfactory to all the people whom  Senator Brown  mentioned as waiting to take court action. I support the repeal of the rules but I also support the suggestion for reform of a very considerable area of the divorce law. I ask the Senate to disallow these rules and I appeal for the early introduction of a comprehensive Bill to cover the whole subject. 
I  desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports today that Australia's second-largest shipyard, namely Evans Deakin Industries Ltd in Brisbane, is to close down shortly? As that would mean the loss of jobs for nearly 2,000 Australians, will the Government take action to try to obtain further work for this shipyard and so maintain an industry that is vital to Australia's future as so much of our trade goes by sea? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration. As the Minister for Immigration is reported to have stated during the week-end that he had under consideration the deportation of about 50 people, will the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration inform the Senate of the nationality of these people and the reasons for considering their deportation? 
I ask of the Minister representing the Treasurer a question which follows upon the one asked by  Senator Cotton.  It relates to the action which was taken today to call up $100m of trading bank funds which are to be placed in . statutory, reserve deposits. Has any instruction been given to the trading banks as to how they are to apply this credit squeeze? Will the Minister ensure that the rural sector does not suffer unduly in view of the. fact that this part of Australia's economy is just emerging from - a period of drought and low prices? '  '  
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In view of the announcement that exporting secondary industries are to receive compensation for any loss they may have suffered through revaluation of the Australian dollar, will the Treasurer give further consideration to providing similar compensation for exporting primary industries? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether the seals which he caused to be placed on safes and strong rooms in the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's headquarters in Melbourne have been removed and the police guard taken away? If the seals have been removed, when was this done and by whom? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry table for the information of the Senate the report to the Government by the Australian Meat Board on a possible pr'-.e control scheme for meat? 
I, too, wish to support the motion moved by the Leader of the Government , in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  I knew, the late  Sir Arthur  Fadden fairly well. Although I was never in Parliament with him, I was closely associated with him in our political organisation in Queensland. I found him a good and loyal friend at all times. He was the son of a police sergeant in Walkerston, a little town near Mackay. It has been said that his parents could not afford to give him a secondary education, yet through his own efforts he rose to be the man in charge of the finances of the nation. He had a tremendous fund of stories and anecdotes and could keep people entertained for a long while. He was a very goodhumoured man. I believe that , the large crowd at his funeral was testimony , to the high respect in which he was held. I, too, extend my sympathy to Lady Fadden and the family. 
I desire to ask a question of the Special Minister of State in his capacity as Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask: Was there any discussion during the visit to Australia of the Yugoslav Prime Minister of the rights of holders of Australian passports, particularly Australian citizens born in Yugoslavia who are visiting Yugoslavia? 
I ask the Leader of the Government, as the Minister representing the Prime Minister, a question without notice. Does the Commonwealth Government intend to deny the Australian State Governments all right of access to the Privy Council? Does the Commonwealth Government propose to interfere in any way with the existing relations between the Australian States and the Sovereign and also the existing relations between the Australian States and the United Kingdom Government and the Parliament at Westminster? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the reported oppo sition of the Premiers of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania to the Federal Government's proposed legislation to control the seabed from low water mark, does the Government propose to proceed with the legislation this session, or will it have a further conference on the matter with all the States? 
 I ask the Special Minister of State: As the Government has ceased to recognise the Government of Taiwan, does it now regard Taiwan as an independent nation or as a territory of some nation? ls Australia still trading with Taiwan? Are passports and visas available for Australians to travel to Taiwan? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As it has been announced that a large number of Bills are to be introduced before the House of Representatives rises, in accordance with past practice will the Government arrange for some of these Bills to remain on the notice paper until August so that there will be some business to go on with pending the start of the Budget debate? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Treasurer been drawn to a report that the United States balance of payments deficit was $10,000m for the first quarter of the year and to the report that the price of gold has risen to over $100 an ounce? In view of the new and sustained pressure on the United States dollar and of the likelihood of a further devaluation of that currency, will the Government keep a close watch on the position to see that the income from Australia's trade with the United States of America will not be unduly affected, even if this means a devaluation of the Australian dollar? 
I ask a question of the Special Minister of State who is Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can the Minister advise the Senate of the position of  Mr Kerry  Milte, barrister-at-law, as special adviser to the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  at, we are told, a daily retainer of $125? Has  Mr Milte  taken a prominent part in the investigations into Croatian activities in Australia? Has he been appointed to investigate the operations of the Northern Territory Police Force? What qualifications has he for this appointment? 
I desire to make a short contribution to this debate in opposing this Bill. We are debating a Bill which provides for the redistribution of all the electorates in Australia. It is a short Bill but it is a very important Bill, lt seeks to make 2 principal alterations in the instructions which are to be given to the distribution Commissioners who are to be appointed. It is seeking, firstly, that the 20 per cent tolerance above or below the quota be reduced to 10 per cent. I think it has already been pointed out that the 20 per cent tolerance has been in the Commonwealth Electoral Act since just after federation. It has never been found necessary by any previous government - Labor governments or governments from our side of politics - to change the tolerance. The change was apparently suggested just recently when the present Government decided that it does not want to give such a big tolerence because it thinks that the areas outside the metropolitan areas have too few voters. 
I believe that it is a physical impossibility to keep within a 10 per cent tolerance. Populations in some electorates change very quickly. It is all right to say that when the number of voters in electorates get above or below the tolerance we should have another redistribution. We do not want redistributions every year or two. We have the spectacle now of people not knowing what electorate they are in, not knowing who is their Federal member, not knowing who to approach for help and advice. Only recently we gave the vote to the 18, 19 and 20-year-olds in this country. According to the number of these new electors in each electorate, the enrolments are pretty slow and this could upset the redistribution to some extent and a sudden spate of applications for enrolment just before the election could change the quotas very much. As I have said, the 20 per cent tolerance allows the distribution commissioners a wider latitude. It allows for most electorates to keep within this tolerance for a much longer period and so avoid the necessity for continual redistributions. 
The Bill proposes to remove certain instructions to the commissioners which have been in existence for some years. The instructions which it is proposed to remove are, I believe, very fair and cover the whole of Australia and make it fairly easy to hold a redistribution. They are, the disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of the division and the area of the division. It is proposed to substitute another series of instructions for the commissioners, the first of which is: 
community of interests within the Division, including' economic, social and regional interests. 
Let us consider some of the electorates.I mention, firstly, Kalgoorlie, the largest in Australia. It includes the city of Kalgoorlie, the Ord River and the iron ore mines. How in the name of goodness can the commissioners consider this as a community of interests within the division including economic, social and regional interests? It just happens that it is a big part of the State of Western Australia and has to be included in one electorate and cannot, therefore, fall within this instruction to the commissioners. 
Maybe he does,  Mr Minister.  We hear from many of his electors in different parts of the huge electorate of Kalgoorlie: 'We never see our member. Where do we get in touch with him? He has not the time to travel around the electorate to meet us to ask us about our problems'. He might be all right but many electors of the Kalgoorlie electorate are not happy about it. Next, let us consider the electorate of Darling which takes in the city of Broken Hill, much of the area round the Darling River, some of the richest pastoral districts in New South Wales, and goes into the mixed farming areas. I have been told that at one time onehalf the wealth of New South Wales came from this electorate.I do not know whether that is the case now. Another instruction to the commissioners is that they are to take into account the 'means of communication and travel within the division'. In the electorate of Darling, if one wants to get to Bourke from Broken Hill it is necessary to go to Sydney and then go back unless one has a car. To go from Bourke to the southern part of the electorate 'around Wentworth one has to go via Sydney and Melbourne. The pre vious member was always complaining about this setup of his travelling arrangements. It was not a good set-up for travelling. Yet the commissioners are supposed to draw up electorates by taking this instruction into account. 
The electorate of Kennedy in Queensland, under the Bill with the 10 per cent tolerance, will have 5,000 or 6,000 more electors added to it. It already takes in a very large part of Queensland from the mining area of Mt Isa down to the mixed farming areas near the coast within about 200 miles or a little more of Brisbane. This must be added to under this new set-up. Is it any wonder that many people in this area are complaining about the proposed new arrangements and are opposing them? 
This is part of the Government's electoral legislative program and apparently the legislation will be brought in piecemeal. We believe that the Bills could have been brought in together and that we could have debated the whole concept of the Government's electoral legislative program instead of dealing with a Bill now, another in a month's time and another or perhaps a couple more in the next session. We have already passed the Bill to provide the vote for 18-year-olds and, as I have said, those young people are apparently not enrolling as quickly as many had expected they would. Apparently some of them are not so interested in enrolling. However, as election time nears that position will probably change. Now we have this Bill and we are told that several other Bills are to follow. One of them, we are told - we do not know how many of them will come to pass - is to provide Senate representation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory. We are told too that the Australian Capital Territory will be able to elect 2 members to the House of Representatives instead of one, and we are told by the grapevine- 
We are told,  Mr Minister,  that apart from providing for 2 senators the Bill will provide also that the Australian Capital Territory will be entitled to 2 members of the House of Representatives. 
The Premier of Queensland is quite able to look after himself. He has done a very good job and he is doing a very good job. We are told that there will be a number of amendments to another important Bill which is to be introduced in the Budget session. Why could not many of these things be done at the same time? The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who was in charge of the Bill in the other place made the statement that he did not want cows, haystacks and trees to be taken into consideration. Apparently the Minister does not want to admit that representation of the sparsely populated areas is much more difficult. When one is a member of the Senate and is doing his job, he learns of the problems of the members who represent these areas as he goes around them trying to help the electors or when he is working in electorates which cover big areas that have a sparse population. Compare the situation in those electorates with the situation in city electorates, some  of  which have been reported as covering only a handful of square miles and around which the member can drive before breakfast. I have said that in the more sparsely populated areas the constituents have the greatest difficulty in contacting their member and having a personal interview with him. True, they can write to him but that is not the same. Many electors like to meet their member, have  a  talk to him and put their problems  to  him. Government senators have staled here last night and today that there have been  no  complaints from their members for the electorates of Kalgoorlie, Leichhardt and Grey,  to  mention but three. 
 I said that last night Government senators said that their members for the 3 electorates that I have mentioned support the Bill, and have said they have had no complaints from their electorates. I am saying that the electors have complained to us and to other honourable senators that they cannot find their members, they cannot see them and they cannot get in touch with them. The electorates are too big. 
I shall mention the position in the United States of America which has been referred to several times. Until recently the State legislatures drew up the boundaries for the congressional seats. This arrangement has apparently worked pretty well. Congress was told that it could have so many seats in such and such a State and the electorates were drawn up. It has not been left to the Federal legislature to redistribute in the United States. I now come to the Mother of Parliaments in the United Kingdom. The electorate of Kelvingrove has 19,019 voters as compared to the electorate of Antrim (South) which has 144,734 voters. 
Just recently we have heard a lot about one vote one value. I am not saying that we condone this; I am not saying that it is right. But our position is not too bad when compared with the position in some of these other countries. I am pointing out what happens in other countries. I am pointing this out to answer the one vote one value argument. In the electorate of Kelvingrove in the United Kingdom it took 6,106 votes to elect a Labor man. Yet in the electorate of Billericay in Essex it took 47,700 votes to elect a Conservative member. Is that one vote one value? I say that it is not. 
 I gave the number in the electorate, originally. This situation has been in operation for a long time in the Mother of Parliaments in the United Kingdom. They do not have redistributions too often. Labor governments and Conservative governments have been in office for a good while, and they have not seen fit to change the position. They thought that it was suitable for the. Mother of Parliaments, the home of democracy. It is interesting to note that in Britain an Act was passed to reduce the frequency of redistribution to between 10 and 15 years. Here we want to make the period much shorter than that. 
The United Kingdom found these arrangements very suitable and I see no reason why we in Australia should not do the same thing and have longer periods between redistributions with a bigger margin of tolerance. There is nothing to stop the present Government from having a redistribution under the present Act if it wants to, except in Western Australia. We agree that it is necessary to have a redistribution in Western Australia. I suggest that if the Government wants to get on with the redistribution it could so so. This is a Bill to diminish the representation of areas outside the big cities and to increase the representation of the big cities. Today almost half Australia's population is in Sydney, Melbourne and the satellite cities. If this Bill is carried and put into effect Australia, in the numbers game, will be. dominated by Sydney and Melbourne. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting of the Senate was suspended I was just concluding my address on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2). I had said that almost half of Australia's population is now located in Sydney and Melbourne and satellite cities, and that if this Bill were carried and its provisions put into effect Australia, under this numbers game, would be dominated by Sydney and Melbourne. The areas which earn most of Australia's export income would have even less say in the government of the country. Their voice in Canberra would be much weaker. 1 refer now to balanced development. If this Bill were carried and its provisions put into effect, I just wonder whether we would only be paying lip service to. balanced development. I think the whole scheme is part of ari overall plan to develop Sydney and Melbourne at the expense of the rest of Australia. I believe that the Bill is part of a master plan to enable the Government to centralise and socialise everything in Australia, to destroy our federal system of strong States united in a federation, and to centralise all power in Canberra. I believe that the Australian electoral system compares more than favourably with those used in most other democratic countries. We have a system of compulsory voting. We also have a preferential system of voting which enables the person who votes to have a second or a third choice which is taken into consideration if his man does not get enough primary votes. I believe that except in Western Australia, redistribution is not justifiable at present. I believe that when it becomes necessary for a redistribution to take place the existing tolerance of 20 per cent should remain unaltered for the reasons I have already stated. I believe, too, that the Australian electorates are fairly drawn at present, otherwise the Australian Labor Party could not have won its way to the Treasury bench on 2nd December last. The more sparsely settled areas should have fewer electors in each electorate than the closely settled areas, as at present is the case. I ask the Senate to reject the Bill. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that a Royal Australian Navy ship has been ordered to the French bomb testing area in the South Pacific. Is it a fact that this ship is at present in dock and is likely to be for some time? Will the crew of this ship be given any special consideration because of the risk of radiation? Will the crew be asked to volunteer for this assignment? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the security arrangements made for the visit to Australia by the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia,  Mr Bijedic. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Prime Minister has supplied the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am informed that the cost of the security arrangements provided during the recent visit by  Mr Bijedic  is estimated at approximately $90,000. 
Has the attention of the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs been drawn to reports that Trans- Australia Airlines has been carrying Portuguese troops from Darwin to Timor on civil aircraft? Could the Minister inform the Senate whether this statement is correct? As the matter could affect our relations with Indonesia, will the Minister have the matter examined with a view to asking the Portuguese authorities to use military aircraft for the purpose of carrying troops to Timor?  
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that some insurance companies are refusing to insure certain popular makes of new motor cars in the Australian Capital Territory? I point out that this applies also to some of the States. Does the Government condone this discrimination? Will the Government have a full investigation made to see whether certain makes of cars are more accident prone than others and, if that is the case, endeavour to find the cause? Will the Government treat this matter as urgent in view of the mounting road toll? 
1 want to speak to this Bill for a couple of reasons but I shall be brief. Firstly, I want to draw the Senate's attention to the fact that the Bill is a ratification of 3 different agreements which were made in 1971, 1972 and 1973. Of course, the previous 2 agreements were made during the term of the government of which my Party was a partner and the present Government is only carrying on the survey which has been spelled out and drawn on the sea bed in an imaginary form and which extends our continental shelf a considerable distance from the north-west coast of Western Australia to take in the Ashmore and Cartier reefs where we believed at one stage there was oil - I do not know whether any oil has been found in that area - and to lay out a very definite boundary along the sea bed. There is apparently agreement between Indonesia and Australia on this proposal and also between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. 
The 1973 agreement, however, was made between the Australian Government and  Mr Michael  Somare, the Chief Minister of the Territory of Papua New Guinea, lt is a new agreement and, unfortunately, honourable senators have not been provided with maps of the proposed areas. The Bill contains a very complicated description of the bearings, lines and other things. However, before I agree to the demarcation line between Australia - principally Queensland - and the Territory of Papua New Guinea I should like to see those maps. I understand that the Minister in charge of the Bill is endeavouring to secure copies of the maps. I think it is a bit unfair to us on this side of the House to be asked to agree before we see the actual line of demarcation. I tried to check it on an atlas in the Library but was not able to do so in the time available. I appeal to the Minister to try to get that map. Before I could go along with any suggestion of a demarcation line on the seabed between Queensland and Papua New Guinea I would want to be assured that all the Torres Strait islands are included in the Australian section. This is not quite clear from the description that we can read and trace out on an atlas. Admittedly, 3 of the islands are very close to Papua, as has been pointed out many times. They are Saibai Island, Dauan Island and Boigu Island. 
In view of the other things that are looming, the fact that there is another Bill on this subject presently before the Senate and a Bill dealing with the control of the seabed and the continental shelf, one being more or less tied up with the other, I would not like to think that what we agree on in this Bill will prejudice our idea of preserving the rights of Torres Strait islanders in regard to their territory, fishing and the land adjacent around the coast. Perhaps we could have an assurance from the Minister that if the Senate were to adjourn now we could have these maps to look at after lunch. 
I would like it to be adjourned now and to continue my remarks later. 
I ask for leave to continue my remarks. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.52 to 2.15 p.m. 
When I was speaking ' prior to the suspension of the sitting I mentioned, that the only map available to honourable senators was one of the proposed continental shelf boundary between Australia and the Indonesian territory. Apparently no maps were printed in respect of the new agreement which was signed by  Mr Somare  in 1973. I asked the Minister whether we could adjourn the debate over the luncheon suspension so that maps might be made available to honourable senators. The Minister informs me now that no maps are available. I have been assured by the Minister and a member of his staff that the boundary has not been changed. 
I would like to make it clear that no maps are available of the boundary between Australia and the Territory of Papua New Guinea. Maps are available of the boundary between Australia and Indonesia. 
I think those maps are available. In view of the Minister's assurance that there has been no change whatever in the continental shelf seabed boundary between Australia and the Territory of Papua New Guinea - I ask him to confirm that when he replies at the close of this debate - I am happy to go along with the Bill on the basis of his assurance that all the Torres Strait Islands and their, surrounding, areas will remain as part of Australia under the agreement that is now being ratified between Australia and  Mr Somare,  on behalf of the Territory of Papua New. Guinea, and the Indonesian authorities. I hope that the delineation of our agreed boundaries on the seabed, will be of lasting benefit to Australia, to our neighbour Indonesia and to the future independent country of Papua New Guinea.I, hope that we can now go ahead with prospecting for and trying to win any riches ; and resources that that seabed may contain. I hope that this will be of lasting benefit to the 2 existing nations and to the future independent country of Papua New Guinea. I thank the Minister for his help. I hope to receive his assurance, when he replies at the close of this debate, that there has been no change in the boundary and that no Torres Strait islands are being given away. 
Has the attention of the Attorney-General and Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to reports that  Mr Milte,  adviser to his Department, is to be appointed to head an" Australian federal bureau of investigation at a very large salary? Can the Minister inform the- Senate whether these reports are true? &lt;.. 
As a result of that amendment being carried there are several consequential amendments to be moved. I am informed that the amendment to clause 1 must be moved separately. After I have done that I propose to seek the permission of the Committee to move the others as one amendment. 1 move: 
In clause 1, sub-clause (9), omit 'Cities Commission Act 1972-1973', substitute 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Act 1972-1973'. 
I think I stated during my speech at the second reading stage 'the main reason why I felt that the title of the Bill should be altered. Without further ado I move: 
Leave out sub-clause (1), insert the following subclause: 
This Act may be cited as the Cities and Regional Development Commission Act 1973.'. 
Despite what the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  has just said I believe it is essential that the whole concept of regions as well as cities should be contained in the Bill. I think the subject has been pretty well covered during the course of the debate on the second reading. I leave the matter at that. 
I ask a question of the Special Minister of State in his capacity as the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs. Has the Minister seen reports that a  Mr Steven  Colig, an Australian citizen of Yarralumla in the Australian Capital Territory, was arrested by Yugoslav authorities about 8 months ago, within 3 weeks of entering Yugoslavia on a holiday?  Mr Colig  is reported to have been sentenced to 12 years gaol by a military court in Sarajevo. Has the Australian Government made any inquiries into this matter? 
 I wish to speak briefly to the amendment, which seeks to postpone consideration of this Bill until the Budget session in August. It seems that part of the Bill is being debated now. Some of the remarks made by  Senator James  McClelland have prompted me to enter the debate. Unfortunately, he is not in the chamber now. He had some peculiar ideas about the postponement of consideration of this Bill. He said that such action could affect various party endorsements. I do not know what he meant by that. He gave an unusual interpretation of the result of the Victorian election. But he did not consider the fact that the Premier of Victoria now has such a definite mandate from the people that he is to join other Premiers in London to assert State rights in this matter. 
None of the State Premiers wants to be ridden over roughshod. by the Government in this matter. I believe that  Senator James  McClelland was very much out of touch with the Australian people in all the things he said. I do not know how that has come about. He may have become lost in the canyons of Sydney. He obviously has not been to Hobart recently to hear the statements of the Labor Premier of that State. He obviously has not been to Adelaide to hear the views of the Labor Premier of that State. He obviously has not been to Perth to hear the views of the Labor Premier of that State. 
All the State Premiers are opposed to this legislation. They want to be consulted. They do not want to see arbitrary, unilateral action taken to deprive them of a lot of their powers. I do not think the Federal Government would be game to seek approval of its proposal by putting to the Australian people by way of referendum the provisions contained in this Bill. I believe that a referendum on this issue would be defeated overwhelmingly. All 6 State Premiers are opposed to the legislation. What happened when the legislation was introduced in the House of Representatives? Incidentally, the legislation has never been introduced into the Senate before. The suggestion that it might have been debated in the Senate before is not true. 
I think certain remarks could be interpreted that way. If a referendum were held on this matter it would be defeated overwhelmingly. State rights are involved in this matter. The States have some rights in our federation. We operate under a federal system, not a centralist one. All that the States ask is to be consulted on this matter. The States agreed on the levies and controls introduced with respect to off-shore oil. No doubt some measure of agreement on this matter could be reached if the conference was carried further. One of the reasons why the Bill was not proceeded with previously was that all the States - not just one of them - objected at that time. This is a States House. In the final analysis, we represent the States. We are elected by the States as a whole. I, as a Queensland senator, definitely could not go along with this Bill in its present form without the agreement of my State. A lot of things come into this question. Only the matter of mineral rights has been mentioned. But there are fishing rights and other matters like that. 
In my State conditions are considerably different because after many years of negotiation the maritime boundaries of Queensland were set out in a letters patent issued by the Imperial Government to the Governor of Queensland as recently as 1925. It defines the maritime boundaries of Queensland as being the outer edge of the Great Barrier Reef. All islands and waters inside that line are part of the State of Queensland. There is no question about that. I believe that to try to carve up different boundaries or some sort of different control would result in chaos. About 95 per cent of the Barrier Reef is under water at high tide. In those circumstances, under this legislation the control of 95 per cent of the 
Barrier Reef would pass to the Commonwealth. I do not think that any Queenslander would willingly submit to losing control of the Barrier Reef. 
I do not think that any thinking Queenslander would. I thank  Senator Webster  for that interjection. I, as a Queensland senator, could not support any proposal that gave away control of the Barrier Reef, without the agreement of the Queensland Government. There are other matters to consider. There is the matter of the historic waters around the Australian coast. They belong first, last and absolutely to the States. I shall refer to some of them. Would this Bill cover the whole of Moreton Bay from the low water mark outwards? It is very doubtful whether it would. Would it cover Port Phillip Bay in the State of Victoria or the South Australian gulfs which are State waters by international agreement. The States did not just unilaterally take over these waters; they obtained them by international agreement which is recognised by all the maritime nations. 
I suggest that debate on this Bill should be postponed. The State Premiers are in London consulting with the Imperial authorities on State rights. They do not want to be completely overridden and completely controlled by a centralist system in Canberra. No thinking Australian wants that to happen. For that reason I support the proposal to postpone consideration of this Bill until August when no doubt I will have a lot more to say on it. 
I am not opposing the Bill, but I wish to point out some of the possible disadvantages to areas which might be considering this concept of regional development. I suggest that before representatives of interested areas agree to a proposal for development they should look closely at the proposition put up by the Cities Commission to be appointed under the Bill by the Federal Government. Firstly, the Bill provides only for an advisory body. The Bill which was introduced by the previous Government was the same in principle to that extent. It provided for a body to advise the Minister. This Bill carries on that principle although one of the main differences from the previous Bill, I think, is the change of name from the National Urban and Regional Development Authority to the Cities Commission. We may be assured that any areas which come under the direction of the Cities Commission or the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  or a partnership between the Commonwealth and the States will require a commission to run those areas. While nothing as yet has been written into the concept for the Albury-Wodonga area I believe that there must be some authority to control it. 
I do not think that any government could afford to pour large sums of money into such a concept and not appoint an authority to direct and run that concept. In the case of Canberra the National Capita] Development Commission has an overriding authority. It is not an elected body; it is an appointed body. The Snowy Mountains Authority had overriding powers during its operations and it too was not an elected body. There are bodies of a similar nature overseas. One that comes to mind is the Tennessee Valley Authority which apparently had overriding powers to construct works and to do all things necessary to carry out the concept of a regional development authority or a Cities Commission, as is the title of this Bill. 
I suggest that before any area decides that it wants to be brought under the concept of this Bill or of the Cities Commission or the idea of a developmental area or a city which is to be built mainly by Commonwealth Government funds, it should consider what it must surrender to achieve this aim. No government could afford to put large sums of money into a developmental city or a concept of this nature unless it has a pretty good control and authority over the circumstances surrounding the development of the area. There would have to be an authority, I believe, that would override the local authority. I do not think that a local authority could carry on such a concept unless there was a partnership between it and whatever developmental authority is provided to carry out the plans of the Government in such a case. I do not know how much the authority would override a State government's powers but I think that everybody would concede that for a big investment of this nature to develop an area wherever it might be in Australia - AlburyWodonga is the only one mentioned so far - there must be a very powerful authority which can take the steps necessary to achieve the development, to decide which industries will go where, which will be financed and what usage will be made of the lands surrounding the district. If a district wants such an arrangement and is agreeable to surrender its own authority, then I think that probably it will turn out to be a good thing. But the district must remember that changes will be made. It cannot have absolute freedom of choice in the development. 
I refer to the first consideration involved in this concept.  Mr Uren,  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, told a deputation from a Queensland organisation which I introduced to him and which wanted to come under this scheme that the first consideration before any Commonwealth money could be applied to such a development, was that the land to be developed had to revert to leasehold. Apparently there were a couple of reasons for that. One was that it was easier to control leasehold land than freehold land, another that it was easier to exercise price control on that type of land. 
Probably. The Minister also said that it was a precondition, a prerequisite, that the State Government concerned had to take action to convert the land from freehold to leasehold. If areas want that arrangement, if they know what they are doing and if they accept it with their eyes open, then that is all right. However, I want to warn them to look at all of these aspects before they contract for something of this nature. I know I will be told that the Act nowhere provides that land must revert to leasehold. I would like to quote what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development said in the House of Representatives on 15 May 1973 as reported at page 2085 of Hansard. The Minister said: 
We are concerned with the Albury-Wodonga area and it has been agreed by the Premiers of Victoria and New South Wales and the Prime Minister that the leasehold tenure system will be used for the development of that area except under exceptional circumstances. 
Referring to the land, the Minister went on to say: 
It will be acquired through the States because they have the power to acquire it. 
I think he was implying that the Commonwealth was bound under the Constitution to pay ruling rates for the land whereas under State laws, or in some States at any rate, since States have sovereign powers they can resume land for certain purposes without having to pay the full amount for it. I do not say that this will happen but it could conceivably come into it. The Minister went on: 
It will be acquired at the price ruling at 3 October 1972- 
This is for the Albury-Wodonga set-up - taking into account the trend of inflation during this period. I might explain to the Committee that at that time land in certain parts of this area was estimated to cost $125 an acre. Some speculators are now moving in and acquiring the land at $500 an acre. The Government will be spending taxpayers' money and therefore must apply sensible laws to protect that money. This area will be developed in the interests of the whole nation and it is on that basis that the Government stands firmly by this legislation. 
I must say that I am not clear on that. However, I shall quote what the Minister said earlier during this speech. At page 2084 of Hansard, he said: 
Therefore this Government decided to create growth areas and chose in the first place to go to Albury-Wodonga. On  25 January the Premiers . . . and the Prime Minister ... determined that an area with a radius of some 55 kilometres, or 35 miles in the old measurement, would have land prices stabilised as at 3 October 1972, and within that area a study would be made. This is an area of about 33,000 square miles. 
I take that figure as being right. The Minister went on: 
By June this year that area will be reduced to 11,000 square miles and by June of next year we will be able to determine the exact area that we need. Within that area we will develop a system of leasehold land tenure, the basis on which land was developed in Canberra prior to 1 January 1971. 
I presume that the States would do that. That is the area with which the Commonwealth proposes to deal. I heard  Mr Uren  say what I have just mentioned when he met a deputation that I introduced to him from a Queensland area. I have quoted from part of his speech, as reported in the House of Representatives Hansard, when this Bill was discussed in the other place. Any representatives who decide that they want their area to be a centre for regional development or to come within the provisions of the Cities Commission Bill will need to understand fully that land, somehow or other, must revert to leasehold title before any Commonwealth money at all will be forthcoming. 
I have mentioned that, from my reading of the provisions of this Bill, a commission would need to be established to administer any new development. Such a commission would need to decide priorities in development. Such development cannot be. haphazard; it must be planned if anything at all is to be achieved. For that reason, the use of land must be rigidly controlled. A person may own a piece of land on which he wishes to build a small factory. The commission may rule that that land is to be used to provide a recreational area. To achieve the purposes of this legislation, the commission, or whatever the controlling body may be called, must have overriding authority to be able to decide how it is to develop an area; it must be able to plan in the way in which Canberra has been planned. That is the position. 
If people wish to see an area developed under this legislation, I suggest that they should know fully what they are letting themselves in for and what may be required by way of money to initiate such development. I do not believe that a great deal of money, will be poured into such development by any authority without some form of repayment being required. I also believe that the Commonwealth authority will take over the role of any local authorities in an area to be developed, although the Bill contains no mention of such a provision, 1 believe that when new schemes of this type are introduced in any parts of Australia new legislation will need to be introduced to establish additional authorities to carry out development in those areas. I do not know what power the Commonwealth body will have over local government authorities or State government departments. Agreement must be reached between the Commonwealth and the States on this aspect. We realise that fact. But probably a Bill will need to be introduced in respect of each new development area to establish separate authorities to perform the task of development and administration.  1  mention now the manner in which this Bill is drawn and the use of the word 'cities' in its title. In the course of the Committee proceedings, I propose to move an amendment seeking to change the title of the Bill to the 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Bill  1973'.  My purpose is to reintroduce the concept of regions and not restrict this legislation to cities. I do not believe that we can establish a cities commission to carry out developments in various areas. Undeveloped areas will exist between development regions. Various outer city suburbs and the city areas themselves are coming together. I instance the example of Brisbane and Ipswich where development has made practically a continuous city of those  2  cities. Brisbane and the area of the Gold Coast down to Tweed Heads are developing into one ribbon of towns. The same situation is to be found in the northern areas where Nambour, Maroochydore and Noosa, together with the villages and towns from Brisbane to that area, provide almost a continuous city development. For that reason, the concept of regional areas must be retained. The legislation must not apply to cities alone. A city must be the basis of any development proposed under this legislation. 
I do not think that this Bill makes suitable provision for the balanced development of Australia. It seems to me that the first proposal is a future, long range plan for a ribbon of cities from Newcastle, through Sydney and Wollongong, on to Canberra and then extending to Albury-Wodonga and finishing at Melbourne. The development of such an area would add to the imbalance of the distribution of Australia's population. The population would build up in those areas. Except for population attracted by mining and a few other industries in various outlying areas of Australia, most regional towns and districts in Australia are losing population. 
I believe that some other areas of Australia will develop without any help from the Commonwealth. The proposed assistance will accelerate development in certain areas. But I draw attention to the development of Darwin which is progressing at such a rate that the need exists to acquire additional land to meet requirements there. Notice was given in the Senate today of the intention to move tomorrow for a debate on the acquisition of land in the Darwin area. Considerable interest has been aroused in Darwin in the acquisition of freehold land to meet the development needs of that city. I believe that action to acquire freehold land in Darwin to meet the development concept of that city is only jumping the gun. 
Some mining areas in Australia are developing rapidly. Populations in some centres are increasing. Mount Isa is an example of a city whose population is increasing quickly. This is the case also with respect to certain mining towns in Western Australia. New towns in Queensland are developing from the new coal export agreements. New towns connected with the export of iron ore are developing in Western Australia. But I do not think that this growth can be described as city development or even regional development. As a result of the concept of this legislation, areas with big populations will be assisted to attract larger populations and, apparently, areas with smaller populations will stagnate, with the exception of the mining areas that I mentioned. 
In his policy speech, the present Prime Minister,  (Mr Whitlam),  mentioned one other area which he thought would be a regional development centre, namely, Townsville. I ask honourable senators to bear in mind that the. word 'regional' was used with respect to that centre. The area around Townsville has to be developed as a region. The Burdekin is less than  50  miles from Townsville. Charters Towers is  80  miles from Townsville. The whole region was to be developed. This is another reason why 'regional' should appear in the title of this legislation. Since the House of Representatives election, circumstances have changed with respect to Townsville and the Government seems to have gone cold on its plans to develop that region. It seems to have forgotten about Townsville. I do not know the reason, but I could probably guess. 
I wish to mention a couple of other areas. I mentioned earlier the deputation which I took to meet  Mr Uren.  It was concerned with the regional area between Rockhampton and Gladstone, including possibly Mount Morgan and Biloela. Those 4 centres roughly form a circle in which each is little more than 50 miles from the centrepoint. I have mentioned a few towns which come within the concept of this legislation. There are a number of such areas in different parts of Australia. A few are to be found in the central part of New South Wales. Other areas worthy of mention are to be found in Victoria, South Australia and some areas of Western Australia. We think that they could be developed under this scheme. 
I emphasise that people in these areas must know what they are letting themselves in for. They must have, some idea of the possible cost of development of this type and of the loss of freedom of choice they would suffer. They would lose freehold land title and other rights. Another matter which is not mentioned specifically in the Bill but which is stated most definitely in the policy speech of the Labor Party is communications, especially telephonic communications. My Party has always advocated a standard rate for trunk line calls. We. have tried to achieve that progressively. But in regard to this concept, the Prime Minister stated - and I do not think that this is in the Bill - that areas chosen- 
Nevertheless, it was a promise of this Government. This Government quite often has told us that these were its promises and that it had a mandate from the people to honour these promises. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  -  Senator Lawrie,  I was just a'bout to direct your attention to the substance of the debate which is set out in the second reading speech on this Bill. I think you may concede that the interjection by the Minister was appropriate. He probably took my running, as the saying is, because I was going to ask you to come back to the matter before the Chair. I am sure you would agree that the question of rural rates for telephonic communications is wide of the mark in this debate. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I bow to your ruling on this matter, but this subject was to be an important part of my speech. On other occasions we have been told that the Government had a mandate from the people to do this and that and it proposed to do these things. In this instance the matter concerns telephonic communications. But if you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  rule that I cannot refer to that matter, I will have to raise it in some other way later. Whether you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  rule or not that this question does not come within the ambit of this debate, communications are connected with this matter. In order to develop an area the Commission must have power to build roads. I believe that the Commission could conceivably build railway sidings. The power of the Commission under this Bill is not limited; it is as wide as the horizons. For that reason I think that the Commission could deal with all forms of communication. 
There is nothing to stop the Commission from building roads, railway sidings or whatever the Commission may recommend to the Minister should be built in order to develop a particular area. The Commission could conceivably extend electricity supplies to a new factory. I believe that the powers of the Commission will be almost unlimited. They will be pretty much like the powers of the National Capital Development Commission. I think that I would be in order in referring to a lot more points regarding communications, but as you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  have ruled that I am not allowed to do so. I will not cover those points now. The Minister in his speech referred to ribbon development in the capital cities, particularly in Sydney. I do not know how the Cities Commission will develop these areas in what is already a developed city. The Minister said: 
There are at least 2 growth corridors in Sydney. One is what is called the western corridor, which is from Blacktown to Penrith. If the development of that area is not planned rationally it will sprawl irrationally. No matter how much one tries to slow down its growth, it will continue to grow. It has been estimated that its population will grow from something like 200,000 at present to over I million by the turn of the century. 
Apparently this area is to be only one western suburb, or a group of western suburbs of the city of Sydney. He continued: 
We are also trying to control the development of what is called the Menai-Holsworthy-Campbelltown corridor. I that corridor there are about 50,000 people at present, but by the turn of the century there could be nearly 1 million people. 
How much centralisation of population will we get if this sort of thing is allowed to continue? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was speaking in the debate on the Cities Commission Bill, but 1 now ask for leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 When the sitting was suspended at  6  o'clock I was dealing with extracts from the Minister's second reading speech related to certain areas in the western suburbs of Sydney which he said were growth corridors. He made several other statements and mentioned what the population in that area is expected to be.  I  have made it quite clear that I am not opposed to this Bill. My reason for speaking in this debate is to put the various angles for and against it.  I  think  I  could sum up by saying that some of the bad points of the concept of the Bill are: That the land is to be made available on a leasehold basis; land prices are to be frozen, which does not occur in other parts of Australia; there is to be a certain amount of loss of freedom to do as one likes with one's land; there is to be a certain amount of regimentation by some control body; and probably the people who live in the area will have no say in the election of that body, and probably there will be no authority at a local level. 
On the other hand, the good points of this concept are: That large amounts of Federal and State funds will be provided to speed up the development of the area chosen; and that telephone calls to the capital city of the State from which the call is made will be charged at local call rates. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has promised that that will be so. It is a tremendous concession,  I  believe, to places such as Townsville, which was mentioned and which is  800  miles from the capital city. Telephone charges are one of the factors which mitigate against the decentralisation of our industries.  I  believe that the Government will be hard put to deny this concession of charges at local call rates to other areas of Australia. 
One might speculate as to what will happen when a growth centre reaches the point of socalled self-generation and it is believed that it can go on under its own impetus. Will normal powers and local control be returned to the local authorities? We could speculate also on what might happen should an area selected for growth fail for some reason. I hope that the new concept of development is successful and that it will spread some of the population away from the bigger cities. I hope that full consideration will be given to all these factors before it is agreed to enter upon the development of a new area and that when it is decided to enter into a new area that area will prosper. I do not oppose the Bill, but at the Committee stage I will move an amendment. 
There are 9 additional amendments which relate to clauses 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 11, 13 and 14 which read in whole or in part: 
Clause 3. 
The title to the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words 'National Urban and Regional Development Authority' and substituting the words 'Cities Commission'. 
Clause 4. 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words - 
Part B - The National Urban and Regional Development Authority (section 5-14).' and substituting the words - 
Part II - Cities Commission (section 5-14).'. 
Clause 5. 
******* 
In this Act, unless the contrary intention appears - 
Commission' means the Cities Commission established by this Act; 
******* 
Clause 6. 
The heading to Part II of the Principal Act is repealed and the following heading substituted: 
Clause 7. 
Sections 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Principal Act are repealed and the following sections substituted. 5.(1) The body corporate established by the section for which this section was substituted by section 7 of the Cities Commission Act 1973- 
continues in existence by force of this subsection as a body corporate, under the subject to the provisions of this Act, under the name "Cities Commission", but so that the corporate identity of the body corporate shall not be affected'; 
******* 
Clause 11. 
Section 14 of the Principal Act is amended - 
by omitting sub-section (1) and substituting the following sub-section: 
There shall be a Cities Commission 
Advisory Committee to advise the Commission in connection with its duties and powers under this Act.'; and 
******* 
Clause 13. 
***** * 
A person holding office immediately, before the commencement of this Act by virtue of an appointment of the Prime Minister under sub-section 14 (4) of the Principal Act, shall be deemed to have been appointed by the Minister of State for Urban and Regional Development under sub-section 14 (4) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act to be a member of the Cities Commission Advisory Committee and holds office for the remainder of the term for which he was appointed under the Principal Act. 
Clause 14. 
While the Cities Commission is constituted as provided by sub-section 6 (4) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act, the regulations in force under the Principal Act immediately before the commencement of this Act have effect, except to the extent  to  which they are inconsistent with the Principal Act as amended by this Act and subject to any regulations made under the Principal Act as amended by this Act, as if - 
references to the Commissioner were references to" the person holding the office of Commissioner under sub-section 6 (4) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act; and 
references to the Deputy Commissioner were references  to  the person holding the office of Associate Commissioner under sub-section 7 (1) of the Principal Act as amended by this Act. 
I move: 
In clause 3, omit 'Cities Commission', substitute Cities and Regional Development Commission'. 
In clause 4, omit 'Part II - The Cities Commission (sections 5-14)', substitute 'Part II - The Cities and Regional Development Commission (section 5-14)'. 
In clause 5, omit 'Commission' means the Cities Commission established by this Act;', substitute 'Commision' means the cities and Regional Development Commission established by this Act;'. 
In clause 6, omit 'Part II - The Cities Commission', substitute 'Part - -The Cities and Regional Development Commission'. 
In clause 7, omit 'Cities Commission Act 1973 - ', substitute 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Act 1973-'. 
In clause 7, omit 'Cities Commission', substitute Cities and Regional Development Commission'. 
In clause 11, omit 'Cities Commission Advisory Committee', substitute 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Advisory Committee'. 
In clause 13, omit 'Cities Commission Advisory Committee', substitute 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Advisory Committee'. 
In clause 14, omit 'Cities Commission' substitute Cities and Regional Development Commission'. 
Amendments agreed to. 
I direct a question to  the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the statement reported this morning by  Dr Cairns  that the People's Republic of China has made overtures to Australia to have Qantas Airways Ltd establish an air route to China, will this involve a reciprocal arrangement for China's international airline to establish an air service to Australia? 
I wish to enter briefly the discussion on this important Bill. I speak as one who has had 13 years experience in local authority. We all know that local government is the tier of government closest to the people. This Bill introduces an entirely new principle. Canberra is using the power of the purse to centralise control of local authorities. That is very obvious in the Bill. I would have liked to see this matter thrashed out at the constitutional convention which will commence later this year rather than to have it start off on this basis. I admit that local authorities throughout Australia are in difficulty. They must obtain more funds somehow. But the Bill and the second reading speech of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  were very vague about the division of funds amongst councils in regions. The Government has stated that it wants to create regions. It has not stated whether the authorities in a region would have an equal share of the cake or whether the assistance would be provided only for one or two big projects in a region. 
In Queensland until now the drought unemployment relief has been a big help to local authorities. This scheme has just about been phased out. The local authorities have used the funds for work with a high labour content, which is the very basis of the scheme, and it has helped them tremendously. As we all know, local authorities are continually having more and more responsibilities placed on them: Local authority rates, their main source of revenue, are becoming an intolerable burden on land owners. I think that that would be admitted everywhere. But is the proposed scheme the complete answer to the problem? It will partly short-circuit the States. At present the States have the responsibility for the local authorities, including not only councils but also boards of various kind that exist in the States. 
In Queensland 2 local authorities were dissolved some years ago because they did not have enough revenue, and an administrator is running the affairs of those 2 local authorities. One is the Cook Shire and the other is the Thursday Island Town Council. The Cook Shire extends over most of Cape York Peninsula. It takes in Cooktown, Coen, the mining centre of Weipa, and Bamaga at the top of the Peninsula. The Thursday Island Town Council covered the whole of the island. These places are crying out for funds. They do not have enough money to support themselves. The main problem on Thursday Island is the water supply and the main problem in the Cook Shire is the lack of a road right up to the Peninsula to provide access for as many as 10,000 or 12,000 Australians who have no access by road to the rest of Australia. These are big problems for the people who live in these areas. The single fare for the aircraft to take them from, say, Thursday Island to Cairns is $57; there is no economy fare. One can imagine the plight of a man who wants to take his wife and family on annual leave when it costs $57 for each of them to get only as far as Cairns. They would then still be 1,000 miles from Brisbane and 2,000 miles from Melbourne. These areas are crying out for help of some sort. I do not know what the answer is. If there was a road they could get out of the area by car. 
The Torres Strait Islands have local authorities, but not in the sense in which we know them. They are elected councils which look after their own affairs. Quite a few of them could use some help, for instance, to build jetties, piers or landing places for people coming to the islands. These are some of the problems that arise in far northern Queensland. I ask the Minister whether the 2 local authority areas which are at present run by an administrator will, under the new scheme, be classed as regions and would they receive substantial help? Will the Torres Strait Island councils come in the same category? I do not want to take up the time of the Senate except to pose those questions. I will not oppose the 
Bill because something must be done to help local authorities but I do not think that this Bill is the total and complete answer. 
 Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to reports that a large quantity of Australian meat is being held in refrigerated containers in Japanese ports? If this is the case, there could be a shortage of refrigerated space for meat shipment to other countries. Will the Minister cause a full investigation to be made into this matter to prevent Australia's refrigerated trade with other countries being unduly affected? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Urban and Regional Development been drawn to a report that  Mr Uren,  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, is to have a staff of 300, including a high powered staff structure with 30 executives earning between $14,500 and $19,000 a year? These positions will be filled mainly by economists and sociologists. That Department will have also 2  deputy  secretaries, 7 first assistant secretaries and 20 assistant secretaries. Can all these people be gainfully employed? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  In view of the strike by electricity workers in New South Wales and in view of the fact that the Australian Capital Territory is dependent upon New South Wales power stations for electicity, what provision is available to enable the business of Parliament to be carried on in the event of a blackout involving Parliament House? Does Parliament House have an auxiliary power plant? If not, is any other source of emergency lighting available or must we remain in the dark? 
-In view of the Government's previous attitude we have just heard an extraordinary speech from a Government supporter,  Senator McAuliffe.  In previous years when the Liberal-Country Parties formed the government and we had to raise extra revenue such moves were opposed to a man by the then Opposition. In fact the then Opposition even brought the Senate back on one occasion towards the end of June for a special meeting in order to disallow some regulations designed to put up charges. Now that the Labor Party is in government it realises that many charges have to be increased in order to keep the Post Office going. I do not think it is fair to say that the Post Office should be a 100 per cent business proposition. That is one of the things which I object to about the 3 Bills which we are considering. There has been pretty vicious discrimination in all charges against people who live outside the capital cities and the big provincial cities. I think that everybody would agree with that statement.  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned that the Post Office should be run as a business undertaking. However I point out that it costs the PostmasterGeneral 's Department about $ 1 to deliver a letter to Birdsville, in Queensland, the State which he represents. Is he suggesting that a $ 1 stamp should be placed on every letter going to Birdsville? That would make the delivery a business proposition. 

 Senator McAuliffe also mentioned that the Post Office needed more revenue. It does need more revenue to keep going in view of the escalation of costs in that Department. But as I have pointed out already, many of the increases selected by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  discriminate against people  outside the  metropolitan areas. I want to refer firstly to the postage of country newspapers or newspapers which circulate in the country. The House of Representatives has agreed to certain amendments to this legislation and consequential amendments are to be agreed to in the Senate in order to make them fit in with the proper set-up of the Bill. I want to refer to the situation of people living away from the metropolitan areas and the big cities. The printed word in a newspaper which they can sit down and read at their leisure, even though they receive their newspaper perhaps only once or twice a week and whether those newspapers are printed in the country areas or in the city, means much more to them than a fleeting word which they hear on the radio or on television. One cannot be sure that one has picked up what has been said on the radio or on television, and it can be confusing. One cannot be sure of all the facts in these cases. One likes to see things in print. That is why having a newspaper to read, whether it is printed in the country areas or in a metropolis, means so much to the residents in the rural areas and those who live away from the big cities, such as in the mining areas. 
Newspapers means so much to the people who live in those areas that any extra postage charge will hurt them more than anyone else. Very few of the newspapers published in the metropolitan areas are sent through the post. They are sold in news stores and delivered over the fence by news boys at a cheap rate, as  Senator Little  pointed out. But, if a city resident has some doubt about what he thinks he has heard on the radio or on television, he simply has to go down the street and buy a newspaper and he can see it in print. So he can check the facts easily. In country areas where one receives one mail a fortnight, one mail a week, or perhaps even 2 mails a week, the position is much different. Newspapers mean a great deal to the people living in distant mining camps, and the increased postal charges on newspapers, wherever they are published, will hurt them more than anyone else. 
Although the Government has agreed in the House of Representatives to make some concessions and although consequential amendments will be moved here, the postal rates will still be increased.  Senator McAuliffe,  who preceded me in this debate, mentioned at great length the case of the Australian Workers Union journal. He said that because of the large increases in union dues the increased postal charges will not mean very much to that union. That may be so; but not everybody is in the position  of being  able, because of compulsory unionism, to increase dues to such a tremendous extent that the increase outstrips even the current rate of inflation in this country. This particular case does not quite fit in with what we are discussing here. Most honourable senators have received stacks of telegrams and lots of circulars from people who will be hit by the increased postal rates and who will have to pay very dearly because of them. 
In connection with these increased charges, I want to mention the rent paid by country radio stations for the use of landlines. The radio stations in metropolitan areas or big cities pay very little for the use of landline facilities unless they wish to take an interstate relay. But, when a country station has to use a landline that is 400, 500 or 1,000 miles in length, it is a different matter. Country radio stations use these landlines to bring news, sporting results and so on to the country areas. If the increase in rent prohibits the stations from hiring these landlines, it not only will have a detrimental effect on the residents in those areas but also will have an embarrassing effect on the finances of the stations concerned. Already they have suffered somewhat from the Government's policies in relation to tobacco advertising and so on. This extra impost could put out of business some of these country stations which are running very close to the wind now. I suggest that the Post Office has been a little ruthless in relation to some of these matters. I would like to mention also the rents paid by telephone subscribers, particularly in the country areas which have a continuous service. These rents are to be increased viciously. The PostmasterGeneral made this statement in the Parliament: 
Telephone subscribers in metropolitan areas have paid much higher rentals than people in country areas, although the costs of providing service in country areas are much higher. It is recognised that a telephone service is valued by all sections of the community and it is not appropriate to perpetuate this difference in rentals. 
In another part of his statement the PostmasterGeneral said: 
Cheaper rentals have applied historically in the country. The reason given has been that a subscriber in the country has access to fewer subscribers than his metropolitan counterpart at the local call fee. However, this ignores the great difference in the average cost of providing a telephone service in country areas- and especially in rural areas- than in metropolitan areas. 
Under this new policy of the PostmasterGeneral 's Department people in this country will be penalised because of the place in which they live- just by accident of location. If they happen to live away from the great metropolitan areas they will be penalised because it costs more to provide them with a telephone service. We believed that this was a commonwealth in which everything was shared, but obviously that concept has changed. No longer is it so. 
The Government is increasing rentals on telephones connected to country telephone exchanges with 40 subscribers and a continous service. I might mention that a telephone exchange has to have a minimum of 40 subscribers before it can have a continous service. These subscribers probably live a long way from the big centres. I would say that about 95 per cent of their telephone calls would be trunk line calls. This is why they receive a telephone rental concession. Now they are to pay the same rental as a person living in Sydney, Melbourne or any of the other bigger centres where 99 per cent of calls would be local calls; very few of them would be trunk line calls. So the Government is taking away an equalisation measure that has helped the country areas for a long period. I believe that this is another vicious attack on the people who live away from the great metropolitan areas. The excuse given for taking away this concession, as I said, is the higher cost of installing country telephones. So the people who live in those areas are to be penalised further. They need not be primary producers; they could live in a mining district, they could live in some other area in which goods for export are produced to help to keep the country solvent. Those in the primary producing areas produce food and other materials. We no longer have a true commonwealth as far as the sharing of costs is concerned. As I mentioned, I do not know how the postal rate to places such as Birdsville, which has been quoted, has been overlooked. 
The previous Government brought in a new policy on constructing and maintaining country subscriber lines. This policy was brought in partly because of the Government's intention to install automatic exchanges in all centres and it wanted the telephone lines to be of a certain standard. It was considered that if they were constructed privately the standard would not be high enough and the lines would not be maintained. Apparently that policy is to be changed. The conversion of exchanges to rural automatic telephone exchanges is to be slowed down considerably. If the previous rate of conversion had been continued a little longer, nearly all exchanges would have been operating on the automatic system and would have had continous service. Now the position will continue indefinitely where those second class Australian citizens have to hang up their telephones a little after sundown and not use them again until after breakfast the next morning. I believe that this is one of the greatest discriminations against those people who, by sheer accident of location or because of their work or avocation, have to live in a certain area. They are forced to be second class citizens as far as telephone services are concerned. 
I have always advocated that all our citizens should be on the same basis. We should have continuous service on automatic exchanges for everybody as soon as possible. Although only 5 per cent of the telephone users may be affected, it looks as though these people will be in this situation in perpetuity. Although some of them do live in the backblocks, others are in sight of the big cities. But they are not able to have their telephone service upgraded so that it is continuous. They have to suffer because they are not able to use their telephone all day and all night. People who live in more remote areas still have to suffer. In case of accident or sickness, in many cases they cannot get help because the telephone exchange is not open to answer their call between Saturday afternoon and Monday morning. A thunderstorm might develop or a road might be out of order, and this is one of the penalties inflicted on country people who reside away from big cities. 
Next, I should like to deal with the question of making the Post Office a business undertaking. Is it a business undertaking when the people who use the telephone must subsidise those who use the mails? This is what has been happening for some time and is still happening under the new policy of this Government whereby it is hoped that the losses on the mails will just about break even compared with previous mail losses. But the Government has not allowed for increased claims for wages in a very high labour content service. So in the remaining 9 months of the financial year that budgeted surplus could be completely absorbed. The telephone service as a result of its automation has proved a shrewd business undertaking and is able to show a profit. Therefore increased charges have been put on the telephone service rather than on the mails. This means that when you use the telephone now you are subsidising the person who posts a letter. 
Another postage matter which ought to be watched comes with the change to the metric system. There is nothing wrong with the change to the metric system provided it is not used as a camouflage to increase postal charges. The metric system fits in with world arrangements and when one travels the world one can see what we have missed all these years by not having the metric system. Be that as it may, until now the basic postage rate for a letter has been 7c an ounce. One ounce equals approximately 24 grams and I understand that under the new setup the charge will be 7c for 20 grams. Many Christmas cards of less than an ounce could weigh between 20 and 24 grams, and I am afraid that many recipients of Christmas cards this festive season will not be very happy when they have to pay a tax on the cards. I do not think that is in the best spirit for the festive season. Most Christmas cards have probably been designed and printed now but I would hope that they have been kept to a weight which will not attract a tax or that the senders will not have to pay a lot extra to post them.  Senator Little  interjects that he thinks this will be so. 
Many features of these charges make it appear that the Postmaster-General's Department wants to price itself out of business. It is a monopoly and the Department says that it does not want some of this business, that it does not want to accept newspapers and that it does not want to do anything else. This is all part of the overall turnover of the Department whether it be running at a loss, as a borderline activity, or at a profit. It is part of its turnover and if any business with a pretty big turnover loses some of that turnover this will affect the business itself because it must then employ fewer staff or make adjustments of that nature. It would seem that these increased charges and all the increased rates which are set out in this Bill mean that the PMG's Department is determined to lose some of its business. 
I would like to comment on a couple of other matters. One thing which I do not think is quite warranted at present- it might be later- concerns the STD service. When more STD services are available- and many places in Australia cannot yet use STD- people will be charged for them. If STD is available but a subscriber asks for a call to be connected manually he will be charged an extra 20c. It is not made clear in this list of charges whether that applies to persontoperson calls. 
If you dial a person on STD you cannot get a particular person call. So what do you do if you do not want to waste money on the call? You book it through the manual operator. This document does not say clearly whether that extra 20c charge is to apply in those cases, in addition to the particular person call fee. I think that ought to be clarified. Many other things in these Bills could be mentioned. One matter that was mentioned, I think, in the second reading speech concerns clause 13 of the Bill which affects civil liberties. However, I notice that an amendment to clause 13 to be proposed by the Government was circulated a few minutes ago. It reads: 
Where ... a person in a post office has, without lawful authority, a postal article or anything unlawfully taken from a postal article ... the authorised officer may, without warrant, detain that person for the purpose of searching him . . . 
Here is a case of a civilian being given power to detain. Apparently provision was not made in the Bill- I cannot see it anywhere- for an officer to have the power to detain a person and search him and for that person to have redress. If he sees a civilian trying to do that and punches him or something like that, he is in trouble. I think this is an interference with civil liberties. A police officer or somebody of like authority should be authorised to do this. We should look again at the Government's proposed amendment to clause 1 3 which deals with civil liberties. . 
It is difficult to get a police officer in quickly enough to do the arresting or searching, whatever it is. But to have a civilian lay hands on another civilian without any time for identification or without any warrant or anything like that is wrong in principle according to our way of life. That is what I believe and I think we should have another look at that particular set-up. I could mention many other things connected with these Bills. I have mentioned the construction of country telephone lines. The PMG Department had a policy of providing these lines but it has changed that policy and has put the cost on the person concerned- land owner, mine owner, whoever he might be- to build his own telephone line. At the same time the task force headed by  Dr Coombs  in its report to the Government on the review of the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Government, has suggested that in addition to making these people construct their own lines, for which they were previously entitled to a tax deduction, they should lose that right to the income tax deduction. This is to apply when they have to provide their own telephone services which were previously provided by the Government. Previously when they had to provide any section of the telephone line, they got a taxation deduction for it. 
I believe that when we reach the Committee stage we should have a good look at many clauses of these Bills, particularly clause 13 which I have mentioned. We should also examine the provision for land lines for country radio stations and other matters of that nature and particularly the telegraphic services to country newspapers. We should look at everything contained in this set of Bills. The Opposition here takes the view that this is a Government set of charges. Whilst they have been particularly vicious and selective charges against people who live outside the big cities, we do not propose to oppose the Bills. But we will have a look at some amendments during the Committee stage. 
-I am not at all happy about clause 1 3 as it stands. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has offered to defer this clause- to take it out of the Bill for the time being. My Party is happy to accept that offer and I believe it should be accepted. The clause can be brought in again at a later date. It is wrong in principle for a civilian without identification to have the right to arrest and search people. There should be some way of getting around that situation, even if it requires the production of an authority. If a man in civilian clothing came up to me and said 'I am going to arrest you. I suspect that you have something you should not have', and I did not know him, even if he produced an authority I believe he would have no redress if I just punched him for interfering with or molesting me in that way. He would have no grounds for doing so in law. This argument has come up time and again during the consideration of legislation dealing with primary producers. The Attorney-General has offered to take this clause out of the Bill. The Country Party accepts that offer. We can have a look at it at some later date. 
-I ask the. Leader of the Government in the Senate: When does the Government propose to take action to restore normal air services in Australia? Does the Government propose to pursue a policy of masterly inactivity indefinitely, to the great detriment of the travelling public? 
I support the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in the remarks he made on this piece of legislation. I think the previous  speaker, Senator McLaren,  did not know what he was talking about when he referred to the beef industry. This Government has adopted a vicious anti-rural industry policy. I support the remarks of the previous speakers in this debate from this side of the chamber. This tax, as I understand it, is being imposed for 2 reasons. The first is to cover the cost of export meat inspection fees; the second is to provide funds so that the Government does not have to subsidise the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns.  Senator McLaren  said that when we were in government we did nothing in those areas. 
The honourable senator did say that at the beginning of his remarks. The cattle industry of Australia has been working towards the eradication of brucellosis and tuberculosis for a long time now. Previous governments have said to the industry: 'You put up so much money and we will provide a subsidy to cover the research into these problems'. The industry already provides this money which is collected in the form of a slaughter tax which  Senator Drake-Brockman  mentioned. The campaign to eradicate tuberculosis and brucellosis has made considerable progress in many parts of Australia. Bovine tuberculosis has been eradicated completely in many areas and considerable progress has been made in the eradication of brucellosis. Now the Government says: Although we have given so many millions of dollars by way of subsidy for this research to be carried out we will not provide that subsidy an) longer. We intend to impose a tax of 1.6c per lb on the export of meat so that we will not have to pay this subsidy towards brucellosis and tuberculosis research'. In effect, the Government is putting right back on the industry the responsibility to contribute the whole of the money required for research into these 2 diseases in the cattle industry. 
This situation does not apply in other industries. Many industries in Australia- both primary and secondary- have entered into similar arrangements with the Government, and those arrangements still apply. Many of those arrangements have not been altered by the Government. The understanding has been that the industry should set up a fund for research of various kinds to be carried out, whether by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation or anyone else, and the Government has subsidised that research. The Government has picked out one industry and said: 'You are prosperous now. We will not subsidise you any longer. You have to pay your own contribution towards the slaughter tax and you are to pay this from an export levy'. I think that this is being pretty vicious to an industry which is providing so much of Australia 's export income. It is a very vulnerable industry in many ways because the detection of certain diseases in our livestock can stop our exports overnight. We must watch that situation. We must ensure absolute cleanliness in our stock. We must have health controls in this industry which are 100 per cent effective. Over the years the industry has worked up to this standard. The standard of the meat packing plants today is a credit to the industry. I have inspected facilities of this type in other countries and I believe that ours are far superior in cleanliness and hygiene. 
I suggest that it is pretty unfair to single out one industry and ask it to contribute towards the cost of these inspections. We have been told that over a 33-month period the proposed levy of 0.6c, which is part of the total levy, will bring in $80m. As I say, this levy is to remove the necessity for the Government to subsidise the brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication campaigns. It is expected that during the 9 months to June 1974 the levy will be paid on 1 , 105,000 tons of meat, and this will bring in $24m. This is far in excess of the amount required to cover the inspection costs over that period. So we wonder where the surplus money will go. One would assume that it will go into Consolidated Revenue. But the industry, in addition to contributing to this type of research, must contribute to research funds which most States have set up. 
The cattle industry pays money into a research fund of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. The statement that the industry is not doing anything, is not doing much or is not doing everything that it possibly can to bring about an absolutely disease free industry is wrong. The Australian Meat Board is running this research, on behalf of the Government, through the CSIRO. Some of the things which are being researched are weight gains, heat tolerances, dentition, early maturity and many other things in the industry. Then the industry is being slugged with an export charge to pay for inspections. According to the figures which the industry has been given, the export charge will pay not only the anticipated cost of inspections of export meat but more. The export price is a variable one; it can rise or fall. The inspection fee will still be there, we presume. The meat inspectors will still be there. Many other costs will be added from time to time. I believe that this proposal is part of the Government's attack on the rural industries. It picks out a particular industry which is apparently prosperous at present. If there is a setback, if meat prices fall considerably, there will be no suggestion of removing any of the charges. Once they are on, they will stay on. I think that we should have a very good look at all the proposals in the Bill before we agree to it. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation. Why is the Government insisting that the airline operators sign an agreement not to negotiate separately in any industrial dispute? Is the Government carrying out a policy of compulsory unionism amongst airline operators, of whom the Government controls a majority? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to reports that foot and mouth disease has now been diagnosed in West Irian in addition to Bali? Will the Minister see that our quarantine regulations are tightened and that all possible precautions are taken to prevent this disease spreading to Australia? 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, but do not know whether he is here yet. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)-  There is no substance in the point of order. 
I now direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the report that a ship is missing off the Tasmanian coast; it still had not been located at the time of the broadcast of the lunchtime news bulletins. Does the Navigation Act not provide for ships to report their position by radio at regular intervals, in a similar manner to aircraft? If this is not the case, will the Minister take action to see that this is done, so that in the case of a missing ship a search can be started at a much earlier time and with a better chance of saving life? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to reported statements that even if Australian wool growers vote in the affirmative on the question of the export of merino rams, the unions concerned  will still refuse to allow the export of any rams? Will the Minister make it clear to those concerned that in the event of an affirmative vote the Government will take firm action to see that no union impediment will prevent the export of these rams? Will the Minister make it clear that the Government intends to govern and not be dictated to by such industrial organisations? 
My question, which I . direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development, refers to the reported sale of sugar to the People's Republic of China. Were the Australian sugar marketing authorities informed of this sale beforehand, or was the first they knew of it when they read of it in the Press? 
I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. In view of the delicate position concerning the world 's oil supplies and the uneasy peace in the Middle East will the Minister make available to the Senate a statement showing the amount of liquid fuel reserves held in Australia, the length of time these reserves are expected to last in an emergency and how long it will take to introduce some plan to share the available fuel among essential services if an emergency arises? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory inform the Senate whether rural freehold land in the Australian Capital Territory is valued for death duty purposes at what it is considered to be worth as an agricultural proposition or at what it would bring in the open market as a future urban proposition, that is, at market value as determined by sales evidence? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: In view of the fact that Australian shipyards are so short of work, why was approval given for the Australian National Line to have 2 bulk carriers built overseas? 
I do not think I will take quite as long to put my case as did  Senator Cant,  but I think it will be a much better case. I am against this legislation at the present time. I will state my reasons. The main point of this legislation is contained in clause 6 of the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which states: 
It is by this Act declared and enacted that the sovereignty in respect of the territorial sea, and in respect of the airspace over it and in respect of its bed and subsoil, is vested in and exercisable by the Crown in right of the Commonwealth. 
That is the whole story. We are told that the Commonwealth has sovereignty from the low water mark. This legislation was originally introduced about 3 years ago. At that time some considerable difference of opinion existed among the members of the then Government. It was decided to refer the matter to the States for conference and to see whether some arrangement or agreement could be made with them. 
I do not believe that this matter has been pursued fully. I believe that the States are not so uncompromising that they will not agree to a decision being reached as to where a line of demarcation should be drawn. The 3-mile limit is not mentioned in any international law that I know of but perhaps at a further conference of the States some sort of agreement can be made. I believe that conditions are very much different in my State of Queensland in the sense that we have many islands and reefs. There is also the question of the actual extent of our boundary. The position of the low water mark is even in doubt. At low tide where is low water mark when there is such a huge area of reef out of the water? It is a very big problem as to where the control should actually lie. I believe the people of my State will fight to the limit against any suggestion of taking away control of the Barrier Reef from them. 
Section 5 1 of the Australian Constitution spells out the powers of the Parliament and states: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to: 
Sub-section (x) states: 
Fisheries in Australian waters beyond territorial limits. 
What will happen to fisheries within territorial limits if this Bill is passed. What are territorial limits? They have never been spelt out. I think some sort of agreement can be adopted with the States on some definite mileages of territorial limits. It could be 3 miles or 12 miles, within which we control the fishing. 
Queensland is in a far different position from the other States because of the maze of islands and reefs and the great area of shallow water which extends almost to the Papuan boundary and SO or 60 miles out from the coast. I should like to quote some history concerning the control of the waters off the coast of Queensland. I take my quote from 'Triumph in the Tropics' by Lack and Cilento which was published 14 or 15 years ago and which reads: 
When Queensland was separated from New South Wales in 1 859 her rights were not clearly denned regarding the islands off the coast. Letters patent dated 6 June 1859 and letters patent dated 13 March 1862 transferred to Queensland 'all and every adjacent islands, etc.,' but, what was 'adjacent?' 
In 186S, the Governor of New South Wales granted a lease of Raine Island - 
That is 6 years after Queensland became a separate State- (latitude 1 1 degrees 35 minutes South; longitude 144 degrees 1 minute East), which is on the outer edge of the Barrier Reef and about 60 miles from the coast of Queensland. 
On 30 May 1872, the Governor of Queensland was appointed Governor of all islands within 60 miles of the coast and these islands were transferred to Queensland by Government Gazette 1872, Vol. l,pp. 1325-6. 
By letters patent dated 10 October 1878, Queensland was authorised to annex by Proclamation the islands beyond the 60-mile limit. By G.G. 1879, Vol. 1, pp. 1379-80; and G.G. 1879, Vol. II, p. 143, the boundaries of Queensland were extended to include all islands of the Great Barrier Reef, Torres Straits and the Gulf of Carpentaria. 
The passing of the Imperial 'Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act' of 1901 rendered it necessary to issue a new Commission to the Governor of Queensland. Letters patent dated 29 October 1900 did not confirm those letters patent dated 10 October 1878. 
This is the interesting part and honourable senators will note the date. It continues: 
To place the matter beyond doubt, a fresh Commission was issued to the Governor of Queensland on 10 June 1925. 
That is 25 years after Federation. This was as a result of letters patent from the imperial authorities in Westminster, and the letters patent spell out the result quite clearly: 
The maritime boundary of Queensland is the coastline from Point Danger to the 138th meridian in the Gulf of Carpentaria, together with all islands within the outer edge of the Barrier Reef and within a line drawn from the north-western point of the Reef to the 1 38th meridian. 
I believe that that spells out what the imperial authorities in Westminster and the Queensland Government of the day believed was the territory which they controlled, and I have the authority to show that. The maritime boundary of Queensland includes all the Barrier Reef, all the shallow waters and each and every island. If one adopted a 3-mile limit around each and every island or rock which is above water at hight tide, it would cover a tremendous area in that part of Australia. I have mentioned that the position in relation to fishing rights is not clear. 
We have a Constitution which says that the Commonwealth Government cannot control fisheries in territorial waters, as I read out to the Senate a little while ago. The Bill sets out to take control of everything from the low water mark. We have an interesting position. By means of this Bill and another Bill we are trying to spell out the position in relation to royalties on minerals. Is it seriously suggested that if a coal mine or some other mine were put down right on the beach or on a little rocky headland and it had one tunnel which went out to sea for 1 or 2 miles and another tunnel which went shoreward the Commonwealth should get the royalties from the coal or minerals or whatever from one tunnel and not from the other? I think the position becomes ludicrous in many ways. I believe and my Party believes that we should defeat this Bill or defer it until after futher consultation with the States. As I have said before, I have spoken to the Ministers in some of the States and I do not believe it is impossible to reach agreement with them. The Commonwealth has an agreement in relation to oil royalties. 
We are talking about minerals found under the waters extremely close to the shore, and I do not think there would be any difficulty in cutting up the areas close to the shore. I suggest that the Commonwealth should have another conference with the States. If what the Government suggests is carried out we will have a very big mix-up involving interminable legal battles. The Government wants to pass this Bill willy nilly and try to arrive at some sort of law by a series of legal battles. I do not believe that is feasible. I do not think that the legislation should be passed at this stage in its present form. As a Queenslander I intend to fight as hard as I can to prevent the control of the Barrier Reef passing out of the hands of Queenslanders. I believe that the legislation should be deferred so that we can have another look at it or so that we can have another conference with the States. I am totally opposed to the Bill in its present form. 
Last week I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory as to the method of valuing rural land in the Australian Capital Territory for probate duty purposes. He promised to obtain the information for me. Can I expect an early answer to this question? 
-I desire to say a few words on this matter. First of all, I will oppose any suggestion of a joint meeting of the 2 Houses. I will do so for a number of reasons: It has no constitutional validity. Any decisions taken would not be binding or would not have any effect on anybody. There is the problem of having a meeting with no debate, as has been suggested, but with, more or less, a counting of heads on the 2 sites. This can be done in many other ways. There was a suggestion at some earlier stage that we clear the parliamentary dining room and have the meeting there. 
Or King's Hall. I think there are many problems in that because while Parliament is meeting in one chamber or the other it is protected by privilege and many other things that go with Parliament but it is very questionable, if we meet somewhere else whether the law of privilege applies. I do not believe that just getting a vote or a count of heads would achieve anything. So, for that reason I am against any joint meeting. 
With regard to the site, I do not see why we cannot vote as we did before on a particular site which members of this chamber believe would be the best place to put the new and permanent parliament house. I have always been a supporter of Capital Hill and I will continue to support Capital Hill. I believe that that is the most dominant place in Canberra. I understand that in the original design it was the site for the permanent parliament house. It is the most conspicuous place in this city. The mere fact that a ring road has been put around the hill does not mean anything. It can be filled in again, if it has to be. There are some problems about enough parking space under modern conditions. But, with underground parking, I believe that could be overcome. For that reason I have always supported Capital Hill, and I will continue to support Capital Hill. I intend to oppose any joint meeting because I do not think it will achieve anything. Joint meetings are provided for in the Constitution under certain conditions. This is not one of those conditions. Therefore I oppose the motion. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory convey to the Senate the answer to my question without notice, which he has already given to me in writing, concerning the valuation of freehold agricultural land adjacent to cities, and particularly that adjacent to Canberra which was the subject of a recent attempt at acquisitions at less than ruling market rates? In the light of the attitude of the Commissioner of Taxation in relation to this matter, will he concede that the Government was trying to apply a double standard to the value of lands proposed to be acquired in the Australian Capital Territory? As this question was asked in the Senate, will the Minister give the answer in the Senate? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can he assure the Senate and the Australian people that ample supplies of petrol and oil will be available for the foreseeable future and that there will be no need for petrol rationing in this country? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade: What action does the Government propose to take to maintain our overseas trade, both in exports and imports, in view of the cut-back in the amount of fuel available to some shipping lines? 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I seek clarification as to the Bill with which we are dealing. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  This is the first reading of the Income Tax (Non-resident Dividends and Interest) Bill. 
We have been given material for 3 Bills introduced by  Senator Willesee.  They are the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4), the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) and the Income Tax Bill. We have not been given material for the Income Tax (Nonresident Dividends and Interest) Bill. There is some confusion.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I suggest that you look at the matter during the suspension of the sitting and have the proper material distributed. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- The point is that we have reached only the first reading stage of the Bill. The material will be distributed at the second reading stage. You are a bit quick. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry in his capacity as the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry. Is the Government aware that during recent months many items in every day use have become very difficult to purchase and are apparently in short supply? I refer particularly to household goods, paper products, wearing apparel, building materials, steel products such as nails, motor car parts, agricultural machinery parts, fencing wire, and many other things. What action is the Government taking to overcome these shortages? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Will the Minister make available to the Senate a statement showing the amount of liquid-fuel reserves held in Australia. 
What is the length of time that these reserves are expected to last during an emergency. 
How long would it take to introduce a plan to share the available fuel amongst essential services. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. I refer to an answer to a question on notice which I received yesterday from the Minister for Minerals and Energy through  Senator Wriedt  which stated that there was no need for petrol rationing in Australia. How is this statement reconciled with a statement made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy and reported in this morning's Press appealing to Australians to go easy on fuel and energy consumption? 
I shall speak briefly on these Appropriation Bills. As has already been mentioned, in the past 12 months the rate of inflation has greatly increased. In that time there has been such a shortage of everyday goods in Australia as to be unprecedented in peace time. I am not sure what has caused this, but it would seem to be a shortage of labour. In the past few months cotton textiles have been in extremely short supply and there has been a shortage also of many items of wearing apparel and household goods. For some reason there has been a scarcity of paper products for various purposes, including printing. Paper products have been in such short supply that we could not get out application forms for postal votes for the referendum until 2 or 3 days after the writs had been issued. The forms were just not available, the excuse being that the electoral officer did not have the paper to print them. Building materials such as nails and roofing iron are also in short supply. We are told that the Government has sent substantial quantities of nails and roofing iron to Vietnam, with the result that there is not enough to go around for local use. This sort of thing tends to send prices up. I can mention shortages in various steel products such as motor car parts, tractor parts and agricultural machinery parts, and particularly fencing wire, which it would seem is no longer available. I know of one man in the rural sector who, wanting his farm machinery overhauled in preparation for the sowing of his crop, was told by the people who had been doing this work for him every year that it was of no use their overhauling his machinery as they could not get replacements for faulty parts. 
I will find out afterwards. A couple of other things in that area are in short supply also. There is a scarcity of manpower in this country. The Government has cut back on our immigration program at a time when it should have been maintained. Australia is a fast developing country, but manpower is one of the things in short supply. During the past 12 months transport costs and many other costs have increased greatly. One of the things that is adversely affecting business is the record rates of interest, to which reference has been made in the Senate in recent weeks. The present rates of interest are probably the highest ever in peace time in this country. 
-As my friend  Senator Wright  says, without doubt. When money is plentiful interest rates should come down, but the situation at present is the opposite. Apparently money is plentiful for many forms of investment, but instead of interest rates coming down in accordance with the law of supply and demand, they have gone up to record high levels. Despite assurances to the contrary, I believe that Australia is in for trouble with its oil and power supplies. I was told in answer to a question yesterday that Australia is nearly 70 per cent selfsufficient in oil but that supplies are not expected to last for more than 7 or 8 years. The previous Government, which introduced an oil search subsidy for a 15 -year period, was largely responsible for oil development in our continent, which was once thought to be devoid of oil deposits. After the discovery of oil at Barrow Island in Western Australia and Moonie in Queensland there was a great rush to find new oil deposits and a period of great development followed. The Australian oil industry has developed from that point, assisted by the oil search subsidy, but now that has ceased. The Labor Government, instead of attempting to maintain oil parity, is content saying that only a limited period is in sight for oil wells and oil production in Australia. This is a time when Australia should be extending its oil search program in an attempt to become selfsufficient in oil. These are just a few of the things that I wanted to bring before the Senate when speaking on these Appropriation Bills. I was not here to speak when the Budget was introduced but, as has been mentioned, we do not propose to refuse the passage of these Appropriation Bills. Although we are not very happy with many aspects of them. We will be able to discuss the question of taxation as it relates to the rural sector when the Taxation Bills come up for debate soon. I think that the record inflation rate, the high interest rate and the shortage of goods and supplies concern Australians much more than many members of this Parliament realise. I have tried to find out what the Government proposes to do about this situation but cannot get any answer. They are the only comments I would make on these Bills. 
I should like to draw the attention of the Committee to one item in group C involving the Department of Social Security. The members of the Estimates Committee were informed that a great deal of information on the Government's proposed national health scheme had been published, some had been circulated and some has been got ready to be circulated before the Bill was introduced into the Parliament. I think that, while this may not be absolutely wrong in some senses, to spend a lot of money on publicity leaflets and everything that goes with this scheme before the Bill is introduced into the Parliament is not quite right. 
-Will the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs table in the Senate the 2 reports on turtle farming in the Torres Strait, one by the American expert and the other by  Senator Willesee  's committee? 
The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  still has not answered the question which related to the effect that this legislation would have on the fishermen of countries with whom we do not have diplomatic relations. It is conceivable that vessels from Taiwan and perhaps other countries with whom Australia does not have diplomatic relations could be caught poaching in Australian waters. How do we get on in such a case? 
-The Australian Country Party does not oppose either the Fisheries Bill or the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill, but we will support the amendments proposed to be moved at the Committee stage. These 2 Bills fit in with and partly attach to the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill which the Country Party opposed last week. But since that Bill has become law and probably will be the subject of a High Court challenge as to who has authority over which particular parts of the off-shore seabed, we have to look at these Bills in connection with the Seas and Submerged Lands Bill. One of these Bills is apparently concerned with sedentary life in the sea and the other is concerned with swimming fish. Because we are dealing with two forms of sea life 2 separate Bills have been introduced. As regards the sedentary type of life in the sea, one of the most important species which affects us and affects the foreign fishing boats operating in our waters is the giant clam which is found around many of the islands to the north and east of Queensland. In his second reading speech on the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Bill the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  made one statement which is not clear and to which I would like to draw his attention. He said:  the main purpose of the Continental Shelf (Living Natural Resources) Act is to enable the fullest possible protection to be given to the living resources of the continental shelf of Australia and the external territories, including the Great Barrier Reef. 
How does the Minister fit in the Great Barrier Reef with the external territories as mentioned in his second reading speech? I think that probably the position might have been expressed differently in the speech. It is not clear and I think that the Minister should clear it up when he replies. 
Clause 8 of the Bill provides for the licensing of the boats. I believe that it provides for a joint licensing by the Commonwealth and the States. This will overcome any future difficulties, depending upon a possible High Court ruling on the actual areas of jurisdiction which may be given when the position is challenged, as I understand is sure to be the case. The Minister stated in his second reading speech: 
Clause 8 empowers the Minister to close an area to the taking of a specified sedentary organism except by persons or by the use of boats with licences endorsed to permit the taking of that sedentary organism in that area. 
He qualifies that by saying: 
These provisions will enable effective effort-control programs to be undertaken where necessary, especially in the case of removal of live coral from the Great Barrier Reef, and of the talcing of abalone. 
I point out that for a long time the taking of live coral, or any coral, from the Great Barrier Reef or any of the islands is absolutely illegal in Queensland. No doubt, if the court rules that the Commonwealth has control over parts of the Great Barrier Reef, that will be only a complementary power to that which already exists in Queensland. I might mention that the law in regard to the taking of live coral is very rigidly enforced. 

 Senator Laucke mentioned foreign ships and the mandatory provision that ships will be subject to forfeiture. I think that that matter will be raised during the Committee stage. Clause 20 of the Bill contains a retroactive provision which I believe involves a bad principle. I would like the Minister to explain why it is necessary to provide that ships seized at any time prior to the royal assent being given to this Bill are, in effect, to be held to have been seized at the date that it comes into force. Retrospective legislation involves a bad principle in British justice anywhere that it is applied. It seems that we are introducing it here where it should not be necessary. 
The other Bill under discussion is the Fisheries Bill 1973. The remarks of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech about the value of production from fisheries are very interesting. No doubt, the industry will grow if properly looked after and fostered. We could arrive at the position where the harvest of the sea becomes a very substantial part of our national income. This income is derived mainly from the swimming fish. Also, mention is made of a 200 mile preferential fisheries zone. I understand that some of the South American countries are claiming such a zone now unilaterally. It is not agreed to under the law of the sea conferences. We have heard and seen a lot of publicity in recent months about fishing around Iceland which is claiming, I think, a 50 mile zone for its fishing boats. It is very difficult for any one nation to settle that unilaterally. Really, it can be settled only by conference between the nations on the law of the sea. I hope that some action will be taken to make quite clear what power we have over the area of the continental shelf which is claimed in respect of minerals under the seabed and what power we have over the swimming fish. I understand that the law today states that our control over foreign fishing boats extends only 10 miles from the shore and around each and every island. With those few brief remarks, I repeat that the Country Party is not opposed to these Bills but will support the amendments to be moved in Committee. 
I should like to raise one specific point. Two or three years ago we had the spectacle of foreign fishing boats fishing for prawns in the Gulf of Carpentaria which, incidentally, we have not been able to establish as historical waters or Australian controlled waters. These trawlers stayed just outside of the 12-mile limit, or whatever the limit was at the time, and were protected by one of their nation's warships. In the context of this legislation, if such vessels strayed a bit close to the Australian coast and the Australian Government seized them could not this cause diplomatic trouble with a nation to our north? A great deal of trouble was caused by foreign vessels fishing for prawns in the Gulf of Carpentaria. 

 -Both Senator Laucke and I raised the question of retrospective legislation in respect of clause 20 which, in effect, says that if the Government has seized any vessel or should seize any vessel between now and the date of royal assent it will be held to be seized under the provisions of this measure. This is wrong. It has never been accepted in British law though it is done often in United States law. It is wrong in principle. If an alleged offence is not an offence by law at the date on which it is committed, it cannot be made an offence at some subsequent date. That is a cardinal principle of our law. For this reason I oppose clause 20. 1 asked the Minister when we first spoke on the Bill to give us an explanation for the clause and I do not think he mentioned that aspect. 
I support previous speakers on this side in what they said about the Income Tax Bills and particularly the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 as it applies to the rural sector of this nation. It has created great uncertainty among primary producing sections about planning. Despite what many people believe to the contrary, primary producers do plan ahead; they try to plan 12 months ahead for all their expenditure and the goods or produce they hope to sell. We are well into December and we have not yet passed a Bill which fixes the tax rates for the last financial year. It is only now being considered by the Senate. A great deal of confusion has been caused to tax experts and accountants. They have only recently been able to issue circulars to their clients on what they think will be the final result. Even now, despite the spelling out in these Bills, much of the final decision will be left to the discretion of the Commissioner of Taxation. The Bills do not spell out everything and some things must be left to the discretion of the Commissioner. 
Some sort of special attack appears to have made on the primary producing section. The investment allowances and other concessions have been either cut out or greatly reduced. We have to develop as a nation. We have to produce food and other things and it would be a very sorry state for this nation if as a result of government interference with conditions under which the rural sector operates we became an importer of food. Since European settlement of this country we have depended on our exports which through the years have mainly been foodstuffs; and the whole pattern of our settlement and development has been built on that. Tax concessions for the people producing the export income have been severely cut back and this has affected the expenditure of these people in many ways. 
There is no barbed wire. That is right. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, when they have finished over there in the corner I will be able to proceed. If the Government only realised it, by allowing the investment allowances and other forms of taxation allowances to the rural sector, it would get the money back several times over as extra taxation from the machinery people, from people who sell seed, motor vehicles and that son of thing. The taking away of those concessions from the rural sector has affected the demand for many of the things produced in the cities, and it must have some effect on the economy in the long run. Even today it was said here that there is such a shortage of goods that people just cannot get parts for their vehicles and machinery. For some reason the price of petrol has gone up as a result of the removal of some of the concessions in the equalisation scheme and now we are told that concessions on diesel fuel, which is used extensively in the rural sector for tractors and stationary engines, will be removed and that the price of diesel fuel will go up to about 60c a gallon. 
We will have to do something if we are going to live. The Coombs task force made about 150 recommendations. Many of them apply to the rural sector. Somebody in the Department must have gone through everything very carefully to pick out all the alleged concessions which applied to that sector. This had repercussions pretty soon in the New South Wales elections for the rural sector in that State showed quite clearly that it was not very happy with the actions of the Whitlam Government in Canberra in these respects. I repeat that some stability must be afforded in taxation matters. Many people in the country areas are frightened that next year there will be a staggering increase in taxation, particularly income tax, and that the concessions that have been taken away will aggravate the position and make it much more difficult for them to carry on. If the Government wants to go to the people on this matter or on any of the other matters I have no doubt that it will get the message from the people who are suffering so much from the income tax laws. We as a Party realise that this is a Budget measure. For that reason we are not opposing it, but we are not accepting it very happily. We believe that if these measures go on any further we will have to reconsider our attitude. I have said these few words on behalf of the people I represent. 
-The Australian Country Party does not oppose this Bill. But as had been pointed out already, a very large sum of money is being spent by way of State grants under section 96 of the Constitution. Apparently, the States have control over the spending of this money although they have to account to the Commonwealth for what they spend. It is strange that the Northern Territory should be included in a States Grants Bill and included in all the schedules that are attached to it. Large sums have been provided for expenditure in the Northern Territory. The areas in which the $32,250,000 to be paid to the States is to be spent is spelt out in great detail. Some of the amounts are quite small. Some should be checked a little to see that there is no waste. I notice that in some areas substantial sums are being invested in cattle properties. I hope that some form of overseeing is undertaken if the management is to be in the hands of the Aboriginal people to help them and to give them guidance. 
Quite a lot of money is to be spent on housing. I suppose that the biggest single item for expenditure is for houses that are to be constructed pretty well all over Australia. I notice that $205,257 has been provided to develop a cattle project in the Northern Territory. It is proposed to spend $198,720 to develop a similar cattle project at Unia. The acquisition of Willowra Station will cost $325,000 and phase one of a development program for Roper River will cost $336,000. Then there is the matter which has been under discussion in the Senate already concerning Applied Ecology Pty Ltd for which $430,000 has been allocated. I do not know what is the position in regard to that. I do not know whether we will approve of it now or whether it will be held up for further discussion or investigation. There is another matter in which I am just a little interested. One of the islands in the Tones Strait-I think that it is St Paul Islandhas a wolfram mine. I do noi know whether it is producing or whether any great investigation has been made into it. But there is an item of expenditure for $20,000 for a manager's salary and operating expenses. I would like to know who is the manager and whether this is a viable proposition. 
There are quite a lot of smaller amounts spelt out in great detail which are to be expended all over Australia, including the Northern Territory, even though this is a States Grants Bill. During the hearing of a Senate Estimates Committee we were told that an effort was being made to teach various Aboriginal dialects in schools in the Northern Territory. We were told that there were special sections in these schools and that there were many, although I do not know how many, of these dialects in the Northern Territory. I asked a question in regard to this because I was interested in how the dialects were committed to paper. The answer I received was that there was a system of phonetic spelling and that they even had trouble when they came to spell some of the words on a typewriter. It was very interesting to see that this way of life and language is being preserved with this type of teaching. An enormous number of specialists will be needed for this work. Generally speaking, we support the Bill, but we appeal for full supervision and checking of expenditure to see that the' money is spent wisely, with as little waste as possible. 
-Do I understand that the main clause, clause 20, cannot be amended in Committee? 
Then why does the Bill have to go back to the Senate? 
In effect, we are dealing only with clause 20 now? 
The main disagreement I have in regard to this Bill and the following Bill is with clause 20 in each of them. They make the Bills retrospective, and I do not like the principle of retrospective legislation. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  agreed, when we were dealing with these Bills, to report progress and to refer the matter to the Crown Law Office. He has returned with these suggestions which we on the Opposition side appreciate very much. They will remove many of the objections that we had to this part of the Bill. For that reason I support them. 
I wish to say on behalf of the Australian Country Party that we have no objection to these Bills and support them.  Senator Laucke  has pointed out already that they have been introduced simply to convert the financial arrangements in connection with the honey levy and the egg export charges into the metric system. We hope that the Bills have a speedy passage. 
Bills read a second time, and passed through their remaining stages without requests or debate. 
-The Australian Country Party will not offer any opposition to these 3 Bills. We support them. 

 Senator Laucke already has outlined the principle involved in them which is to place a levy on honey exports. The levy was not introduced originally on exports because of the depressed state of the export market at the time. Apparently the export market is now very buoyant. The levy will be 0.3c per kilogram of honey exported. The other Bill provides machinery for the collection and paying out of the money to the Australian Honey Board. The operational costs of the Board have been increasing all the time and we are told that it does not want to put further levy on local sales. For those reasons we hope that these 3 Bills have a speedy passage. 
-The proposed development of the Albury-Wodonga area is a new concept by this Government in the development of urban areas. In this case 2 State governments, New South Wales and Victoria, are involved, and, as they have apparently both agreed to go on with this development with the Commonwealth Government as a tri-partite agreement, the Country Party will not oppose the legislation. However, I should like to mention a few thoughts about the matter and say a few things that are concerning some of the local people. One is the abolition, or the almost complete abolition, of local government. I suppose when one thinks it out and realises that some outside board or commission- it will consist of 3 or 5 persons in this case- is to have the absolute say and direction in relation to running this new area and that the Commonwealth is going to provide the money, it is only fair to reason that the Commonwealth should have a say in what is being done. 
But we are to have the spectacle here of the local authority being abolished, or nearly abolished, and to have taxation without representation. 
Our local government system has grown up over a very long period, and the people will not take too kindly to not having any say in the election of the people who tax them for ordinary city development purposes. That will be the case in this area. Last week we debated a proposed referendum to provide money for local government, and it was stated then that there was no definition of local government. Here we will have the spectacle of local government being abolished or almost completely abolished. Will that local government share in the proposed alteration to the Constitution that we were talking about last week? That is just a side issue, certainly, but I have been talking to some representatives from that area today, and they are most concerned about some aspects of the proposed development. No date is set for the return of powers after a period of years- any number of years- in which development takes place and the Commonwealth continues to pour money into the corporation that is developing it. They have no idea when they will again get the right to elect their own local government. Like Kathleen Mavourneen, it may be for years or it may be forever that this new corporation will run or develop the area. 
Apparently the new corporation, commission or whatever it is called, is to have great powers to determine how the land can be used. If a person buys land and wants to put a housing development on it, he might find that it is to be a football stadium or something like that, and he will be told what is to be done with it. Another sore point with the local people concerns the clauses about the resumption of land and the policy of the Government to revert as much of the land as it can from freehold tenure to leasehold tenure. The resumption of the land under this BUI is left to the State authorities, as I understand it, and that means that it is not subject to the Commonwealth Constitution, under which properties can be acquired only after the payment of just compensation. Therefore, if the State authorities are to handle the resumption of land they are not bound by that provision in our Constitution. 
Another point- this is a very sore point with the local people- is that the resumption is to be at 1972 values. The base value for determining compensation payable will be assessed retrospectively at 3 October 1972. Added to the value assessed at that date will be a computer determined increment for the inflationary increase in land values based on comparable land sales throughout New South Wales and Vittoria. But there is no valid reason for using 3 October 1972 as the base date. It just happens to be the date on which the development of the Orange-Bathurst growth centre was announced by the New South Wales Government. The same date was then taken up by the then Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  when he announced that Albury-Wodonga would be one of the proposed Commonwealth growth centres in the event of Labor winning government. It might also be remembered that 25 January 1973 was the earliest date on which agreement on the Albury-Wodonga project was reached by the Federal, New South Wales and Victorian governments. Yet the proposal is to take a date four or five months before the date of agreement as the date on which to base land values for resumption purposes. 
I want to raise another point that is not mentioned in any of this legislation. I distinctly remember the present Prime Minister, the then Leader of the Opposition, promising that if these regional growth centres, such as this one which is proposed, were developed local telephone call rates would apply to telephone calls made to the capital cities in the respective States. At the time the Prime Minister mentioned a growth centre in Queensland, but he has forgotton about that one, I think. But if he kept his promise it would mean that local call rates would apply to telephone calls made to Sydney and Melbourne from Albury-Wodonga. I agree that one of the biggest factors in discouraging decentralisation is the cost of trunk line telephone calls to branch factories and that sort of thing. But is the Prime Minister's promise of local call rates to be completely forgotten or is this to be made a provision in a subsequent BUI? I fear that it might be quietly forgotten. As I explained before, we wil not oppose the Bill but we have some reservations. We would like to see how this scheme operates before any other Bills of this nature are brought before the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Why was approval given to the Australian National Line to have two bulk carriers built overseas, in view of the fact that Australian shipyards are short of work. 
-The Australian Country Party does not oppose the passage of the Bill. It is mentioned that about 90 per cent of the land is acquired on a negotiating basis without having to go through the whole scheme of resumption. It is pointed out, too, that the limitations of the negotiators in a voluntary negotiation from the Government 's point of view are a long way out of date. This Bill is to bring the matter more up to date. For that reason, we do not oppose it. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General: Did the Postmaster-General approve of the instructions which were issued to all non-official postmasters ordering them not to give mail over the counter to the public on Saturday mornings? 
I ask a question of the Minister for the Media relating to an answer given by the Minister yesterday in response to a question by  Senator Milliner  concerning the completion of the seventh stage of television development in south-western Queensland. The Minister mentioned in his reply that the matter had been raised by  Mr Katter,  the Federal member for Kennedy. Is it not a fact that the matter has been raised also by  Mr Jim  Corbett, the member for Maranoa, as the stations mentioned fall within his electorate? 
I ask a question of the Minister for Primary Industry. I understand that the sugar agreement between Queensland and the Commonwealth expires on 30 June next. Can the Minister inform the Senate what action is being taken by his Department and the Commonwealth Government to renew this agreement? 
-On behalf of the Australian Country Party I indicate that we will support the amendment. This is a new Bill, and the same reason cannot be advanced as was advanced previously, namely, that we have had 3 months in which to consider it. We have not been able to consider it because it has not been debated previously, and it has not been defeated or otherwise dealt with in the Senate. There is all the more reason in this instance for being given time to consider the Bill and to go into the matter thoroughly before we agree to the Bill. 
I desire to say a few words on the AddressinReply to the Queen's Speech and to support the amendment. But first of all I should like to refer to the uncalled for and unwarranted attack on the Premier of Queensland by  Senator Milliner. 
It seems that my remarks have drawn a bit of an answer straight away. I think even  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned something - 
When the honourable senator opposite has finished I will make my speech.  Senator Milliner  accused the Premier of making political capital out of the recent disaster in Queensland by not recognising the role played by the Federal Government. That is entirely wrong and I refute the claim completely. The Premier has travelled the State continually since flooding commenced. Although most of the reference to flooding in Queensland refers to Foundation Day weekend when the Brisbane River was in such high flood, I remind the Senate that in some parts of Queensland flooding started a week before Christmas and that our Premier had made arrangements with the Federal Government for the use of helicopters. He gave credit to the Federal Government for the help it gave. On about 20 December he had helicopters working in the Gladstone and Rockhampton area rescuing people from rooftops. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator Keeffe,  if you have no contribution of your own to make during this debate you will let the honourable senator make his speech in silence. 
Helicopters were working in the south west areas of Queensland at the same time. Although the Premier visited areas in various electorates throughout the State, including Mt Isa, Cairns, Cook and Rockhampton, to mention a few, not one word of recognition or praise has been received from members of the Australian Labor Party. The Premier initiated a debate in the Queensland Parliament on Tuesday of last week during which he praised the Commonwealth Government. I quote from the Queensland Hansard report of this statement by the Premier on Tuesday: 
I wish to express, on behalf of Queenslanders, our gratitude to the people and governments in Australia and overseas who gave money and material to Queenslanders in need after the flood. I have criticised the Federal Government in the past when I have believed it was warranted- I undoubtedly will do so in the future. However, I also believe in giving thanks where thanks are due. I have done so to date and will restate it in this House to go on the record: The Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  other Commonwealth Ministers and their departments have not hesitated and their help has been most generous. I saw a remark the other day that the Federal Government was only doing what other Federal governments had done in the past. I think that is a grudging attitude and again express thanks on behalf of the Queensland people and government for both the financial assistance and the spirit of co-operation displayed by all levels of government involved. In this spirit the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council are agreed that people, not politics, are the paramount concern. I pay tribute to the work of the armed services and particularly to the Air Force pilots who flew in the worst possible weather and saved very many people from certain death. 
It should be noted that in the appeal for funds as apart from the joint governments assistance, the Queensland Government has given $500,000 and the Commonwealth Government $600,000. But I am informed that the Australian Labor Party City Council and the Lord Mayor provided nothing. Another claim has been made that the Queensland Government tried to claim credit for having given all the assistance. The Premier said in his speech on Tuesday: 
Attention was drawn to advertisements setting out where help is available. There was no intent to claim all credit and I have repeatedly publicly thanked the Commonwealth for its assistance. 
One has only to read the advertisements published in the Queensland Press which show where help is available to see that all those advertisements mention the joint effort by the Commonwealth and the State in this matter. I have mentioned that the Queensland floods did not last for about only a week. In fact, the serious part of the floods lasted for about 6 weeks. It is interesting to note that in the whole of that time our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on one of his brief visits to Australia, put in half an hour in Brisbane at night to look at the flood damage. I would like to point out also that when things were particularly bad in the north west of the State- in the Mt Isa area the railway line and the road have been completely washed out- and the Gulf country was flooded-  Mr Barnard  and  Dr Patterson  were on a trip to Darwin in a VIP plane. When they got to Mt Isa and realised how grim things were in that area, during the course of their refuelling stop there for about half an hour, they did manage to issue a lot of statements about what they were going to do and what should be done. But it was about 5 days too late. Another point disclosed by the floods in Queensland and New South Wales is the great difficulty in contacting any responsible authority in Canberra over the weekend. Apparently no Minister is rostered for duty over the weekend, as is the practice in most States, to handle any emergency that might arise. You have to telephone all over Australia to find a responsible Minister if you want something in a hurry such as the RAAF aircraft. It is very difficult to get this contact in Canberra. I hope that this matter will be remedied in the future and that somebody will be made available with whom the State governments, or somebody in authority in the States, can make contact in a time of emergency and get action straightaway instead of having to wait hours or even days. 
I want to refer to some of the matters mentioned in the amendment moved to the motion containing the Address-in-Reply to the Queen's Speech. Reference is made in the amendment to an attempt to change the federal system of the Australian Constitution by diminishing the responsibility of the States. That is something that my Party is very much against. My Party believes in a Federal system with strong States and we will not, if we can possibly avoid it, have any more centralisation of powers. This Government is committed to a centralist policy and has shown this in many respects. In the short time that it has been in power it has done all it can to weaken and destroy the authority of the States. It is doing many things that are of interest now. It has passed a Bill dealing with control of the seabed offshore which naturally is the subject of appeal at the present time. I noticed that  Her  Majesty the Queen said in her Speech that on the advice of her advisers in Westminster and Canberra she had decided to refer the appeal by the governments of Tasmania and Queensland to the High Court of Australia and not to the Privy Council as was the practice in the past. The Government has taken systematic action to endeavour to pass legislation in this Parliament, and by means other than legislation, to cut out appeals to the Privy Council and to cut our ties with Westminster. 
A census is being taken now about a proposed new national anthem and the Government very cleverly left out the existing national anthem from the list of possibilities because it would seem from public opinion polls taken throughout Australia that the present national anthem would win about 70 per cent of the popular vote if included in the contest. The Government also wants to change our flag but we have not yet been told exactly what is proposed. No doubt we will hear about it in the future. It is now pursuing a policy of centralisation. The proposed referenda are all aimed in that direction and at giving all power to Canberra. The Party I represent is definitely against that proposition. 
I want to refer briefly to rural industries and the communities which they support. In the middle of last year we received the report of the socalled Coombs task force, or think tank- I do not know what it is called these days- which recommended changes affecting in some way the rural industries or those people living outside the big centres of population. The report referred extensively to subsidies and to taxation incentives. The effect of that report is that people living outside the larger centres of population think that they are getting a raw deal from this Government. There is no doubt that they are,  Mr Deputy President.  The report affects rural areas firstly and directly but it will affect the whole of the Australian people. A decision has been made not to renew the superphosphate bounty and the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty at the end of this year. 
I would like to refer to some remarkable statements which were made by an unnamed Treasury official and quoted about a fortnight ago on a program broadcast by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I do not know why a top Treasury official should be in a position to make these statements. His first statement was that the users of superphosphate were getting that product at $25 or $30 a ton below world parity because that was what the Australian Government was paying the Nauru and Christmas Island producers. He said that the producers were being paid $27, 1 think it was, below world parity. I understand that the Moroccan price was quoted as world parity. He said that the Australian users were already that much better off; so why should they receive any more by way of subsidy. He also made the remarkable statement that more than half the superphosphate fertilizer purchased in Australia was used on pastures and not on crops, although the grass was unable to benefit from the use of superphosphate. I do not know who told him that or where he got that information from, but it can be refuted in every respect. I believe it is entirely wrong. The man who dealt with that aspect of fertilizers on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program was not slow to refute it and to point out where he was wrong. 
We in this country are witnessing a great upsurge in trade union dictation. We wonder whether the trade unions are running the country or whether the Government is doing so. In this regard I refer to the postal unions. The Post Office is going so far into the red that  Mr Slater,  who was to be a Senate candidate for Victoria, but has now retired from that position, has stated in a letter that the cost of posting an ordinary letter is to be increased to 10c in the next Budget. It will be a tremendous impost on the Australian people if they are required to pay 10c to put a stamp on a letter. I am afraid that many fewer letters will be posted. The Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  because of union pressure, said that throughout Australia there would be no Saturday household deliveries of mail in those cities in which such deliveries have been made. Not very long ago we had 2 mail deliveries on weekdays and one on Saturdays. Now we are down to one mail delivery a day, 5 days a week. On second thoughts, some of the union members are not too pleased about the situation because they will lose money by not working on Saturday mornings. 
After the Postmaster-General made the announcement regarding Saturday mail deliveries, the unions decided what they would then do, and they issued instructions that all official post offices throughout Australia would not open on Saturday mornings. How can a union dictate to the Government in relation to how mail deliveries are to be made, when post offices are to be open and what business is to be done? But the unions went further than that. An instruction was issued from the district postal offices to all the non-official post offices- that is the great bulk of the post offices in the smaller places where there are no household deliveries, which were to stay open on Saturday mornings- to the effect that the postmasters of these non-official post offices were not to hand out mail over the counter on 
Saturday mornings. I have seen that instruction. This has caused a lot of ill-feeling, because when a person goes into these smaller post offices he can see all the pigeon holes containing the mail. He can see whether there is mail in the particular pigeon hole in which his mail is kept. But he has to go back on the Monday to pick up any mail the post office is holding for him, and he may live some distance out of town. 
In addition, in many of the smaller areas of Australia the mail goes out on Friday nights; it has been an established custom over many years that the mail trains and other mail services go out on Friday nights. 
If a mail contractor goes out to serve the farms and station properties from a country post office he is not now allowed to get his mail on Saturday mornings. It cannot be sorted then and he cannot collect it until the Monday of the next week. Many people in country areas now have to miss out on all the weekend papers they have been in the habit of receiving for as long as they can remember. The people in the country towns will be the ones to suffer. 
This results from further union dictatorship in regard to what the Government can and cannot do. The Postmaster-General then got a bright idea for providing a service on Saturday mornings. I do not know what the service could be because only stamps and postal notes could have been sold. The service was to be provided in newspaper shops, chemist shops or other small stores. It was not long before the unions declared that if any of these small businesses took on this work for the Postmaster-General, several things would happen. Firstly, the unions would see to it that the shops concerned did not receive the supplies of stamps, postal notes and the raw materials necessary to do business with the public. The unions would also place a black ban on the businesses concerned. If their telephone services broke down, they would not be repaired. So after trying for a week or so to have the service accepted the Postmaster-General himself had to capitulate to the postal unions. In effect, the result today is that there is practically no business done by the non-official post offices that remain open. A questionnaire was sent out this week to see whether it is worth while to keep open the non-official post offices for 2 hours, from 9 a.m. to 1 1 a.m., on Saturday mornings. 
I should also like to refer to the telephone section of the Post Office. It is providing a good deal of the money to balance the losses in the mail section. The expansion in the telephone section, especially outside the bigger centres of population, seems to have broken down completely. Our Government, when it was in power, would construct the first 1 5 miles of a telephone service from a telephone exchange free of charge and maintain it in perpetuity. There would be a small fee for a service provided beyond that distance. lt is pretty hard to let private contractors build many of these telephone lines if they are to be connected to automatic exchanges because if the lines are not up to a certain standard, this affects the whole of the exchange. The present Government reduced the distance for which telephone lines would be provided free of charge from 15 miles to 5 miles or 8 kilometres from a telephone exchange. Any person within that distance from an exchange may have a telephone provided by the Department for the payment of $60. But when a person who is a little further away than 5 miles from the exchange applies to have a telephone installed, he is told that he may get it in 1976, 1977 or 1978. 
To take the position a little further, I know of a case involving a man who lives 14.4 kilometers from a telephone exchange that is to become automatic. A demand has been made for the payment of $2,080 to construct the telephone services to his house. He has been told that if he does not pay this amount of money, he will not even be considered for the installation of a telephone for 2 years, 3 years or more hence. In addition, he has to pay the same $60 connection fee that is paid by everyone else. 
-Exactly. What a penalty for those who by accident do not live within 5 miles of an exchange. They are not allowed to build their own telephone lines for the reasons that I have explained. The position now is that many of these people have to do without a telephone with the resultant loss of revenue to the Post Office. It is a severe penalty on persons in business, including farmers and graziers. Business people need a telephone to compete with others who have telephones. A telephone is absolutely vital also in the case of sickness or other emergency. So many of the country people still do not have adequate roads and at times of flood they just cannot get help. 
We are supposed to be having a booming economy at present. One of the paradoxes, one of the extraordinary things, is that in boom times, when we would think everything would be in abundant supply, we are having shortages of many essential goods. The Government reduced the tariff rates on overseas goods to try to bring more goods into Australia. The tariff reduction was supposed to reduce the price. We are told now that there has been no apparent reduction in price, despite the overall reduction in the tariff on a flat rate percentage. Many articles which are made in Australia are not obtainable. The articles are not being held from the market; they are simply not available. Many people have made exhaustive inquiries into the shortages. 
Foodstuffs, particularly canned foodstuffs, from many mid-European and eastern European countries have appeared on our shelves. I believe this would be to the detriment of the Australian manufacturers and canners of those particular foodstuffs. A rumour is getting around that in the next couple of months another very large increase will occur in the cost of foodstuffs and many other essential commodities. I think this is only natural. We hear of increased costs pretty well every day. I should like to refer also to minerals and energy and in particular the oil position in Australia. I do not think many Australians realise how lucky they were to have governments in the last 15 years or so that were prepared to give a substantial subsidy for oil search. As a result we went from the position of having no known natural oil of any commercial quantity in Australia to a point where we are about 70 per cent self-sufficient. What would be the position today if we were not 70 per cent self-sufficient in our oil supplies? If we had not discovered, through the foresight of the previous Government, this oil in various parts of Australia we would have been absolutely at the mercy of the Middle East oil companies as some other nations have found themselves. As a result we have been able to carry on without any big increase in price for our own oil. 
The position now is that apparently there is to be no more oil search subsidy. Nobody is willing to search without a bit of help. The rigs that were boring and searching for oil in Australia systematically are leaving to go to other places. Some are going to the North Sea and other areas where more encouragement is given. Our oil fields are not inexhaustible. They will cut out in the foreseeable future, but that is certainly a good way away yet. We must continue to encourage people to search for oil so that we will be at least 100 per cent self-sufficient and not gradually become more and more dependent upon imported oil. We will arrive at the position where no more oil search will be going on. As well as the rigs leaving Australia we are losing the know-how and expertise which is available generally all over the world for oil search. We must have experts help us in our search for oil. That is something that is not generally realised. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Before the sitting of the Senate was suspended for lunch I was mentioning the position in respect of our oil prospecting and oil supplies. I suggested that by the Government not continuing the oil subsidy we have been placed in the position of losing a lot of the expertise and know-how which we had in oil prospecting, losing the drilling rigs overseas and running the risk of being short of oil and energy in the foreseeable future. 
A matter which I mentioned earlier in my speech is the dictation by the trade unions as to how the Government shall run this country. In Brisbane the unions concerned are saying that a certain insurance building shall not be constructed. It so happens that the unions have picked on the Australian Mutual Provident Society. The attack on this organisation is apparently because it has refused to pay for flood damage under house insurance policies. 
What I was going to say- I say this in answer to  Senator Mulvihill-  is that the AMP is one of the biggest life assurance offices in Australia. It is a purely mutual company with no shareholders. It does not do very much business in house insurance. No doubt it does some. But this building is a big one. Perhaps one could understand an attack on a company which deals purely with that type of insurance. But why pick on the AMP which, as I say, is a mutual office with no shareholders seeking profits? This is not a case of attacking shareholders for getting profits. The unions are saying what buildings can be built, what buildings are to be pulled down or not pulled down and where there should be green belts. The unions also have introduced sanctions against foreign governments in regard to ships, planes and even mail coming to our shores. 
I believe that sooner or later there has to be a showdown as to who governs this country- the Commonwealth Government and the State governments or the trade unions. The trade unions claim to have a say in the way of life in this country. But others can play at this game. Other people might suddenly start to try to dictate. I do not believe it is right that a group of trade unions should dictate or attempt to dictate to established governments in this country. The sooner we have a showdown on this matter the better. We have had the spectacle of certain trade unions having an argument with France over atomic testing. Whatever the rights or wrongs of the case were at the time, one group of people should not be able to say whether mail from France comes in and goes out. These things are wrong. The other day an aeroplane from a South American country was blacklisted for a few days because a group of unions believed that that country was doing something of what they did not approve. Another matter I mentioned is found in the Queen's Speech. She stated: 
Legislation will be introduced to set up an Australian Land Commission to co-ordinate land acquisition programs throughout Australia. 
A little later the Queen stated: 
My Government will introduce legislation, as required, on the recommendations of committees of inquiry on Land Tenure and the National Estate. 
I wonder just what is hidden behind those 2 statements? Are we to have a massive acquisition and resumption of privately owned land throughout Australia to put it back under government ownership and control? I wonder whether that is the thinking behind those statements. If it is, I am very much concerned, because the Government could put that money into channels which would be much more beneficial to the people of this country. On Thursday night I noticed the apparent reluctance of honourable senators on the Government side to speak in the Address-in-Reply debate. I do not know the reason for their reluctance. From this side of the chamber we have had 2 speakers, one after the other. I wonder whether there will be any more Government speakers. 
I hope it is. I support the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition to the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty the Queen. 
My question, which I direct to the Attorney-General, concerns his statement to the media last week about telephone tapping, in which he is reported to have said that methods of interception are more advanced than the methods used for the prevention or detection of telephone tapping. Is it true that a special report on telecommunications security was delivered to  Senator Murphy  by the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists and the Postal Telecommunications Technicians Association of New South Wales in which they urged the Federal Government to establish, amongst other things, a special debugging squad to check out all telephones of parliamentarians and unions? What action has the Government taken to reduce or to eliminate illegal telephone tapping? 
I want to take the opportunity on the motion for the first reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1973-74 to refer to a couple of matters. Firstly, I would like to refer to some of the statements made by  Senator Poyser  earlier in this debate. I did not hear all he said, but I understand that he attacked Federation Insurance Ltd and attacked particularly the Victorian Branch of the Australian Country Party. Federation Insurance Ltd is an Australian owned and controlled insurance company. It is one of the few insurance companies in Australia that is entirely owned and controlled in Australia. It deals with many organisations, and the Victorian Branch of the Country Party happens to be one. I know also that it has agreements with other political organisations and many primary producer organisations such as wheat boards, wheat growers and other people of that type. It makes no secret whatever of its premium refunds; they are widely publicised. It carries on business all over Australia, and it saves on advertising and many other things. Many organisations insure with Federation Insurance Ltd, including some trade unions. Why do we not go a little further and look at the operations of the Australian Council of Trade Unions? It receives rebates from its major suppliers of goods, and much of this money passes as profits from the ACTU back to the Victorian Branch of the Australian Labor Party. We have no objection to an inquiry being held into Federation Insurance Ltd or any other insurance company, provided there is also an inquiry into Bourke's store, and why they receive such large discounts. An inquiry should be held also into the ACTU travel service which is trying to obtain discounts and rebates in order to provide cheap travel for its members. There is nothing wrong with that at all. But why should one organisation be attacked and no reference be made to the others? 
I want to refer also to the appropriation for the Postmaster-General's Department in this Appropriation Bill. Strange to say, the PostmasterGeneral's Department is not mentioned in this particular Appropriation Bill. I know that I will be told that it has a one line appropriation, that money can be transferred from one section of the Postmaster-General's Department to another without reference to the Parliament. One would think that there would be a very high wages content in that one line appropriation. Since the main purpose of this Appropriation Bill is to provide extra money for wages, one would think that the Postmaster-General's Department would figure a fair bit in this. 
I want to refer particularly to a couple of matters related to the Postmaster-General's Department. I refer, firstly, to its telephone services. When the previous government was in power we had quite a good policy in relation to country telephones: Fifteen miles of line was constructed free of charge and for distances more than that the line was constructed at a very cheap rate; and it was maintained in perpetuity. This had to be the case because of the high standard of line required for automatic telephone exchanges. Some progress was being made under the previous Government in providing services for those who, by their very occupation or the place in which they lived, whether it was by accident or otherwise, required a telephone service of their own. They were not like the people who had access to public telephones in the next street or a telephone in the neighbour's place. 
In Australia there is a very large number of telephone exchanges which operate on restricted hours. When one goes to other parts of the world and talks about one's telephone service being cut off at 6 p.m. or 8 p.m. and not starting again until 8 o'clock or 9 o'clock in the morning and a telephone service which finishes at midday on Saturday with no other service until Monday morning apart from possibly a short time on Sunday, one is just laughed at. One is not believed. People overseas do not believe that any place could be so backward as far as its telephone service is concerned. When we were in government we were beginning to get away from these restricted hours by putting in automatic telephone exchanges and by helping people with the construction of their telephone lines. It all came to an end with the change of Government. 
Has the Minister for the Media seen a report in today's Press that the Australian-owned Advertising Agencies Council is outraged at the granting of a government contract worth $ 1.25 m to an overseas owned agency? I ask: Were any or all of the 200 Australian agencies invited to make submissions to the Government? Does the appointment of the overseas owned agency comply with Labor Government policy? Does the Government consider that Australian agencies are not competent to educate Australians about their own Government? 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLANDShortly after this Government assumed office George Patterson Pty Ltd, an agency which has been doing work on behalf of a series of Commonwealth governments dating back to the days of the Chifley Labor Government, approached me with an idea for a creative campaign relating to aspects of the machinery of government. In turn, I mentioned the matter to the Prime Minister and to the Treasurer. It was subsequently decided to proceed with the campaign. Because George Patterson Pty Ltd had originated the idea, it was decided that that company should be responsible for and should be asked to do the creative work in that campaign. In other words, the Government's options were to accept the idea, to reject the idea or to steal it and give it to someone else. 
However, the honourable senator obviously is under a misapprehension. George Patterson Pty Ltd does not receive the $1-1 /4m. A contractual arrangement has not been entered into with that company. The simple fact is that all agency fees that are paid by the Government are pooled and distributed by an organisation known as the Australian Government Advertising Council. On that body, as a result of action taken by me to restructure it, there is a majority of Australian owned agencies. This was certainly not the case under the previous Government. An interesting point that I note is that the  Chairman  of the organisation known as AUSTAC,  Mr Cummings,  who is now critical of the Government in this regard, is one of 2 people whom I actually appointed to the Council after he was unsuccessful in a ballot for election to it. I say to the honourable senator and to the advertising industry that any agency is entitled to present creative ideas to the Government and certainly any ideas will be given full consideration. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Did the Postmaster-General approve of the instructions which have been issued to all non-official postmasters ordering them not to give out mail over the counter to the public on Saturday mornings. 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Can the Minister inform the Senate when the report of the commission of inquiry into Post Office matters is likely to be made available? 
Following a question asked by  Senator Townley  concerning Hobart airport, I desire to ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Transport concerning Brisbane airport, which I understand is programmed to have a lot of money spent on it. Can the Minister inform us as soon as possible of the plans for Brisbane airport and whether they include the building of a completely new runway or just some alteration of existing runways and buildings? 
I ask a question of the Attorney-General, ls it correct to say that because of his handling of the Attorney-General's portfolio, particularly in relation to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation raid, legislation brought before this House by him and his part in the covert approach to  Senator Gair,  the Attorney-General has been dropped from No. 1 position on the New South Wales Australian Labor Party Senate ticket and that his fellow supporter in Caucus,  Senator James  McClelland, has been dropped to No. 6 position? Does this reflect a lack of confidence by the Attorney-General 's colleagues in himself, or is it just symptomatic of the drift in the falling fortunes of the Australian Labor Party? 
I think the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations,  Senator Gietzelt,  has already explained that several inquiries are under way. Some have been completed. There is an important one in relation to the Auditor-General's report. As has been explained already, we felt that it would be unnecessary duplication if we carried out an indepth investigation at this stage. When the other inquiries are finished, when the reports are presented, we will have another look at the matter. If we believe that there are blank spots in our report to the Senate, we can look at them. We can co-ordinate all the reports of the different investigators, and in those circumstances I think that we can come up with a much more comprehensive report to the Senate. For that reason I support the report which has been presented by the  Chairman.  We ask the Senate to bear with us until more information is available so that we can table a comprehensive and complete report on all aspects of the references to us. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Lawrie)  adjourned. 
I wish to say only a few words on this legislation because I know that the hour is late. I commend the Government for the action it has taken in providing money to Queensland for flood relief purposes. I think that people are only just beginning to realise the extent of the disastrous floods in Queensland. We must pay a tribute to the people in the emergency services, the police and members of the Royal Australian Air Force who did such a wonderful job in rescuing people in many parts of Queensland. Houses simply disappeared in the cities of Brisbane and Ipswich and other cities. It will be a long and difficult job to re-house these people. The fishing town of Karumba on the Gulf of Carpentaria was almost destroyed by the floods. It will take a long time to get this town, which .is an important outpost in the southern part of the Gulf and which in normal times has a thriving fishing industry, back into order. 
Some of this money will be allocated for use in restoring public utilities and the railways in particular and the roads of Queensland have suffered greatly from flood damage. It will take a considerable time and. very large sums of money to restore them to the condition they were in before the floods. Many other things have been damaged. For instance, all the telephone services in the Brisbane area have not yet been restored. A great deal of work will be needed to get this service back to normal. One does not realise how many other things need to be done even weeks and weeks after the flood unless one has been involved. 1 could say more on this matter, but bearing in mind the late hour I would just like again to commend the Government for the action that it has taken. 
I direct a question to the Minister for the Media. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons for the delay in providing television coverage for some towns in western Queensland? Can he advise also when it is expected that the current program of establishing new television stations in western Queensland will be completed? 

 -Mr President, I have been getting up for nearly threequarters of an hour and have not received the call. Can I not get even one question asked? 
I will not detain the Senate for very long. I wish that the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  were present in the chamber tonight. I notified him that I intended to raise a matter concerning question time. When we were in Governfment no limitation was placed on the length of question time and the present Government senators were allowed to ask as many questions as they desired. Since honourable senators opposite have been in Government there has grown up the practice of limiting question time to about an hour. I have no objection to that, provided that every honourable senator who wants to ask one question is allowed to do so. On occasions some honourable senators have asked more than one question. Today question time was cut off after 50 minutes. Questions started at 2.40 p.m., which was 10 minutes after the Senate met at 2.30 p.m., and at 3.30 p.m. the Leader of the Government in the Senate asked that further questions be placed on the notice paper. Two or three honourable senators had not asked even one question. Are we to reach a situation in which the Government will gradually whittle down the length of question time? It was not even an hour today. I think that question time should run for at least an hour in order to give every honourable senator a chance to ask a question. What will happen if, after question time has run for 30 minutes, the Leader of the Government in the Senate asks that further questions be placed on the notice paper? What is there to hide? We were promised open government. We were promised the right to ask questions. What will happen if an honourable senator who wants to ask a question is not seen or called by the  President  to ask a question for two or three sitting days? If the length of question time is to be cut back, is there to be any order in which honourable senators are called to ask questions? What will happen if honourable senators who are not given the opportunity to ask a question one day do not receive priority the following day? What is to be the arrangement? I believe that this matter has to be considered. 
The subject of the question has nothing to do with it. Today I and several other senators wanted to ask questions, but question time was cut off after 50 minutes. That is my complaint. As I have said, I told the Leader of the Government in the Senate that I would be raising this matter tonight. I only wish that he were here to reply to what 1 have said. I believe that we should have another look at this matter in order to give honourable senators the opportunity to ask at least one question during question time. That is all I ask. I raise the matter in the hope that the Senate will take notice of it. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Agriculture in his capacity as Minister for Agriculture and as Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that many 
Australian meatworks are idle due to industrial disputes or industrial troubles, thus depriving the producers of livestock of their usual market outlets and causing them financial hardship? What action has the Federal Government taken to get the meatworks operating again? What action, if any, is the Government taking to find new markets to replace those lost when Great Britain joined the European Common Market and those which we appear to have lost in Japan? 
I desire to make a short contribution to the debate on the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973. Even though there has been a double dissolution of the Parliament and it has been claimed that the Government has some sort of a mandate to have this Bill passed, my opinion has not changed. The 20 per cent tolerance above or below the quotas for electorates of the House of Representatives of which mention has been made has been in operation since Federation- a period of over 70 years. It has not caused any great difficulties and it has not, to my way of thinking, caused any great injustices, as has been claimed by some of the speakers in the debate. It is proposed in this Bill to vary section 25 (2) (b) of the principal Act to provide that a redistribution may be directed whenever in one-fourth of the divisions of a State the number of electors differs from the quota by one-tenth, in lieu of one-fifth. At the rate our population trends change with patterns of growth in this country, we could have a redistribution in some States every 3 years, if the term of the Parliament runs that long. People would be very confused. They would not know which electorate they were in and they would not know who was their Federal member of Parliament. It would cost a lot of money and make for a lot of extra work. 
I would like to refer briefly to the position in the United Kingdom. We have heard the United Kingdom Parliament quoted as the Mother of Parliaments. Most democratic parliamentary institutions throughout the world are more or less patterned on the Westminster system in Great Britain. But what is the position in regard to electoral distribution at Westminster? Under the House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act of 1958 the constituency boundaries must be revised at intervals of not less than 7 years and not more than 15 years. There are some inequalities in the distribution but these are accepted as being fair since to change them would mean ignoring some of the natural unities of towns or cities or of areas unified by easy communications. In an electoral system where there are only single member constituencies these kinds of inequalities must be expected. 
I have here the complete list of electorates in the UK and the enrolments in those electorates. I would like to cite some of them. This is the latest list, taken from Whitaker's Almanac of 1974. The electorate of Ladywood has an enrolment of 18,884 persons; the electorate of Glasgow Central has enrolment of 20,309 persons; the electorate of Bedford South has an enrolment of 101,942 persons; and the electorate of Epping in Essex has an enrolment of 1 1 6,354 persons. So that is the pattern of democracy set by the Mother of Parliaments, which retains the principle of one vote, one value. It seems to be able to get away with such  differences in  the size of electorates. There are many electorates which have 30,000 voters and a few which have over 90,000 or 100,000 voters. I would like to cite the position in Canada. It has been given to us previously. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  went over there to look at the Canadian electoral system. He came back to Australia very enthusiastic about the Canadian system. Let me give the latest electoral enrolments in Canada; I presume that they are figures upon which the last election was fought. The electorate Laprairie in Quebec had an enrolment of 59,73 1 voters. The electorate of Dallard in Quebec had 59,219 voters. The electorate of Etobicoke in metropolitan Toronto had an enrolment of 71,562 voters. The electorate of York Scarborough had an enrolment of 79,786 voters. The we come to some other electorates such as Meadow Lake in Saskatchewan, with 25,700 electorates, Cor.degan on Prince Edward Island with 12,810 electors and another electorate in New Brunswick with 24,1 13 electors. Government senators speak of one vote one value. But the member for the Yukon in the Canadian Parliament has 7,559 electors on his roll and the member for the Northwest Territories has 13,807 electors. Is our system in Australia terribly wrong compared with those systems? 
I suggest that reducing the permissible variation in electorates from 20 per cent to 10 per cent is very unfair and will prove to be quite unworkable because of the enormous redistribution, the enormous changes that will have to be made in the electoral system and the great cost involved. 
I would also like to draw attention to some of the remarks of previous speakers. They have mentioned the principle of one vote, one value quite often. The principle of one vote, one value could at the best apply only to the House of 
Representatives if it could be brought into operation. Our founding fathers in Australia saw to it that the Senate had an equal number of senators from each State. Indeed, the value of a vote cast in Tasmania is worth more than the value of a vote cast in say, New South Wales- 
I do not know what the people of Tasmania think, but Tasmania came into the Federation only because of this protection to save it being swamped by sheer weight of numbers of the larger States. Is it not logical to apply this argument to the less populous areas of the States- the areas further away from the big centres of population? I refer also to some of the statements made in the Senate by  Senator Steele  Hall. He represents a State that has about half the voting strength of New South Wales or Victoria. Did he complain about that? Did he say that to be elected he should require as many votes as are required in New South Wales or Victoria to elect a senator? No. He was elected from South Australia with fewer than half the voting strength of New South Wales or Victoria. 
Well, why not be consistent? To cite the United States situation which has been mentioned several times by other honourable senators, the United States House of Representatives is elected by a quota system as nearly as possible equal in each State but the Senate has 2 senators from every State. Thus the State of Alaska has the same say in the United States Senate as the more populous States of California, New York State and others. The Hawaiian Islands also have 2 senators. I would like to refer also to the criticism that has been levelled at Queensland by several honourable senators and, more recently, by  Senator McAuliffe.  I can remember that the Labor Government not long ago when it was last in power in Queensland had a redistribution in which it gave considerable preference to the areas in the western part of the State. There were 10 seats of which the Labor Government held 9 with an enrolment of 4,000 voters. 
I did say it when he was here. Anyway, that Government had about 30 seats with an enrolment of 7,000 each in our State and 30 more in the Brisbane metropolitan area with an enrolment of 12,000 each. Is that not the principle that we are trying to support now, with a bigger tolerance for the less favoured areas of the State? This would enable people to have access to their member and to enable the member to service his electorate much more easily. He would not have to travel so much and would be able to visit the various parts of his electorate more often? If we get to this stage, which we suggest the Government is supporting, of every electorate having nearly the same number of electors, we will have the spectacle of many Australian electorates becoming like Kalgoorlie and covering the great bulk of the area of the State. No member can adequately represent such an area. It has been said that cows and trees are being represented. That is not the case. I think that we should stick to the 20 per cent tolerance- I am supporting that principle- and continue to have redistributions as we have had in the past. I am opposing this Bill, as I did before and I have stated my reasons. I hope that a majority of honourable senators will oppose it on this occasion. 
I ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Did the Labor Party claim in full page Press advertisements just prior to the May election that the Prime Minister had beaten inflation? If so, was that a false claim or is the present mere 16'/i per cent rate of inflation attributable to causes which have thrust themselves upon the economy only since the end of March this year? If the latter is true, does the Prime Minister still blame inflation on the previous Government as he did throughout 1973? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development: What is the present position regarding the Queensland-Commonwealth Sugar Agreement which expired on 30 June last? When is it expected that the agreement will be renewed and for what period? What special problems, if any, are holding up finalisation of the negotiations? 
I would like to say a few words about the 2 postal Bills that are presently before the Senate. It was interesting to listen to the previous  speaker, Senator Mcauliffe,  and hear the change of attitude of his Party over a comparatively few years.  Senator Durack  has pointed out that these Bills are part of a package deal- a mini-Budget, as it was called- and are supposed to curb inflation. But I would like to take honourable senators back to some of the events of May, June and September 1967 and to quote what was said by  Senator Murphy,  the present Leader of the Government in this place. On 12 May 1967, when speaking about the Post and Telegraph Rates Bill,  Senator Murphy  said: 
We are opposed to this Bill because it is opposed to the public interest. The measure is a means of indirect taxation . . . What is happening is that the Post Office is being treated as a tax collector. The charges which are being made- the increase in telephone charges, for instance  . . are a means of raising money. This is undoubtedly a way of taxing people because it is not necessary for the proper operation of the Post Office that these charges be made ... If this measure is carried, every time the telephone is lifted the people will be taxed; every time a letter is sent by an ordinary citizen he will be paying tax . . . The whole country is aware of the drastic increases in these fees for services- unnecessary increases in fees for services- so that the Government may avoid dealing with the financial morass into which it has got itself. 
The Government proposes to deal with its financial problems in the worst possible way, that is, by putting the burden on those who can least afford it. I refer to the ordinary citizens. 
Those remarks are a little different from what  Senator McAuliffe  said. He said that the burden was not on the ordinary citizens; it was on big business.  Senator Murphy  continued: 
For every letter that is posted there will be an extra charge. Charges for telephone calls are to be increased. The effects will be felt not only by the ordinary citizen but throughout industry. The increased charges will have to be passed on . . . The increased charges for letters, telegrams and telephones will mean that a severe impetus will be given to inflation in Australia. 
The increased charges proposed in this legislation are supposed to have been introduced in order to curb inflation. Further on  Senator Murphy  said: 
This is a bad method of finance which ought not be approved by the Senate. It certainly is not approved by the people of Australia. The Opposition is completely and utterly opposed to it. While the Labor Party is represented in this Senate it will use its powers and procedures without inhibition for the welfare of the people. 
As we know, there was a further sitting of the Parliament in June of that year in order to consider the motion to disallow the regulations which were designed to implement the proposed increased postal charges. The government at that time reintroduced the proposal in September of that year as part of the Budget. I should like to quote what  Senator Murphy  said on 19 September 1967. He said: 
We regard the persistence by the Government in the imposition of these charges as an act of political madness. 
Previously he had said: 
The Senate's power to oppose the legislation is undoubted, as is the Senate's right to oppose the legislation. No basis has been established for any suggestion that the Australian Labor Party would not, under any circumstances, oppose legislation of this character in the Senate. . . We take the same view as we did earlier this year- that is, that the proposed increases are unwarranted, and injurious to the community . . . But our attitude to the charges remains the same. We think they are a form of indirect taxation equivalent to an increase of about 5 per cent in personal income tax, and that they are grossly inflationary because they represent increases of about 25 per cent to 33% percent in general. 
On that day, 19 September 1967, we saw the extraordinary spectacle of the Australian Labor Party, probably for the only time in recent years, not being game to face up to its convictions. I have in front of me the names of the senators who voted in the 2 divisions which were called on that day. As the division bells were ringing the members of the Australian Labor Party walked out of the Senate and continued a big argument in the corridors. Those who were in this chamber at that time well remember what happened. We had the spectacle of 23 senators voting in favour of the Government's proposal to increase postal charges and 3 senators voting against it. The 3 senators who voted against it were former  Senator Gair,  former  Senator McManus  and former  Senator Turnbull.  It so happened- and I can remember the incident well- that  Senator McManus  was appointed as a teller. He went through the pantomime of looking under all the desks on the Opposition side to see where the members of the Labor Party were. He just shook his head; he could not understand it. That is what happened on that day. 
Now we are being asked to agree to pretty staggering and substantial increases in postal charges. This proposal is not pan of the Budget; it is being presented in anticipation of what might happen when the Budget is introduced in six or eight weeks. As the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  has pointed out in his speech, as accounts are not available for the financial year just concluded, the necessity for the increases is a bit difficult to assess. The Postmaster-General suggested that the Department might just about have broken even in the operations of its 2 sub-departments during the past financial year. The previous  speaker, Senator McAuliffe,  repeatedly referred to the proposition that those who use the services provided by the Post Office should pay for them. He spoke of budgeting for a $60m surplus, and he said many other things. He said that the services provided by the Post Office were underpriced The Postmaster-General's Department is a monopoly. It has no competitors; the law does not allow any competitors to operate. In the case of a monopoly which has no competition, it is almost impossible to tell whether the services which that monopoly provides are underpriced or overpriced. 
Other speakers have quoted extensively from the report of the Vernon Commission of Inquiry into the Australian Post Office. In its report the Commission discussed the question whether the Post Office was a business or a service. As I see it, if the Post Office is a business it has the added advantages of not paying income tax or any other tax such as shire rates or payroll tax which a private enterprise has to pay. The Government has imposed on the Postmaster-General's Department- and the Vernon Commission recommended that this should continue- the responsibility of using half its surplus to finance future expansion, that is, to pay for fixed assets in the future. If the Post Office is not a business, it will be very difficult to explain how it will arrive at a surplus. If the Post Office is just a plain service, the services it provides should be charged on the basis of the cost of the services. 
The telephone systems in the United States and in Canada are run by private enterprise, as distinct from the mail services which are run by the United States Post Office and the Canadian Post Office. Private enterprise, which runs the telephone system in those countries is not exempt from tax. Tariffs in the United States and Canada compare pretty favourably with our tariffs. The average number of telephone calls per person per year is 240 in Australia and in Britain it is 220, or a little less than in Australia. In the United States the figure is 830, and in Canada it is 780, which is a little less than in the U.S. I believe- and the report of the Vernon Commission referred to this fact- that if the cost of telephone calls were reduced in Australia it would result in many more calls being made by each person each year, which would result in more revenue. There is no way of telling what would be the saturation point of the existing telephone equipment in Australia, but I believe that because of the period in which the equipment seems to be idle in this country we are a good way short of saturation point and that the equipment could stand many more calls being made through it. If the fees for telephone calls were reduced probably a lot more revenue would be derived from telephone services. 
I turn now to the savage increase in telephone connection fees. It is said that the cost of telephone connection fees is to be increased in order to discourage people from applying for telephones. I do not know how this argument has been arrived at. We are told that about 105,000 people are on the waiting list for telephones. As I mentioned previously,  Senator McAuliffe  said that the services provided by the Post Office are underpriced but we cannot tell whether the telephone service which the Post Office provides is underpriced. When referring to service connection fees and telephone rentals the PostmasterGeneral in his speech said that it costs about $2,000 on average to connect a new telephone, and that the cost ranges from $ 1 ,600 in the capital cities to over $3,600 in country areas and even in excess of $9,000 in rural areas. I think that statement is a little unfair and a little unjust because the excess in rural areas could be less than that. We do not know the cost of a telephone service.  Senator McAuliffe  referred to the artificially high demand for telephones. If Australia can provide telephones at any sort of reasonable cost to the people it should do so. 
I wish to refer to another point. The Minister, in his second reading speech, claimed that a telephone and expenses in connection with a telephone are a tax deduction in a business. I think  Senator McAuliffe  referred to that point, too. We are arriving at the extraordinary position in which the Postmaster-General's Department is competing with the Treasury for revenue simply by charging the businessman more for his calls, for connection fees and for other telecommunications items. The Treasury would get a smaller amount of money because the businessman has so many deductions. It is a bit unusual when one government department gets in first to get the revenue before another government department gets it. 
I believe that uniform rentals for continuous service telephone exchanges are grossly unjust and unfair. There is certainly a need for a different scale for restricted hours exchanges. I instance the little telephone exchange miles from anywhere which has local calls to perhaps only 15 or 20 subscribers on the same exchange, and no other local calls. Each call apart from those is a trunk call. Compare that exchange with the big city exchange which probably has several hundred thousand calls available at the unit call fee. I believe that the increase in uniform rentals is grossly unfair. Services in smaller exchanges in the isolated areas are supposed to cost more, but why make it so unfair? Why charge subscribers this extra money when most of their calls are trunk calls? Their counterparts in the big cities have most of their calls at the local call rate. 
It is intriguing to note that a great claim has been made about increased social service benefits to pensioners. Today or tomorrow we are supposed to pass a Bill which provides an increase in pensions of $5 and $6 a week. This Government, through these new postal charges and telephone charges, will take $7 of that increase straight away. The Government will take from the pensioners more than the equivalent of about 10 days increase at the same time as the pensioners are getting the increase. 
-I will work that out for the honourable senator. The existing annual rental for pensioners is $36 per residence. The Government intends to increase that amount to $43 straight away. There is the $7 which the Government will take straight away from the increase in the pension. I think it is a little unusual to have this happening. That is what the Government is doing. 
We have not been told how the 2 corporations will be financed or how the finances will be kept separate after the division of the Post Office into 2 corporations. The telecommunications section, as has already been explained, because it is highly mechanised, shows a very good profit and is a very good investment, even at today's high interest rates. Because of automatic telephone exchanges it can pay its way. As has been shown, the postal section, because of its high labour content, operates at a loss. Up until now the surplus in one section has been cancelling out the loss in the other. What about the future? Will there be further increases in the cost of stamps? Will the cost of stamps rise repeatedly if the postal section is a separate corporation and if it has to keep its funds separate? Will that happen so that the corporation running the postal section can break nearly even? Will the surplus in the telecommunications section be used as an extension of government revenue or will it be used for further research and development of our telephone system and further expansion of automatic exchanges? Will there be a reduction in charges? Will there be a combination of both? What will happen? That has not been explained. There are quite a lot of problems attached to this. 
I sometimes wonder whether we might not be better off reverting to the days of Rowland Hill in 1840 and reducing the cost of stamps to1c. If we did, we probably would get nearly as much revenue. That point may be debatable, but it is something to ponder. As charges are increased, revenue tends to decline. This applies particularly to the telegram section. With the reduction in Post Office services on Saturday mornings, a telegram has to be sent before about 3 p.m. on Friday in one part of Australia if it is to have any chance of being delivered before Monday morning in another part of Australia. There are no deliveries on Saturday. Nothing is done on Sundays. The telegram section is providing a poor service at a greatly increased cost. The suggestion, in either the Minister's speech or the Vernon Commission's report- I do not know which- that each telegram costs the Post Office $1.50 seems to me to be incredible. You send a telegram. You pay 60c or 70c at least for it. If it is a big telegram you pay a lot more. It seems incredible that the Post Office cannot break even. Cheaper telegrams could mean a lot more of them being sent. 
At one time most of the bigger country offices had a little window somewhere at the telephone exchange, and a telegram could be sent at practically any time over the weekend. It was paid for at the window. Nearly all of that is a thing of the past. If one wants to send a telegram after Friday afternoon, one has to ring a big centre of population which, in many cases, means a trunk line call to the capital city. The telegram probably is not delivered until the Monday morning, anyhow. This is a retrograde step in service, and I think it accounts for some of the problems and some of the losses in the telegram section. 
No doubt the people who deliver telegrams on weekends would get paid overtime at the rate of time and a half or double time. I do not think that they are losers. They get days off during the week to compensate. 
Many problems have arisen in relation to bulk postage. It seems that the new charges will be pretty savage on some forms of bulk postage. In my home State many of the big art unions will be put out of business. They say that they will not be able to carry on. I think that matter should be looked at further. 
-I think the honourable senator got one. He would know. 
The honourable senator knows all about it. He got one. There would not be much difficulty finding out where it came from. I refer now to the new principle of standard sizes for letters. I did not miss it as  Senator McAuliffe  thought I did. This may be a good proposition. We are getting to something like the situation with airline luggage- provided that a letter is not larger than a certain size, that it will go through a slot in a piece of cardboard and that it is not too thick, it can be sent at the unit postage rate. But I think that the Post Office should have been more insistent on having only 2 different standard sizes of envelope. I know that a little envelope gets lost amongst the ordinary standard envelopes. It would have been sufficient to have a standard business size envelope and a standard foolscap size envelope. That would have simplified the system with the automatic sorting machines. 
I note from the Bills that the Post Office intends to enter into the courier business on its own account in order to compete with some of the courier businesses that have grown up in the big cities. I make just the one remark: It is marvellous to see what competition does in this game. When private enterprise went into the courier business, competing with the Post Office, the Post Office found that it was being left behind and that it had to get into the act itself. Another matter in the Postmaster-General's speech that is worthy of comment is the writing off of accumulated losses of the Post Office as at 30 June 1974. This will save the Post Office $ 1 7m in interest in a full year. It is very nice to write off a debt, but the debt is still there somewhere. I presume that somebody has to pay the interest on it. This is merely a subterfuge to pass on the cost to the general taxpayer instead of the Post Office. That may be good accounting but the fact remains that by writing off a debt you do not avoid the debt or the interest that is being paid on it. 
The proposed adjustments or alterations to telephone rates do not provide any relief for those people who find it necessary to make their homes some distance away from the bigger centres of population. This has been one of my grouches for a long time. Even the Vernon Committee report is strangely silent on this question. Many of these people in country areas are still on restricted hours exchanges and many more do not have a telephone and cannot obtain one in the foreseeable future. If a person happens to live near a line facility he may obtain a telephone service for a connection fee of $80. But if he lives further away it may cost $3,000, $4,000 or $5,000 to be connected to the telephone exchange. There are even cases where the cost has been quoted at $10,000 to $15,000. As I have mentioned before, the Vernon Committee report shows that there were 105,000 unsatisfied telephone applications and the average delay in connection for those unsatisfied numbers was only 2  Vi  months. That would appear to be grossly wrong. Many people have to wait for years. The present projection for telephone connections in some areas is at least 1980. This is in a country that is supposed to be keeping up with the times and is supposed to be modern. The previous Government was making provision for telephones for those types of people, but that has all gone by the board now. 
The honourable senator knows. He has received applications from them. Letters are sent anywhere in Australia for a standard rate. Even though the quoted cost of delivery per letter to some outlying places may vary up to over $ 1 , one still only puts a 7c or 9c stamp on the article. Why can the same principle not apply to telephones? We are supposed to be a Commonwealth. Every person should be able to share in the public facilities available. They should not be second class citizens because their vocation causes them to reside in a particular place. I have said a fair bit about this matter of charges. I think that honourable senators should support the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  for a deferment of these increases until the Budget. It will not make very much difference as the Budget will be presented in about 6 weeks or so. 
According to the Vernon Committee report a lot of things need to be tidied up. The letter delivery section of the Post Office in New South Wales has a very bad record. The report mentions particularly the Sydney Mail Exchange. I do not know whether anything more can be done to improve that situation but a lot of mail in 
Australia that has to go through Sydney is being held up. There are many things that could be improved in the Post Office. I think that we should have another good look at a lot of these charges and see whether, by giving better service, we can actually reduce some of them or delay the imposition of extra charges until the Budget. I support the amendment. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that New Zealand is buying wheat from the United States of America because imports of Australian wheat have encountered shipping difficulties? What are these shipping problems, and what attempts are being made to solve them? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security been drawn to the full page advertisements appearing in several papers offering hospital benefits of $1,000 per month, for varying premiums depending on age, by a Sydney company called Oak Insurance Ltd. I ask: Is this company registered under the National Health Act? Is the first two weeks in hospital covered by this company? Is this advertisement likely to mislead people? Is this company partly supported by Australian Industry Development Corporation funds and can the Minister give the Senate any other information about this company? 
-On behalf of the Australian Country Party I want to intimate that we do not propose to oppose the second reading of these Bills. But, like  Senator Withers,  we propose to move several amendments in the Committee stage. I would like to make a few general remarks on roads. Firstly, the Australian Country Party objects very strongly to a proposition which would give more control from and more centralisation in Canberra. We believe in a Federal system and not in a centralised system. The Bills before us tend to lead towards centralisation.  Senator Devitt  mentioned that the 3 tiers of government should be equal. He said that local government was just as important as federal government. I think that if these Bills are passed in their present form we will soon find out how wrong that statement will prove to be. 
I want to make a couple of remarks about allocations. The honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  has mentioned this in the other place. It has been mentioned several times already. Apparently in this matter there will be an attack on those living outside the big cities. We have already seen this in relation to the telephone system. Now we have it in relation to the allocation for rural roads which has been slashed from $248m or 3 1 per cent of the total, to $ 156m or 14 per cent of the total. This pattern continues through the whole allocation of money for roads. The previous Government had what it called the Commonwealth aid roads system which was a real help to shire councils. It enabled them to build many local roads in places where they would not have been constructed otherwise, and they would not have been built to the standard they are now. But these things apparently will go by the board because of the reduction in funds allocated and because of the inflationary situation. Less money is being allocated and a very much smaller amount of work will be done. 
We have before us a Bill which deals with planning and research. Apparently the control authority will be centred in Canberra. No doubt as time goes on it will be built up into a tremendous department. My experience is that each State has a very good planning and research section in its own main roads department, country roads board or whatever the term may be. My own State of Queensland has an excellent planning and research section. It has had to build roads from the driest parts of Queensland where there is a little rain at any time, to some of the wettest places in Australia. This section has had to learn to deal with all the problems attached to drainage and other things. Now we are to pass this over to a new department which is to grow up, I presume, here in Canberra. It will be duplicating work for some of the time. If I know anything, as time goes on it will endeavour to take over more and more of the planning and research in the different states. We are told that if a region in a State, or a State government, or a main roads department planning section decides it wants to build a road from A to B, Canberra might say: 'No, you have to build it from C to D'. Apparently because Canberra supplies the money it will be able to say where the road has to be built. 
The development of our highways and roads system in Australia has gone ahead as the motor car population has increased. We have seen already that long stretches of highway have hardly been completed before they have had to be rebuilt to a higher standard from end to end. In Queensland they are adopting roads standards now for 70 miles per hour- or whatever that is in kilometres- and constructing wider roads of a much better quality. There is a continuing expenditure on these matters throughout the State. In fact this applies in all the States. It is very hard to keep abreast of the rapidly increasing motor car traffic. For example, when the Bruce Highway from Brisbane to Cairns was completed nobody could envisage the amount of motor traffic which it carries today. This applies to other highways throughout Australia. Before the first section of the highway was completed they were starting to rebuild it and to widen it. We are getting 4-Iane and 6-lane highways in some sections. This is a pattern all over Australia where there is high density of traffic. 
I think the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator Devitt,  mentioned that there would not have to be a referral to Canberra for the States or the municipal councils to spend their own money. However, if one studies the Bill thoroughly, one finds that this is not quite the case; that in fact the Bill does make provision for referral to Canberra in many cases, such as for the purchase of machinery and the spending of money on different things. Such referral will occur, and once this power of referral is firmly established- from the States' point of view the referral of planning and research matters is probably the worst- it is my opinion that the centralisation process will build up and increase rapidly until the section which deals with these matters here in Canberra will become very large, requiring enormous buildings, the expenditure of large sums of money and all the other things that go with such great expansion of a department. 
I have made mention of arterial roads, and I gave reasons why shire councils will be in a much worse position when they do not have the money to spend on arterial roads. It would seem that expenditure on urban areas is not being cut at all and that they will have expended on them the full amount recommended in the report prepared by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. I just cannot see the wisdom or the logic in the Minister requesting the Bureau of Roads to report on the roads system of Australia and, when the Bureau puts in its report recommending the allocation of money for various roads in the various States, the Minister, or somebody advising the Minister, making these arbitrary cuts in expenditure in relation to some sections of road and probably actually increasing expenditure in relation to some other sections. 
-Senator Wright's comment would be exactly right; the Government just does not worry about country areas. I have already referred to the telephone set-up. Country people are not able to have telephones installed because there are fewer votes in the country areas. The Labor Party is absolutely an urban party. Later we will be dealing with other Bills which are concerned with urban transport and the building up of railways mainly in the big cities. The country areas will contribute to that expenditure also. I suggest that these Bills have to be amended so that some of the power is taken away from Canberra in an endeavour at least to keep our Federal system strong. We must not allow Canberra to become all powerful and take complete control. We want strong States and we do not want everything to be referred to Canberra. Despite what has been said, that is the story and that is what will happen. Even shire councils- municipal councils- will have to refer matters to Canberra for decision. We do not want that situation to arise, and it is to try to prevent that situation from arising that we intend to move certain amendments to the Bills when they are considered in Committee. That is my Party's attitude to these Bills. 
Further to my question yesterday to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, in his capacity as Minister  representing the Minister for Social Security, about a company known as the Oak Insurance Company, can the Minister give the Senate any further information on this company, as he suggested yesterday he might be able to do today? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Treasurer. Under what authority has the Reserve Bank of Australia changed the format of our bank notes by deleting the word 'Commonwealth' and amending some of the small print on the notes? Under the Act of the Imperial Parliament which set up the Commonwealth of Australia, it is provided that there shall be one indissoluble Commonwealth of Australia under that title. Is the present Commonwealth Government ashamed of the word Commonwealth', or is this action part of the Government's plan further to weaken the power of the States and to centralise all power in Canberra? Will the Government cause the new notes to be withdrawn and have the word 'Commonwealth' restored to all future note issues? 
I  present the following petition from 45 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a similar petition has already been read  I  do not propose to move that this petition be read. 
-Mr Temporary  Chairman,  are we dealing with the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill or the Papua New Guinea Bill first? Which one are we dealing with now? 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Does the Government's decision announced in the Budget to double the licence fees payable on radio transmitters cover the flying doctor service and School of the Air transmitters and all transceivers used by these organisations in the outback areas of Australia? 
I wish to state that the Australian Country Party does not oppose this Bill. Like the previous speaker, I would like to mention 2 or 3 small matters. First of all, I should like to refer to the matter of refunds. There has been a bit of confusion about this. I believe the post offices have been told not to collect any more licence fees but some people have complained that the post offices have not been told that the people who paid in advance will get a refund. Surely, in the telegram sent to the post offices telling them not to collect any more fees, they could have been advised to give refunds to those people who had paid their licence fees in advance. I have had several complaints and I have also seen several letters in the newspapers on this matter. 
There are a couple more problems. I refer to the people who have been booked in very recent weeks for not having a radio or television licence. I would like the Minister to state, if he can, the Government's policy on whether his Department intends to proceed with prosecutions of, say, a person who was booked the day or the week before the 17th of this month. I should like to know whether the Government intends to prosecute those people. 
There are lots of ways of looking at this particular question. In some cases I think serious consideration should be given to not proceeding with prosecutions. If the . licence fees for television and radio are to be dropped completely, consideration should be given to dropping prosecutions. Radio fees have come a long way in Australia since the very early days in Sydney and Melbourne. I remember that the radio station 2FC which was then owned and established by Farmer and Co. Ltd of Sydney sold sealed sets which could not be tuned in to any station but 2FC. I think when one bought a set one paid £5 for a licence but could only listen to the programs from 2FC. It was not long, of course, before sets that could be tuned to various stations were introduced and then the stations were licensed. At that time for 2 periods of about 5 years each the national program was allocated to a company called the Australian Broadcasting Co. In or about 1930 the present Australian Broadcasting Commission took over and carried on from there. We now have a new concept in broadcasting. We have new programs in radio and television, the introduction of coloured television and frequency modulation. The establishment of many new stations has been announced by the Government. 
I think one point has been missed. We are exempting the great bulk of the Australian people from paying radio and television fees. Up until this time the people who were out of the range of television and who would not have a receiver were not liable to pay a fee for a television licence. Those people who live in remote areas will now have to contribute through being general taxpayers. Many Australians will come into that category. Also, people in the big cities who have access to television but who do not want to buy a set will have to contribute, through general taxation, to the upkeep of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Up until now a person who was not a television viewer has not been liable to pay for a licence but under the new system, as part of a general taxpayer concept in Australia, he will have to contribute very directly to the cost of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's national television and to a lesser extent, radio stations. But apart from mentioning those considerations, as I said earlier, my Party does not oppose this Bill, 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Will the belated devaluation of the Australian dollar help to reduce the alarming level of unemployment as distinct from checking the rate of increase in unemployment? How long will it take for the benefits of devaluation to spread to the industries most seriously affected by the flood of imports caused by tariff cuts? 
-In his speech the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  referred to the Vernon Commission which was set up a few months ago to report on the whole activities of the Postmaster-General's Department. One of the recommendations of the Commission was that the 2 sections of the Post Office be divided into 2 statutory corporations. Beyond the appointment of a  chairman,  or whatever the temporary office is called, nothing appears to have been done. We are very interested in how the financial side will be divided, because the mail section has been run at a loss, or has not made very much profit, for a considerable number of years and the telephone, telegram and telegraph section has made a considerable profit. In view of the profit made by the telecommunications section, as it is called, we are wondering whether when the 2 sections are run separately that section will reduce its charges or whether there will be greater expansion and development through increased capital expenditure, thus making that section an even better business proposition than it is today. 
The Vernon Commission recommended that the increases in postal and other charges be made gradually. These 2 Bills provide, as has been mentioned, a 43 per cent increase in the basic postal rate, to 10c for a stamp. In the Post Office the sale of postage stamps is probably the greatest single unit of turnover. Although the 10c- a shilling in the old currency- might be a good round figure, it will certainly have a lot of publicity value, because each time a person licks a stamp and puts it on a letter he will realise who is charging him. He will blame the Government. No matter who is in government, people blame the government for an increase in postal charges and each time they post a letter they will blame the Government for the cost. This round figure of 10c is easier to calculate and work out than the 9c which the Senate was asked to approve in the last Bill. It is a far cry from the days of  Sir Rowland  Hill who about 130 years ago introduced the penny post. The service then was a much better service than the service which we have today. I wish to comment on the mail section. 
The honourable senator will have a chance to speak later on. Today our mail service is worse than it was at the time of Federation. I am not referring to the telephone and telecommunications section. This situation exists despite the introduction of air mail services which are supposed to mean faster delivery of mail. I have received complaints from people in many places that it is a worse and a slower service. The charges have gone up, and they are still going up. I believe that the rates for parcels and newspapers have become far too expensive. One of the worst features in recent months, mostly during this year, is the decision, not made by the Government or the Postmaster-General but by the unions, to close all the official post offices on Saturday mornings. No action has been taken to alter that situation, and apparently it is here to stay. This has had a considerable detrimental effect on the public. Apparently no mail sorting into post office boxes takes place anywhere in Australia on Saturday mornings. The small nonofficial post offices, for the most part, do not give out mail on Saturday mornings, although the mail has been sorted and put in pigeon-holes in many cases. 
Most of the set-up of the Post Office, which has developed over many years, has provided that mail from the big cities and bigger centres of population be delivered at the weekend so that people can read it or answer their correspondence or read the newspapers. The publication of weekly newspapers is designed so that they may be delivered some time on Friday. We now see the spectacle of that mail- letters, correspondence, weekly newspapers- not being available to the people to whom they are addressed until early in the next week. For people with a weekly service this means a full week's delay. It is the people outside the big cities and the big centres of population who suffer most because when they get their weekly newspapers the news is quite stale. In many cases the answers to their correspondence, which they could post by return mail, are delayed for anything up to a week. 
I believe that the Post Office should make more use of road transport for the cartage and delivery of our mail. We have found in recent weeks and months that for various reasons- the shortage of fuel lately and the lack of patronage- the train services which usually carry the mail have been severely curtailed in many parts of Australia. This means that a town or village in a country area or even a bigger centre which had a mail service by train which ran daily, bi-weekly, tri-weekly or whatever it might be, is sometimes down to a weekly train service. The Post Office has done nothing about delivering this mail by an alternative means of transport. I know that road transport does take mail to some areas, and it is a much improved service. Private enterprise has shown that it can make deliveries of morning newspapers- even roadside deliveries- up to 100 miles, or something like that, by breakfast time. But a train which is going in the same direction and leaving at approximately the same time and taking mail, plods along all day and when it reaches its terminal point in the late afternoon it is probably too late to sort and deliver the mail. Therefore, there is another 24-hour delay. If an existing system carries newspapers, surely tenders could be called and contracts entered into for the provision of a mail service in conjunction with that system. I know that I will be told that the Australian railways have a contract to carry mail, but this is subject to alteration from time to time. Not too much detail is spelled out, but I believe that the contract provides that a lump sum is paid to the railways of each State. 
Another matter that has upset a lot of people in recent times is the charge for re-addressing letters. I wonder who thought of that? Since there has been a mail service one has been able to go to a post office and fill in a form stating that one is changing one's address, either temporarily or permanently, and one's letters are re-addressed. There is surely not much work attached to that. Now if one wants to do that and one is going away for longer than a month, one must fill in another form. I understand that the charge is $3 a month. If one has gone to the seaside or on holiday or is changing one's address temporarily for any reason that charge must be paid for letters to be re-addressed. If one does not have much correspondence during that month, some of the letters will be expensive. 
I wish to refer to the downgrading of many official post offices to the non-official classification. I want to be fair about this matter. I have seen figures for some official post offices which I do not believe anybody could justify maintaining as such in view of the revenue they receive and the cost of running them. However, I do not think that situation applies generally. So there should not be a blanket decision to downgrade official post offices, as has happened. A post office, especially in country towns, is such an important institution and centre that some compromise should be worked out. 
I refer now to the telephone and telecommunications section of the Postmaster-General's Department. I understand that under a Government decision the Overseas Telecommunications Commission is to be included in a corporation which I think is to be called the Telecommunications Corporation. I only hope that if that is the case, and I may be wrong, it will not mean a blackout on overseas cable services during the weekends such as there is at present on our telegram service. I refer to local telegrams sent and received in Australia. In the PostmasterGeneral's Department of old, they used to have an advertisement which stated that sending a telegram was a good way to communicate and a reply-paid telegram was a courteous way of getting a quick reply. This service seems to have disappeared from the map now, because in effect the telegram service in Australia is dead from mid-afternoon on Friday until Monday morning. If a telegram is not dispatched by mid-afternoon on Friday it is not delivered until Monday morning. It could be delivered to a telephone number. 
Not so long ago telegraph offices in most of the big centres stayed open at weekends. Someone wishing to send a telegram could go to a little pigeon-hole at the telephone exchange and lodge it there. That service has gone. I believe that if for any reason someone wants to lodge a telegram at the weekend it has to be telephoned to a capital city office. He certainly does not pay the full trunk line rate for the call, but he has to pay a reduced trunk line call rate. Is it any wonder that telegram business in the Post Office has fallen off? In spite of this there is to be an increase in the rates for telegrams. In fact, I think that for a small telegram there is not much change left out of $ 1 under the new rates. 
Another thing about which I have always spoken is the restricted hours telephone exchanges. I regret to say that there are still a large number of telephone exchanges operating on restricted hours. The small automatic exchanges are not being installed fast enough. I have referred many times to the disability suffered by residents who are unfortunate enough to be connected to one of these exchanges. Many of the palliatives offered to these people, such as leaving a local number connected to the trunk line at weekends and at night time, are not much help. I have pointed out before the great disadvantage that this is for people living a little out of town or away from the exchange. 
More funds should be allocated to speed up the installation of the small automatic exchanges and more use should be made of what I understand are called remote controlled manual exchanges. When these were first tried they appeared to have many disabilities, but now most of the bugs seem to have been overcome. They appear to be working well and people on long lines are able to make use of a satisfactory continuous service. They did not have this before and they did not look like getting it for quite a considerable time. I believe that more use could be made of the radio telephone service. A chap not far from where I live has been battling for a long time to get a telephone. He has not been able to get one for various reasons, and this situation has gone on for several years. In desperation he got two radio licences and he has his own private radio set-up from his house in a big city to the station property to which he could not get the telephone extended. 
In speaking to these Bills I also want to refer to the increased rates for trunk line telephone calls. According to the Postmaster-General's second reading speech, there is to be a general increase of from 3 per cent to 5 per cent in the rates for trunk calls. I want to mention particularly the savage increase of 26 per cent in the charge for calls over a distance of more than 645 kilometres, or about 400 miles. This is defeating the object towards which we thought we were working at one time, of achieving standardisation for all trunk calls throughout Australia. This increase for calls over a greater distance than 400 miles will have a particularly savage effect on people in Queensland. In Queensland we have 400,000 people living more than 400 miles from Brisbane, our capital city. No other State approaches that measure of decentralisation. Consequently, apart from having to pay the increases on interstate calls or anything else to which the increases apply, those 400,000 people- no doubt many of them have telephones- will have to pay a 26 per cent increase for trunk line calls to Brisbane or other places beyond a distance of 400 miles. This would not apply in the other States. The only other State with a great number of people more than 400 miles from its capital city is New South Wales. 
The increase in telephone rentals, particularly those connected with smaller and more isolated exchanges, is the next thing I want to mention. The principle that has applied for a long while is that the rental on a telephone exchange was related to the number of people who could be called at the local telephone call rate. What is proposed now? All rentals are being standardised. Consider the case of a small exchange with maybe 10 or 20 subscribers who can make local telephone calls only to people in their own small group. Some such areas may have one or two other villages close by, but not too many. Practically every telephone call that those people make is a trunk line call. To compensate for that situation in the past they have been charged a reduced rental for their telephone. That situation is going by the board now and apparently those people are to be put in the same category as people in a capital city who have access to many thousands of other subscribers at the local call rate and who have very huie cause to make any trunk line calls. I believe that this is a very unjust situation. 
The new country lines policy has upset many people. As all honourable senators know, the Liberal-Country Party Government had agreed to build and maintain lines up to IS miles long. This Government has reduced the distance to 5 miles. It is demanding an exorbitant fee from prospective telephone users to meet the cost of constructing these lines. I have had people coming to me with bills for $2,000, $3,000, $4,000 or perhaps $5,000, and asking me whether they should pay them and wait two, three or more years before getting a telephone. I have advised them not to. As a result they do not get a telephone. There are other people in the area who will not get one either because the backlog of new services in rural areas is becoming even greater. I do not know what to tell people. I have checked up on the backlog and I know of people who have been waiting years. I have checked with departmental officials in these areas and they cannot tell me with any certainty in which year these people are likely to get their telephone or when there is any prospect of their getting the telephone. Unfortunately the PostmasterGeneral's Department is getting further behind in many of these areas. For many people the telephone is their only means of communication, but they just cannot get anywhere. 
The comment of the Minister in his second reading speech that the Senate had made it necessary, by its alleged delay of the passage of this measure when it was brought before us a few weeks back, for higher charges to be levied, is grossly unfair and unjust. This is a Budget measure and should not have been brought into this Senate in advance of the Budget because we had no idea at that time what the Budget would contain. May I say on behalf of my Party that the Opposition will allow these increased charges to go through as part of the Budget although it does not agree with a lot of them and will not make any promises as to what might happen in the future. I contrast this action with that taken a few years ago when the present Government was in opposition and the Australian Labor Party members of that day walked out of this Senate rather than stand up and be counted when a similar measure was brought in by the then government. We will not do anything like that and we will let this measure go through, but we will protest about it and criticise it. 
I hope that with the additional money the Post Office will have, particularly in the telephone section and possibly in the mail section, greater efforts will be made to improve services in the mail section and to catch up on the backlog in the installation of telephones so that we will not have a lot of disgruntled people around the countryside who live practically in sight of a telephone exchange but cannot get a telephone. This is pretty hard to live with and it is hard to justify and defend in any way. I have told people that I cannot do any more for them. The Post Office unfortunately is getting further behind with the installation of telephones in those areas. We can only hope that something will alter in the not too distant future. The Opposition will allow these measures to go through but that is as far as it will go- 
-I want to say a few words tonight on the Budget that was introduced 2 weeks ago. Firstly, I state that one of the most notable features of the Budget is that it could be called a leaky Budget. So many things leaked out before the Budget was presented that proved to be right. I think the Budget could be likened to the roof of this Parliament House which is very leaky when it rains. As I say, the Budget was introduced 2 weeks ago and to my way of thinking it is not a truly national Budget. It is not a properly balanced Budget between all sections of our community. It is a pro-urban Budget and it is too anti-rural. 
It is not nonsense. It is a fact. The Budget is designed to hasten the disintegration of our Federal system and to promote the domination of a centralist system from Canberra which will lead to the inevitable weakening of our State parliaments. 
No. There has been no real effort made to curb inflation. On the contrary. To my way of thinking, increasing the outflow of money by over 32 per cent in this Budget will have the very opposite effect to curbing inflation. 
The honourable senator will have his chance to make his speech. Another matter I want to refer to is that of devaluation. That was announced as an afterthought to the presentation of the Budget. That was a very leaky decision too because apparently a lot of people knew about it before it was announced. A Brisbane daily newspaper published the story in its early morning edition. The news was officially released at 6 a.m. Many other newspapers knew about it the night before. The London Stock Exchange knew about it also. The devaluation could be described as giving too little, too late. Very much as an afterthought, the Government decided to tell the New Zealand Government 2 hours after it made the decision. There was a hurried conference in the New Zealand Government which devalued its currency by 8 per cent. Ours is not a true devaluation in the sense that our currency will be allowed to float. If the Australian dollar had been allowed to float and find its own level, I suggest that the devaluation would be much more than 1 2 per cent. 
The position has arisen that overseas investors have lost confidence in the Australian dollar. Overseas investment in Australia has been severly discouraged through various actions of this Government. In fact, overseas investment in Australia has nearly ceased. This Government, through its policies early in its life to revalue the dollar and to reduce tariffs by 25 per cent, has caused a spate of imports including, I might mention, quite a lot of food items. It is causing our overseas balances to run down very quickly. Australian factories are either retrenching staff or closing down altogether. I believe that inflation can be curbed only by more production and a lowering of interest rates. There is too much differentiation between the urban dwellers and the rural sector in this nation. I believe that we are heading rapidly towards a position in which we will be a large importer of food. In the past, we have grown to greatness as a nation by being a large producer of food, of agricultural products, animal products and through mining. Our rural sector is being driven out of existence by the policies of this Government. 
Whilst dealing with the primary industries, I have some criticisms to offer of our Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt).  I believe that he is misleading the city dwellers about the actual prosperity or otherwise of the rural sector of our community. He is and has been telling the city dwellers that the rural sector is all right, except for one or two industries. He has mentioned the cattle industry. But he has said that the rural sector will have quite a good income this year. But he has not mentioned the reducing income of most primary industries or their rising costs. The Government has done a lot to damage the rural sector. Many things have been publicised already. There is the removal of the freight subsidy on petrol in rural areas. There is the removal of the subsidy on superphosphate. There is the stopping of payments for wheat which were to be made in August and there are several other matters. We know that the Australian Wheat Board could not raise enough capital to pay the growers. Because of shipping troubles and other transport troubles, the Board could not sell the wheat. Many people were committed to the expected advance of 20c per bushel which was to be paid by the Board in July or August and which has not even been paid in full now. We are told now that the Reserve Bank of Australia will no longer finance the Wheat Board. It will have to borrow on the public market at the normal borrowing rates. We know what that will cost and we know who will pay ultimately. It will be the wheat growing section of the primary industries. 
I do not think enough emphasis has been placed on the full implications of the removal of the petrol freight subsidy. It has been referred to as mainly affecting rural dwellers but it goes much further than that. It is going to affect the tourist industry and all those tied up with it. It is going to affect city people who want to travel around Australia. When they find that they have to pay nearly $1 a gallon for petrol in some places, as is the case now, it makes the trip pretty costly. 
As a result of the Coombs report, many allowances to primary industry have been discontinued. One has only to read about the numerous protest meetings around the countryside to realise how far offside is the Government with the rural sector of the economy. That does not just apply to primary producers. It applies to workers, businessmen and other residents in country towns. As a result of noises from the rural sector we now have a Green Paper which is a Government sponsored review of Federal rural policy. It remains to be seen what use will be made of this Green Paper. Government support for a floor price for wool is a big help to that industry. But if our rural industries are to be restored to some measure of prosperity and confidence, much rethinking of policies will have to be undertaken or many individuals will go to the wall. I would like to quote a comment on the Green Paper, Rural Policy in Australia, by John W. Longworth, reader in agricultural economics at the University of Queensland as follows: 
The Green Paper is not going to change the rules of the ball-game over-night. On the other hand, one could expect the refereeing to be of a higher standard in future. 
I would just like to comment briefly on the Government's much publicised national health scheme which was mentioned so much during the general election campaign and which was the subject of one of the double dissolution Bills. We do not seem to have progressed very far in this matter. In fact, the Government seems to be losing ground in relation to its proposed national health scheme. The cost of hospitalisation is now staggering. I saw a letter from the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)-  this does not refer only to private hospitals but also to public hospitals in many parts of Australia- which indicates that the cost per patient is approximately $1,000 a month. Very few people can afford hospitalisation on that level, despite the insurance company which has been advertising in the Press that it will pay $1,000 a month. One has to pay a fairly high premium for that cover. We have not heard much lately of the 1.35 percent of income tax being provided to finance this scheme. I do believe that a pilot scheme of socialised medicine is being instituted in the Australian Capital Territory. The implementation of this scheme in other parts of Australia will depend on how the Minister and his Department go in the Australian Capital Territory. 
I would like to mention, also, the proposed abolition of the means test. As honourable senators are aware, men receive the age pension at 65 and women receive it at 60 years of age. In its first year in office this Government completely abolished the means test for all people over 75 years of age. As women become eligible for the age pension 5 years earlier than men, why could not the Government abolish the means test for women over 70 years of age? We are told in the Budget Speech that next April the Government will abolish the means test for men and women over 70 years of age. Why could the Government not abolish it for women over 65 years of age? Why should there be this difference when women are paid the pension 5 years earlier than men? I think that point is worthy of consideration. 
I would like to refer to the Woodhouse report on national insurance. I believe that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  is in charge of matters pertaining to insurance.  Senator Wheeldon  went to New Zealand and made a statement there that he was going to introduce a national insurance scheme which would cost about $400m to administer in the first year of operation in Australia. When  Senator Wheeldon  returned from New Zealand there was a strange silence for some time. He denied some of the comments he was supposed to have made New Zealand. 
In the Budget Speech the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said that there would not be much expenditure this year on national insurance. Only a small amount would be spent on administration. He indicated that the scheme would be phased in gradually. In the Brisbane Press today the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation is reported as having said that the scheme is to cost $ 1,300m- that is for a full year, I presume- and is to be financed by a tax on petrol and wages. It is apparently to take over much of the compensation insurance that exists in Australia. I might mention that in Queensland a State Government office has a monopoly of workers' compensation. I presume that that will have to go. In other States private insurance companies handle workers' compensation insurance. We are told that legislation will be introduced during this session to deal with national insurance. We will no doubt get a lot more details when the Bill is introduced. I believe this is more of the grand plan of socialisation and the plan to drive private enterprise out of the insurance business. It will be interesting to note whether the plan will ultimately be extended to include all types of life insurance in Australia as a long range plan, 
Another point I would like to mention is the oil position in Australia. This is one of the most serious matters with which we have had to deal in the last few months. The unions working in the oil industry- in the refineries and the transport of oil- have discovered that they can completely control the industrial life of Australia by their actions. We are told they have a master plan to keep down reserves of petrol and distillate and oils used for moving vehicles to about one week or 10 days' supply. We have had the spectacle of our Navy, our Air Force and our Army, having to defer or cancel manoeuvres. Not long ago we were told that the Army was going to have manoeuvres in Broken Hill but they had to be cancelled because the New South Wales Railways did not have enough fuel to take the troops to that area. We had the spectacle also at one stage, I believe, of only one naval boat being able to put to sea. The rest were tied up at Sydney partly through lack of fuel and partly through industrial disputes. The Royal Australian Air Force had aeroplanes stranded in Darwin. We are told that nearly all our Fills are still grounded in Darwin. They literally have not a feather to fly with- or a gallon of fuel to fly with. 
That is right-no oil and no feathers. It is bad enough having these conditions. We should take no pride in telling the world about it. The situation I have mentioned led to a cartoon in one of the large newspapers. The caption read: 'Please, no invasion for the time being. We haven't got any fuel.' I am told that the Sydney-Melbourne passenger trains through lack of fuel have reduced their normal services to about half. I have certainly seen evidence of the shortage of fuel in Queensland. I read in the Press yesterday that there is no petrol in Tamworth in northern New South Wales. We had a spectacle of the harvesting of sugar being made possible only by the borrowing of naval fuel from Cairns. It probably has not been replaced yet. Part of this is due to the prospecting subsidy being discontinued by this Government. If it were not for the foresight of the previous Government which provided an oil prospecting subsidy resulting in the discovery of enough oil in and around Australia to make us 70 to 80 per cent self-sufficient in oil, we would have been on petrol rationing when the Arab nations embarrassed other countries by refusing to supply oil. The position now is that the present Government has decided to do the prospecting for oil itself. I do not know where it is prospecting because we are told that most of the deep well oil drilling rigs have left Australia and have gone to the North Sea and other places. 
We had an arrangement when we were in government for a gas pipeline to be built by private enterprise from the gas fields of South Australia to the southern capitals. This Government said: 'It looks like a good thing; we will do it ourselves'. The scheme has not got under way very far yet and we do not know what the gas will cost when it gets to the users in these places. 

 - Senator Poyser will have his opportunity to make his speech later on. We have this spectacle now of private enterprise versus Government construction and Government enterprise. The Government enterprise under the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has got nowhere. We have had a good bit of Federal Government interference in mining in various States. 
I believe too that Australia should plan very early- I have advocated this for a good while- to make use of its own steel and coking coal to a greater extent by having 2 steel works, one in Western Australia near the iron ore deposists and the other in Queensland near the coking coal, and running a shuttle service of coal and iron ore from each to  the other so that 2 steel works can be kepi going and we can make a larger quantity of our own steel. This would be quite feasible. 
It is interesting to note that the Treasurer in his Budget Speech reverted to 2 rates of income tax, one of 10 per cent on property income and the other a lesser rate on income from personal exertionsomething which the previous Government abandoned about 20 years ago. These new provisions did not stay long- less than a fortnight or so- after the Budget Speech. Caucus has reversed that decision or amended it by saying that it will exempt from the surcharge incomes of up to $5,000 and after that income will be taxed at the full rate. That means that on income of up to $5,000 there will not be a 10 per cent surcharge. 
The Government is relying on inflation to produce more tax and for that reason it has no real desire to curb inflation. I would like to refer briefly to the capital gains tax in respect of which I noticed that there was a mistake in the Treasurer's Speech. He included the Netherlands as a country which has a capital gains tax. I am informed on very good authority that there is no capital gains tax in the Netherlands. 
There will be a lot of confusion about this capital gains tax and the full impact will not be felt for some time, probably not for several years. It is interesting to note that the matrimonial home valued at up to $35,000 will be released from death duties if it is left to the surviving spouse. However, apparently it will be subject to capital gains tax. We have not been told to the contrary; so the widow in many cases, instead of paying death duties, could be up for sizeable capital gains tax on the valuation of the home because the fact of death is counted as transmission or sale of the property. Any reduction in income tax in this Budget for those in the lower income bracket will be very much an illusion. I intended to refer in this speech to matters affecting the Postmaster-General's Department but these matters had a pretty good airing last week and I will not cover them again. 

 Senator LAWRIE They certainly needed it. I think that a lot of people today when they buy a 10c stamp to post a letter are thinking about the Government which introduced these charges. 
I would like to comment now on the savage increase in fees for radio transmission licences. This increase applies to' ham radio operators, small ships and many others. The increase in fees, particularly for amateur radio operators, or hams as they are called, is very unfair. They are not operating in a very big way but they do come to the help of the nation in a national emergency such as a fire and flood. They do it willingly and are a great help. 
Some consideration should be given to those people in regard to this increase in licence fees. There has been a tremendous increase in expenditure in the Budget on education right throughout Australia but I would like to refer to only one aspect of the education provisions and that is the reduction in the tax allowance from $400 to $150 a child. We are told that this is going to affect only the people whose children attend rich schools. 
I do not think that the honourable senator, who has been so persistently interjecting, has been around the country much otherwise he would realise that there are children of people on wages who have to be sent away to schools. They live too far away for them to be sent to a high school or primary school every day and these children have either to board in town or go to a boarding school. 
There is no allowance for children living away from home to go to school except this taxation allowance, and that is what I am talking about. Even to buy uniforms and books for the children of workers who live in town makes a hole in $ 1 50. A lot of parents know that and I think that it will react very much against the Government and its supporters. 
There has been a big alteration in the road funds made available to the States through the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  He did not accept the recommendation of the national roads commission. There has been a big reclassification of roads. We have in Queensland 2 national highways that will be built with Commonwealth funds solely but some of the other more important highways have been reclassified as rural development roads. The mileage has been doubled and the money made available has been halved. Two roads in Queensland- one from the Townsville area to Mount Isa and the other from the Rockhampton area to Longreach- which are not all sealed yet, have  been very much downgraded. 
If the interjectors have ceased I will complete what I was saying. The reclassification of these roads has been a big set back for the Queensland Government  Mr Jones  threatened this Senate that if it interfered with the road Bill- this was during the sitting in July- he would withdraw the money altogether. The Senate did interfere with it and he compromised on one little item. He wanted some say in the big city freeways. Beyond that he agreed to all the Senate amendments. What he wanted the Senate to agree to was an arrangement under which if any country shire wanted to buy even a wheelbarrow, a grader or something like that out of its own funds it would have to refer the matter to some designated authority in Canberra to get a ' yea ' or ' nay '. 

 - Senator, that is what we were told. Today I saw on television that the Minister plans to take over as many highways in Australia as he can. He has said that he will make another offer to the State governments to take over the railways. It is obvious that the Government plans the complete socialisation of transport with administration centred in Canberra. This is the plan for the future, the grand scheme to socialise everything, as far as it can be done, from a central control in Canberra. An amendment has been moved to the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget papers. I support the amendment and hope that the Senate will see fit to carry it. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral a question. Can the Postmaster-General indicate whether farm telephones are considered private or business telephones by his Department? In view of the fact that rental for business telephones has increased considerably more than that for private telephones, will the Minister clarify this matter as it is important to all rural producers? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. In the recent increase in pensions, why was the blind pensioner's allowance of $6 a fortnight reduced to $3 a fortnight, which had the effect of giving blind pensioners an increase of only $7 a fortnight when all other pensioners received an increase of $10 a fortnight? In view of the great disabilities suffered by the blind, will the Minister urgently take action to see that this allowance is restored without delay and thus give justice to these pensioners? 

 -Mr President, my Party does not oppose the Australian Tourist Commission Bill. Possibly we have some little misgivings about it in the sense that we would not like to see the Australian Tourist Commission grow to have an absolute monopoly in the tourist field to the exclusion of the existing State and local authority organisations and private people who promote tourism in various parts of Australia. The Commonwealth Banks Bill is designed to enable the Commonwealth Development Bank to provide finance for tourist facilities. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech said: 
Most operators in the industry seeking development finance are experiencing difficulty in obtaining new funds on satisfactory terms, particularly for smaller undertakings in remote areas, and the proposed legislation is designed to help alleviate these problems. 
We think that that is very commendable and should be encouraged. But I should like the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to elaborate a little on the following passage which appears in the second reading speech: 
The amendment to section 72 will also empower the Development Bank to provide advice and assistance to tourist enterprises. 
Does this mean that the Bank will set up a new department for the purpose of providing advice? I presume that the assistance will be financial assistance as well as other assistance. Subject to that, we have no opposition to the Bill and we support it. But I should like a little explanation of that point. 
I  present 8 petitions, identical in wording and from 5, 6, 11,15, 19, 23, 26 and 27 citizens of Australia in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974, would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording and from 20, 23 and 92 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That in modern society which accepts divorce, the Law of Divorce should be fair to both parties. However we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself, and all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not provide or protect the legal or social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Agriculture. Was any Australian Meat Board member present at the conference on meat held last week in Washington? If not, why not? 
I present 6 petitions, identical in wording, from 2, 6, 8, 12, 13 and 23 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That in modern society which accepts divorce, the Law of Divorce should be fair to both parties. However we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the 'Family Law Bill 1974.' 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself, and all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not provide or protect the legal or social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian Society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I  present the following petition from 1 8 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of 12 months separation. 
All family matters must come out of the legal system. 
There must be no lawyers- no courts- and especially- no judges. 
DLRA's proposals must be considered for the new divorce laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where marriages are made. 
Guidelines to be established by mediators (non lawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint custody and mutual financial support of children where possible. 
Child endowment to provide financial support of children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary civil matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of agreement should incur legal process and the Family Law Bill used as a last resort, with family courts for enforcement only. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 1959. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether the talks starting today with the Prime Minister of Japan will include the matter of Australian meat exports to Japan. Will it be pointed out to our visitor that the depressed state of our meat industry could affect the sale of Japanese products, including cars, in Australia? 
-Will the Minister for Agriculture consider including canned meat in the aid which the Government proposes to give to nations which are short of food? In Australia at present meat is so cheap that considerable amounts could be provided for these countries. A scheme such as this could help the Australian producers to dispose of some of their surplus production and perhaps to build up markets when conditions return to normal. 
I present 4 petitions, identical in wording, and from 5, 16, 20 and 46 citizens of Australia, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That in modern society which accepts divorce, the Law of Divorce should be fair to both parties. However we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the "Family Law Bill 1974." 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the Institution of Marriage itself, and ALL existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does NOT provide or protect the legal or social rights of Women and Children in the family. 
The said Bill does NOT provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken PRIOR to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian Society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. What are the objectives and aims of the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress? What are the amount and sources of finances available to the Congress? Who are the office bearers, and how long have they held office? What remuneration and allowances do they receive? Will the Minister supply details of expenditure and receipts of the Central Australian Aboriginal Congress? Lastly, how often does the Congress have an executive meeting, how often does it have a general meeting, and how many have attended each meeting held to date? When and where were these meetings held? 
I  would like to say a few brief words about the Postmaster-General's Department. I want particularly to refer to the people who cannot get a continuous telephone service and people who cannot get a telephone. I was told, as appears at page 228 of the report of the proceedings of Estimates Committee F, that the number of small automatic exchanges to be installed in Queensland has been stepped up from 9 a year to about 12 a year. I was told also, as appears in another part of the report, that in Queensland there are still 330 non-continuous telephone exchanges. It is a simple matter to work out that if the rate of installation of automatic exchanges in Queensland is not stepped up people there will have to wait until the year 2000 or thereafter before they can get a 24 hour a day telephone service.  Mr Chairman,  I do not believe that it is good enough in 1974 that we have to wait at least 27 years, according to the Department's calculations, before getting continuous services. 
There are a lot of people who cannot even get a telephone. They are not allowed to build their own telephone lines but have to provide money for departmental lines built by the Department. In many cases the cost is prohibitive. Those are two of the things I would like to touch on. The departmental officials who appeared before Estimates Committee F were most co-operative and answered questions as best as they could. However the position is that the Department does not have the money or the facilities and a lot of people in Australia will have to wait a long time for a telephone or for a continuous telephone service. When the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  replies I would like him to tell the Senate what will be the position when the 2 proposed statutory corporations are established, probably some time in the next year or so. Will there be single line estimates for them? Will they have to account to Senate estimates committees for their expenditure, or will they be like some of the other statutory corporations we have in Australia and be outside the control of the estimates committees? 
There are a couple of other things that concern me considerably. One of them is Saturday morning postal business. Business on Saturday looks to be a thing of the past although we have heard of a proposal to provide services on 2 Saturdays before Christmas. I do not know how it is to be worked. 
Those are some of the things that concern me a little in the set-up of the Postmaster-General's Department so far as our telecommunications and postal systems are concerned. Also, will the Minister tell us how the new courier service is going? I notice that he made an amended estimate and said that it will cost $900,000 for the balance of this year in order to enter into competition, at least in the city areas, with private enterprise. I would like an answer to those questions. 
My question, which I ask of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is: Has the Prime Minister been requested to hold an urgent Premiers Conference on the economy? If so, does this indicate that the Premiers are far from happy with the new financial measures which were announced this week? Has the Prime Minister agreed to the Conference? 
I present the following petition from 22 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself, that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months; that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1,530 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information. 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice. 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats. 
So therefore all these things must be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a National Referendum or Senate or Federal Election for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to say a few words about this States Grants (Aboriginal Assistance) Bill because it affects Queensland. I support the remarks of  Senator Rae  and the amendment he has moved. I am afraid that in the course of my remarks I will be a little critical of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh).  He certainly is doing his best under difficult circumstances but I believe his choice of advisers as to the Queensland position has not been good. He has been ill advised on many subjects and I will refer to them in the course of my remarks.  Senator Cavanagh  has taken $3,190,000 off the vote for Queensland under this Bill. He has stated that he cannot get the Queensland Premier and the Queensland Minister concerned to discuss matters with him. The Premier of Queensland has advised this Government, I believe on a Premier to Prime Minister level, that his Government is absolutely opposed to handing over any of the land reservations in Queensland because- I have been told that he has said this- it would lead to a State within a State and he will not have that. Otherwise the Queensland authorities have never refused to discuss matters with  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister. 
The Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs,  Mr Hewitt,  has never refused to meet anybody. 
I have known  Mr Hewitt  for many years and I am sure he would not refuse to meet  Senator Cavanagh. Senator Cavanagh  visited Queensland not so long ago. He went to a so-called conference at Weipa. Just before that he brought in this Bill. 
-Senator Keeffe had his say a little while ago and I will have mine now.  Senator Cavanagh  made this visit just after he introduced this Bill into the House. I want to quote a question and answer which appear in the Hansard report of the Queensland Parliament for Wednesday, 23 October 1974.  Mr Ahern  asked the Queensland Minister for Conservation,  Mr Hewitt,  the following question: 
Has he seen Press reports indicating a cut-back in funds from the Commonwealth Government to Queensland for Aboriginal welfare? 
What will be the effects of this decision on Aborigines? 
The following answer was given: 
and (2) I am aware of the reports and also have seen the Bill, the States Grants Aboriginal Assistance Act 1974 introduced by  Senator Cavanagh  last week which provides for a payment to Queensland in 1 974-75 of $ 10,362,000. 
In his Budget the Treasurer provided an amount of $13,552,000 so that in effect  Senator Cavanagh  proposes reducing Queensland's allocation by $3,190,000 in spite of commitments in writing given by him and his Department as well as consultation at officer level which indicated the amount as being for housing for Queensland 's Aborigines. 
Although, even based on the Commonwealth census figures, Queensland has at least 34.58 per cent of Australia's total Aboriginal people,  Senator Cavanagh  is reducing allocation of moneys on their behalf to only 25 .4 per cent of the total. 
I am greatly concerned over this action by  Senator Cavanagh  as it has now become necessary for me to have my Department carry out an exhaustive investigation of total fundings which at this stage appears to require a drastic reduction in the housing programme activity which must be disastrous not only for the building industry generally in the State, but as well dash the hopes of so many Queensland Aborigines for an early relief of their housing problems. 
On the other hand, we have the Federal Minister for Housing  (Mr Johnson)  at the weekend stating he was very worried at the low commencement rate for new buildings in Queensland, yet at the time he must have been fully aware of this action by  Senator Cavanagh  which can only contribute to further chaos in the building industry. 
It is futile for the  Senator to  claim that he proposes reallocating the money so that Queensland 's Aborigines will not be disadvantaged when he is fully aware that his Bill reallocates the amount to other Slates and also that during the past financial year his Department underspent by $9m in the housing section alone, as indicated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech. 
I feel, therefore, I must emphasize to honourable members that any further unemployment or slump in the building industry in Queensland will be the direct responsibility of the Federal Government. 
I can only assume that his reducing funds is based on a desire to retard the improvements and developments in Aboriginal welfare in this State which so significantly highlight the failures in the Northern Territory and other areas under direct Federal influences and policies which have been admitted as disasters. 
The previous  speaker, Senator Keeffe,  mentioned Old Mapoon. I do not think that he stated the facts correctly. Mapoon was finally abandoned. It was not a departmental settlement, except at the very end. It was run by the Presbyterian Church. The population kept dwindling, and when the Presbyterians could not obtain any more missionaries to run the place the Department took it over for a little while and then decided to abandon the settlement. 
-Old Mapoon. The soil there is unsuitable for gardens or for growing anything. There is a lack of water supply in the dry times. The underground water supply has such a high bacteria count as to be almost unusable. The available water is polluted. In the wet time when the river ran, in the previous settlement it ran through the latrines, the kitchen and the dining room. Consequently, there was a high incidence of disease. There was a 25 per cent incidence of hookworm, the highest in Australia. About 10 years ago the Queensland Director-General of Health inspected the area and condemned it utterly. There has been talk about the people being removed at gunpoint. This is absolutely wrong. I am informed that when the last few people were taken away the only guns in evidence belonged to a couple of the old men who took their fowls, dogs and everything with them. The guns had been used for hunting. Statements have been published- I do not know to whom they are attributed- to the effect that the site was cleared for bauxite mining. That is not quite right either, because the Queensland Government has reserved an area up and down the coast and to a certain extent inland which, as an Aboriginal reserve, cannot ever be used for rnining. It is not available to the rnining companies. It is not part of their lease. 
-I beg to differ. There is a story about burning down the huts. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Milliner)-  Order! No point of order is involved. I think that the honourable senator is referring to copious notes. At the same time I think that the honourable senator should adhere to the Standing Orders. 
I am not even reading from copious notes. I am using as notes a few words on a page. 
The honourable senator may read it if he likes. I will give it to him. As I was saying, the position with regard to the buildings on this settlement being burnt down is that after the people had left the place and eventually had gone further north a few of them were sent back to clean up the rubbish. They did a few days work there. They burnt the rubbish. Some of the original shacks are still standing. What is more, for  Senator Keeffe  's benefit the 
Queensland Government built a holiday home for residents of Old Mapoon so that they could come back and stay there, for fishing and hunting or for sentimental reasons if they wanted to. It was hardly ever used. 
I can make up my mind. After  Senator Cavanagh's  conference at Weipa- I do not know how many were present there- one newspaper report said 'Blacks will defy State over land'. 
It was the 'Courier-Mail' of Friday, 1 November. 
At page 9. It contains a quotation from the statement which was apparently made to  Senator Cavanagh  by a  Mrs Jean  Jimmy, an original Mapoon resident. She is supposed to be one of those going back there.  Senator Cavanagh  did not investigate the health position or the other conditions that I have mentioned. According to the Press reports he has agreed to give the people more transport and some camping gear to start another settlement in this unsuitable spot. In case  Senator Cavanagh  wants further information on the position I will quote from a letter from Reverend G. L. Filmer of St Paul's Presbyterian Church, Gordonvale. He was the last missionary in Old Mapoon. Amongst other things, he wrote: 
The only wrong thing with moving Mapoon is that it was not done ten or fifteen years ago. Most of natives who were there 6 years ago were reasonably educated- they could read, write, handle currency, owned motor boats, horses, radios, rifles and all spoke English. They could live in a town as well as any white man (which has been amply proven) and the impression gained will be that such folk ought not to be on a reserve at all. 
It is a reasonable thing however for an uninformed person to ask, ' Why not let the people stay on their original place? ' 
The Presbyterian Church and the Queensland Government would have been only too happy to do this, only for the fact that the old site of Mapoon is less than worthless- in fact it was a constant liability. The site is on an exposed peninsula; the whole terrain consists of deep drifts of sterile sand which is very hard to cultivate without the addition of huge quantities of humus and water. The sand causes buildings to topple, blows into every nook and cranny under the pressure of high winds, penetrates stationary engines, ruins the mechanisms of vehicles and causes eye troubles among the children. 
The area is impregnated with hookworm, resulting in anaemia and low  resistence  to illness. Plagues of mosquitoes are frequent. I have been all over Queensland and have not seen the flies worse anywhere. Anyone who has been told that Mapoon is a good place has been gravely misinformed,  and it is small wonder that during the 10 years from 1950 to 1 960 there were no fewer than 7 superintendents. 
He is Reverend G. L. Filmer. He is in charge of St Paul's Presbyterian Church at Gordonvale. It was mentioned as part of the Weipa story that, according to the Minister's informants, conditions at Normanton were not good. Not long ago  Mr Dexter,  who is the senior officer in  Senator Cavanagh  's Department, and  Dr Coombs  visited Normanton. I think that they made a report about it. I do not know whether it was a written report. They agreed that conditions in Normanton were pretty good. 
-I will try to find the date for the Minister. The report was made and a limit was put on the number of houses that could be built each year in Normanton. When I was last in Normanton- not too long ago- I saw the type of houses that the Queensland Government is building for the aboriginals there on the high ground near the old railway station. They are proud of these cottages. They have plenty of room, a good water supply and room for gardens. At the present rate if they can only get enough money to build these houses- not have it cut off- they will have the whole problem at Normanton under control. 
I do not know about that. I am talking about the visit of  Senator Cavanagh  to Weipa- the week before last, I think it was. I should like to quote again from a rather lengthy answer from the Queensland Hansard of 31 October. A question was addressed to  Mr Hewitt,  as the Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs. The question was: 
1 ) Is he aware of the present visit of  Senator Cavanagh  to Weipa? 
What is the nature of the visit and is it causing further disruption and unrest among Aborigines? 

 - Mr Crunchen asked the question on behalf of  Mr Ahern.  The answer was as follows: 
1 ) and (2) From Press reports and a telegram two days ago from  Senator Cavanagh,  I understand that he is visiting Weipa at the end of calls at a number of other centres. There is no doubt that the visit is designed primarily to endeavour to create unrest and disharmony amongst Aboriginal people, and I would forecast also for party political purposes in view of the election, but especially as a result of a particularly vitriolic attack on him and his department by a group of Aborigines in North Queensland. I have a copy of the message sent to him, but at this stage must respect the privacy of those who told him they have no trust in him or his department. 1 am sure that the whole exercise is most embarrassing to  Senator Cavanagh  and must have been aggravated by yesterday's efforts in Canberra when the people his department has been financially sponsoring for so long, finally turned upon their masters. I very much regret having to foreshadow his intent as I have at all times endeavoured to encourage both the Commonwealth Government and others to refrain using Aborigines as political 'footballs' and political pawns'. My information on the so-called Weipa conference conveys that it is a determined attempt by radical people in North Queensland, as a result of manipulation by Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs' officers and others, to create distrust and unrest amongst former residents of Mapoon. The vast majority of these people over many years have established themselves in conventional urban society in many towns in Queensland and are raising families of whom anyone could be proud. The Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs through its various agencies, has gathered together numbers of the former residents from Silkwood, Townsville, Cairns, Normanton and other northern centres.  Senator Cavanagh,  with an entourage of Canberra officers, is visiting Weipa today in a VIP aircraft, but also there have been at least three special aircraft charters, at public expense, including a DC3, to convey people from Cairns, Normanton and northern centres. There is no doubt that a preliminary meeting at Weipa yesterday, under the chairmanship of  Mr Joe  McGuinnes of Cairns, who is well known for his radical left-wing attitudes, is nothing more than designed to tear at the heartstrings and the emotions of such people, who are well adjusted, and are bringing up their children as normal and conventional Queenslanders. 
It can do nothing more than create further emotional and family disruption and probably destroy the painstaking work of years on the part of the families, the Presbyterian Church and my Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs, who have done all possible to assist in the transitional stage of urban living which the people voluntarily undertook. 1 can only express my extreme sorrow that a Minister of the Crown would be associated with such a project. There is no doubt in my mind that the whole exercise is a deliberate attempt designed to force upon Queensland's citizens, the recommendations of the Woodward Report in the Northern Territory and the objectives of the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs, which are to create black' States inhabited only by Aboriginal people in an apartheid situation, to the overall detriment primarily of the people themselves and secondly Australia as a nation. I must emphasize that the site of the former Mapoon Mission has been preserved by the State Government as a holiday area and people encouraged to visit there from time to time as they would wish and numbers have done so. I have no doubt that the majority of the former Mapoon people are wise enough to see through the obvious manoeuvres of this diabolical attempt to subvert them from being citizens of Queensland and Australia and reject it with the contempt it deserves. 1 am informed that last night at Normanton, the Minister's response to a simple request by the local authority (the Carpentaria Shire Council) for a few thousand dollars to improve the water supply, to permit extension of services to more Aboriginal homes was a threat to virtually annihilate the town by fostering a separate 'village' of Aboriginal people. Surely apartheid in the extreme! Yet at the same time, he must be aware that his department's secretary,  Mr 13.  Dexter, and the  chairman  of his Advisory council,  Dr H.  C. Coombs, have stated that the rehousing program for Aboriginal people at Normanton is more than satisfactory and proceeding at a rate within the absorption capacity of the 
Aboriginal people and the town itself. After his tour of the west and visits to some selected centres, including border camps of refugees from his Northern Territory policies which he himself has described as a national disaster, he claims neglect and underspending. Until he became Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, he probably was never out of a city or into the spinifex and seen Aborigines in real life. I must refute such allegtions by this despicable dealer in despair of his own creation. The facts are that contrary to his claims, his own actions have virtually condemned hundreds of families to despair by his diverting to other States more than three million dollars, allocated by the Commonwealth Treasurer to Queensland in his budget. Surely he will recall his approval of one million dollars, as advised in the following telegram of March 22:- 'Your telegram re housing funds stop Minister has just approved of your being authorised to undertake additional commitments up to one million dollars during current financial year against additional funds of this amount being included in next years allocation stop This course being adopted because release of additional funds now would require appropriation by Parliament and would take time stop If however you have savings on other sections which could be utilised for housing this could be authorised with ministerial approval stop Should you favour this course as well please provide details.' He further gives the lie to his words of underspending by his own letter of May 26, 1974, which reads: '. . . I refer to your letter of May 1 1974 detailing the anticipated carry-over of funds as at June 30, 1974 and recommending a further commitment against the 1974-75 program of $1,271,000 to be used to continue the housing program. I am now pleased to inform you that I have approved a further commitment, making a total of $2,271,000 of additional funds available to continue the 1973- 74 housing program. My department will adjust the 1974- 75 request to include the additional commitment . . . ' How can anyone have confidence in a Government comprised of such persons! I am sure honourable members would be interested in hearing the attitude of a number of Aborigines as conveyed in a telegram on October 22 to  Senator Cavanagh,  a copy of which has been made available to me:- '. . . So far you have done nothing to help Mapoon people except promises stop. 
Yesterday police and DAIA threatened Jerry Hudson in Weipa not to return to Mapoon stop Transport is needed now supplies are needed now stop We are busting our guts to keep supplies going to keep police and DAIA away from Mapoon while your useless mistrusted office 'boys' in Cairns write you false reports stop In our books you are just as bad for your braggadocio false promises and time-wasting tactics while the people with the guts are now being threatened and intimidated and you have the gall to say you are waiting and considering a further report stop Just where do you stand? If you stand at all stop Whose side are you on anyway? You shot your mouth off saying you would fund Mapoon as soon as people moved back stop They trusted you and your promises but you have let them down very convincingly stop You have had one month to put your money where your mouth is but again you have failed miserably stop Meeting must be held in Weipa or Mapoon where the real people are where the action is taking place stop Restrictive boycott with the Press and TV and the people will be put on any such meeting in Cairns stop Also this meeting must be organised by one of our North Queensland representatives who is trusted by the people not Grimwade nor Wallace stop Give us Joe McGuinness to organise this meeting stop We won't accept any other of your stooges stop By the way we used our own money for this telegram. ' A report just to hand from Cunnamulla advises many complaints from the Aboriginal people there about the visit of  Senator Cavanagh  and more particularly members of his party, who invaded their homes and their privacy for photographic purposes without prior permission or approval. A petition of objection has been delivered to the department's officer who says the people are particularly irate over the photographing of a young lad standing outside a toilet door. They consider this a gross invasion of personal privacy and are seeking legal advice on possible action against the offenders. I sympathise with the people of Cunnamulla who have been subjected to such intolerable circumstances as a result of the Senator's visit and can assure them that whatever action my department can take to redress their wrongs will be readily available. 

 Senator Cavanagh has made a statement that he intends, amongst other things, to try to throw open the Queensland reserves to any Aboriginals who care to go to them. I think that he is a little out of touch with the Aboriginal councils which run these reserves. He is not fully conversant with the position. I have been to Palm Island and to other reserves. I have met the members of the councils who have been elected by the people in a democratic ballot. One thing that the Aboriginal people want to keep is this permit system which allows people to come to the reserves only with a permit. 
I will take the position on Palm Island. There is accommodation for about 1,200 people there. All the facilities are there for that number of people. If the reserve were thrown open to Aboriginal visitors from all over Queensland and elsewhere I am sure that as it is such an ideal place to live the population on the Island would probably double in a short time. What would be the position then? The houses would be overcrowded and there would be many other problems. There would be more people than the water supply, power and other services could cope with. I think that  Senator Cavanagh  should respect the wishes of the elected councils regarding this matter of the permit system. Whatever he thinks about other things, about the reserves and about what the Queensland Government has done- he has the right to his opinion on those matters- he should respect the wishes of the local people regarding this matter of the permit system. Every Aboriginal and Torres Strait Island reserve in the State has its elected council. Most of the councils are pretty well run. They have asked that this permit system should be continued. They have asked for a few other things. I think the Queensland Government will give them some of the other things they have requested. They want 3 laws changed, but certainly not the permit system. 
I should like to refer to one other matter. Probably it does not directly concern this question, but it concerns the question of grants for Queensland. We know that communication is not good between the Torres Strait Islands. The whole area is studded with reefs, and there are other problems. The matter of communication  between the other Torres Strait Islands and the base at Thursday Island has been looked at for a good while. The Queensland, authorities have come to the conclusion that the most suitable means of communication would be to build strips for light aircraft on the islands which are big enough, which have enough level land and which have suitable materials. The question of a hovercraft, which has received some publicity lately, has been considered. Apparently  Senator Cavanagh  has decided to introduce a pilot scheme using a hovercraft. I do not know whether he has actually ordered a fairly large sized hovercraft to communicate rapidly with these islands. 
I do not know how a hovercraft will operate over the coral reefs that are to be found just on the waterline. There will have to be fairly good navigators. But one matter has not been mentioned, and I know it well. At certain periods of the year the Fly River, which runs out of Papua New Guinea into the Bay of Papua, brings down enormous quantities of rubbish including big logs. The logs are difficult to see because they float just on the waterline. They float right across Torres Strait into Queensland waters. I have seen them in Thursday Island harbour and when making trips to Horn Island to get a plane. I have seen the men who run the ferry for a distance of about 2 miles have to cut back their engine to one-half or one-third speed in order to try to dodge these logs in Thursday Island harbour. I would hate to think what would happen to a hovercraft if it hit these logs. 
I have my doubts about that. 
I have seen them in the English Channel and in other parts of the world. I believe one operates in Sydney Harbour. 
The ones that I have seen in the English Channel are. I only hope that there will be no accidents with some of these marine hazards in Torres Strait. If something hits one of these reefs or logs or other obstacles, I only hope that there will not be any fatalities or anybody seriously injured. I make it quite clear that I am not opposing the provision of money for Aboriginal housing and for the other things covered by this Bill. All I am saying is that there is not enough money for Queensland. It has been cut back unjustly and unnecessarily. 
And in breach of faith. We have the position where the Queensland Government is obviously spending all this money, despite what  Senator Keeffe  said about the Queensland Government being behind in its spending, and it will now have to cut back on Aboriginal housing to the detriment of the Aboriginal people. During the hearings of Estimates Committee G we were told that there were 29 building societies in Queensland run by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders, but apparently they have not yet got off the ground. It will be some time before they are in a position to build a substantial number of houses. Even if  Senator Cavanagh  refunds this amount of $3,190,000 to those organisations, he will not get many houses built in the 7 months between now and 30 June next year. I recommend that he reconsider this matter and get the Queensland Government to continue its housing program at a greater rate. As has been pointed out, Queensland has one-third of the total number of Aborigines in Australia, and the Queensland Government has been housing Aborigines pretty well in many areas which I know pretty well. I hope that  Senator Cavanagh  will reconsider this matter and give the money to the Queensland Government if it can show that it can get on and build these houses. I just want to state quite clearly that we want to see that we get the money for housing for Aborigines. We are not against the legislation in any way at all. I hope that  Senator Cavanagh  will get some better advice from some of his Queensland advisers or else change his advisers so that we can get on with the job of housing the Aborigines in my State. 
I ask a question of the Postmaster-General. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether it is possible to provide telephone services for people in inland areas of Australia at a cost of about $60 a telephone as stated by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in Queensland? If this is a practical proposition how soon can a start be made on the installation of telephones in outback areas? 
-I desire to say a few words about the Family Law Bill. In doing so I will not detain the Senate for very long. One of the main things I want to say is that I support the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. The family is the basis of our society. It has been for a very long time if not right throughout the ages. Although this Parliament has always had the power under the Constitution to make laws with respect to marriage and divorce and all the other things that go with marriage and divorce nearly 60 years elapsed before any government was- I do not know how to put it- game to take on the knotty, thorny problem of making a common law for divorce, marriage and all the other things that go with divorce and marriage for the whole of Australia 
I am not going to say that I oppose this Bill completely. I think that some measure of change is necessary. Change has to take place from time to time, but it is possible that not as much change as has been stated in this Bill has to take place on this occasion. One of the matters which has been raised in this respect is the question of whether it should be said that there has been an irretrievable breakdown of a marriage after a separation of one year. It may be that in some cases that period could be too short and in others it could be too long. For example, a person committing adultery could go on and on and nothing could be done about it until the year has expired. Today such a person could apply for a divorce straight away. 
The weekend before last, I think it was, there was a 'Four Corners' program dealing with this Bill. It showed so-called extras acting out a story. I do not think that they acted out very well the story that they were trying to get across. The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  took part in the program at particular times. The program also dealt with many other things. In the last few weeks petitions for and against this Bill have been presented in this chamber from all over Australia. I do not know how many of them have been organised. I should imagine that some of them were a spontaneous reaction. No doubt some of them have been organised by both those for the Bill and those against the Bill. Some of the petitioners have told us that they do not want the Bill and some have said that they want it passed as it is. 
As has been pointed out already, this is the second or third version that we have had of this Bill. Many amendments have been made to it. I think that it could be likened to the Budget situation in that we have had 3 Budgets recently and we have had 3 different versions of this Bill. I do not know how many more there will be before the Bill is finally passed in some form or another or defeated, whatever the ultimate result will be. After two or three amendments have been made to the Bill we have now had an indication that another 92 amendments are to be moved. 
-I thank  Senator Cotton  for the correction. Many of them are certainly the result of the recommendations of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs following its examination of this matter. Despite what has been said about the Bill the Attorney-General has not completely adopted those amendments. I have looked through some of them and noticed that words are sought to be changed here and there, which will cause a lot of debate. But the AttorneyGeneral has substantially adopted them, I will say that much. Today we have had an indication from the Attorney-General that another twelve or fourteen amendments will be moved and just a few minutes ago a 2-page document containing about 20 suggested amendments to be moved by certain honourable senators on both sides of the chamber was circulated. What is going to happen before the Bill is finally passed? At the rate at which we are going we could have another thirty or forty amendments presented after another adjournment. 
That proves quite conclusively that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment should be accepted and that we should delay further consideration of this Bill for a matter of about eight or ten weeks- that is all it is going to be- in order to give the people of Australia a chance to look at the new amendments and see what they are about. It is obvious from the number of petitions received that the people are stirred up about this matter. Therefore they and the various authorities should be given a chance to look at the new amendments. As somebody has suggested, we could refer the Bill to a select committee of the Senate and let it have a look at it and make a complete report on it. 
We have to have more advice on some of the amendments. Some of them have been brought forward only tonight. Their acceptance would change completely some of the Parts of the Bill. I believe that we should not rush this Bill through the Senate. It has already been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, as I have said, but many more amendments have since been proposed. I cannot see why an attempt is being made to rush this Bill through this House. I do not believe that there is any possibility of it getting through the other House before Christmas. So why not wait and give it our final consideration early in the New Year. Why not wait until then to see how many amendments we can agree to or otherwise and get it through then? I cannot see a Bill which is supposed to involve a conscience vote being gagged or guillotined through the other place, although I am not sure whether that will not happen. Again I ask: Why the rush? 
We have been talking about the ease of marriage. Marriage should be made a bit harder or there should be a bit more pre-marriage conselling and things like that of people who want to get married. We have heard of the Gretna Green marriages in which a chap struck an anvil and that was about all that was necessary in those days. I believe that if we do not watch out we will arrive at a position in this country- this happens in some other countries of the world today- in which a man who desires a divorce has only to go out into the street and say to his wife: 'I divorce thee. I divorce thee. I divorce thee.', to be divorced. We do not want that here. We do not want to happen in this country things such as  Senator Sheil  has described in relation to China where, if the whole system of marriage has broken down completely, the children are taken away and kept in an institution so that the mother can go back to work because she has to do a good deal more than half the work to let the menfolk fight in the services and suchlike. This Bill is supposed to make it easier for custody of children to be obtained, which I do not believe it does, and for the settlement of property. I believe that even that part will be harder. Again I ask: Why the hurry? Let us support  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment and have further consideration of this matter deferred for about 10 weeks. 
In view of the Prime Minister's declaration in May that inflation was on the downturn and would drop to 8 per cent by the end of the year, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Does the present inflation rate of nearly 30 per cent prove that the Prime Minister was deliberately deceiving the electors? Or, does it prove, in the light of his current statement, that inflation and unemployment will worsen in the next few months and that he is merely inconsistent and incompetent in economic matters? Has the Prime Minister considered cancelling his European visit so that he can remain at home and guide Australia through the tough months he tells us to expect? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development inform the Senate of any proposed sugar deal with Japan involving 600,000 tonnes a year for 5 years as mentioned in this morning's Press. Can the Minister give the Senate any further particulars of this deal? 
-The first of these 3 Bills now before the Senate to which I want to refer is the one concerning the Bundaberg irrigation scheme. This scheme was started some years ago by a Liberal-Country Party government to remove the possibility of drought occurring in the area. It was an attempt to make the area as drought-proof as possible. A considerable sum of money was provided by the previous Government for the commencement of this irrigation scheme. It was to be handled in 2 stages. The one that this Bill refers to is the conclusion of phase 1 of the scheme. A good deal of the work has been done. The dam on the Kolan River is just about finished. A channel has to go to the Gin Gin area and eventually a pumping station is to be constructed to take water into the Burnett River. For various reasons, particularly escalating costs, the amount of money originally provided has fallen short by a considerable sum. The Queensland Government asked some time ago for an additional $4.4m to complete this scheme, but in the meantime a further escalation of costs has taken place and that amount may not be enough to complete the scheme. Additional funds may be needed to complete phase 1 of this scheme. 
As was pointed out when similar Bills were introduced some years ago, the Bundaberg area is well established. It is a large centre of population. It is mainly a cane growing area but some parts of the surrounding district suffer considerably in times of drought and cane yields vary considerably from year to year. When this irrigation scheme is completed it will overcome much of the difficulties that we have had in the past with the variations in yield, but it will go much further and instead of the district being mainly dependent on one crop it will promote the production of many other types of crops. This will greatly assist the whole area. The only objection that I have against this legislation is that possibly the amount of money involved is too little and it is being granted too late. It may be that we will need more money to finish the scheme. The Opposition is supporting these Bills. We want the Queensland State Government to get on with the job as soon as it can of providing water to those areas that need it and where it can be provided comparatively easily. 
The next Bill refers to the Clare Weir on the Burdekin River which is one of the largest rivers in Australia in terms of volume of water. I think it is about the largest river in times of peak flooding but like many Australian rivers it runs into the sea and does get very low at times. There is a big area to be irrigated around the twin towns of Ayr and Home Hill. This weir will provide water for this district. It will enable great development to take place in this area. So far the Burdekin does not have very much water storage on its tributaries. The big city of Townsville which is not very far away from it has possibilities of great industrial development. A nickel refinery plant is to be constructed there and other development projects will need an awful lot of water in the future. Townsville itself now has a dam for flood mitigation and a dam on the Ross River which, I am told, will keep the city provided with water for probably 10 or 15 years at the most and then water will have to be obtained from elsewhere. It will have to be obtained from the Burdekin River, probably at a point much higher up the river than the Clare Weir. 
I believe that this is part of a very large development of this particular area of Queensland and Australia and that the provision of a greater water supply in this area would mean an even larger development. Water from the Burdekin River can be used for industrial purposes as well as for irrigation and the provision of town water supplies. We support this scheme on the Burdekin River. We hope that it will be in operation quickly and that it can be extended so that other dams can be built on the Burdekin River. One of the southern tributaries of the Burdekin River supplies water to one of the mining developments in the Goonyella area. The provision of a water supply for that mining development is playing no insignificant part in the building up and storing of water in my State. 
The other Bill concerns the Proserpine River. I understand that during the floods this year the Proserpine River broke its banks in one area. The Proserpine River Improvement Trust has been set up and it has to rebuild some levy banks and strengthen the water channels. It is a very flooded area. It is a cane-growing area. The area has been subjected to great damage during the very wet years. For this scheme $120,000 is being provided by the Federal Government, $120,000 by the Queensland Government and $60,000 by the Proserpine River Improvement Trust. I think that this scheme is under way now, and we hope that it will be finished as soon as possible. 
The only other point that I should like to make about these Bills is that the Queensland State department which is responsible for these matters has always had a very good engineering and water supply staff. It has a good set-up. It has been able to lay out and build big dams in the past. Now apparently, because Federal Government money is being used in these schemes, the Snowy Mountains Authority's engineers are sent to check most of the figures. I was told for the schemes we have mentioned this afternoon that nearly $500,000 has been paid to the Snowy Mountains Authority in engineering fees just to check these matters after they have been done, I believe, in the first instance by the Queensland State department. These schemes are part of the development of water supplies in Australia. They are part of the program of trying to make as many areas as possible as drought-proof as we can make them in order that we can grow crops other than just sugar cane in particular areas. We in the Opposition wholeheartedly support these Bills and wish them a speedy passage. 
What odds if they are identically worded? There is nothing wrong with 12 or 14 telegrams coming from Thursday Island or from Bamaga. They are the centres and the settlements are all around them. They have to come through there. In the past we have had lots of telegrams on different matters from different organisations sent to members of Parliament as spontaneous protests. There has not been objection to that sort of thing in the past. I advised the Minister before that I thought he was getting wrong advice when he was seeing people in Queensland. I told him that he was going to the wrong people. But I did not realise until he went up there the time before - 
It was the date of the Weipa meeting when the people who came down to hear him were each paid $20 to come to the meeting. 
That is the way to get an audience. I can show to the Minister in writing a copy of the receipts for this money. If you want to get an audience, pay them $20 and you will get one all right. Those are the reasons - 

 - Mr Deputy President, I think that that remark ought to be withdrawn. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator Poyser  will withdraw that remark. 
Thank you. This matter will be debated when the Bill comes before the senate. The Minister has already had a very unpleasant shock from the reactions of the island communities and the reservation communities which are freely elected by an ordinary democratic vote. 
I beg to differ on that one. I will get some more information and I will bring it forward when we debate the Bill next week or before the Senate rises. That is all I have to say tonight. 
-Mr Acting  Deputy President,  I wish to say a few words on this matter and to state the case of my Party. The position has been outlined by  Senator Guilfoyle  and we support what she said in presenting her case. I just cannot follow the previous  speaker, Senator Everett,  in some ways. On 3 different occasions in his speech he said that over a period of 25 years the present legislation has been quite satisfactory. If that is the case, why does the Government want to bring in these amendments now? On several occasions it has been stated that only on 2 occasions in the last 25 years have the findings of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board been questioned. If that is the case, what is wrong with the legislation as it now stands? There is even some doubt whether the Broadcasting Control Board has any power, has any teeth, under this legislation. 
It was stated in the other place that if people believe that there is something in the Broadcasting and Television Act which is not in the Act it should be put in the Act. That reminds me a little of W. S. Gilbert's lines in 'The Mikado'-'We haven't had an execution for a long while; let's have an execution'. The inclusion of many of the amendments contained in this Bill will give an enormous amount of power to the proposed Australian Broadcasting Authority. The Broadcasting Control Board is to be renamed the Australian Broadcasting Authority. I do not know what difference that will make to the power and authority of the people in charge. Despite what  Senator Everett  said, there will be no regulations which can be either allowed or disallowed by either House of the Parliament. The Broadcasting Control Board came out with a list of submissions in the form of a couple of publications. I understand that they have been accepted by the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  and will become part of the Broadcasting Control Board's policy and programming for broadcasting and television. They will not be subject to disallowance by the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. They are not in any way that I can see related to existing regulations gazetted under the Act. It simply means that in future a board or some kind of statutory authority will be able to approve of rules and put them in the form of a book which the responsible Minister approves and in that way circumvent the Committee which has been established to look at such regulations and perhaps disallow them- the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. 
I would like to quote a particular provision. Clause 6 of the Bill refers to the 'requirements approved by the Minister'. Is that not enough? It does not say that regulations have to be made or anything like that. I contend that such rules do not have to be gazetted in the Australian 'Gazette'. I contend that they cannot be disallowed by either House of the Parliament. 
-I am just reading the Bill,  Mr Minister,  and that is what it says. I believe that that is putting an enormous amount of power in the hands of one person- the Minister for the Media of the day, whoever he might be. It is giving him power to control this form of the media. As he is the Minister for the Media it surely must be the basis for the controlling of other parts of the media. We would not like to see at some future date, as a result of this power growing, this matter of socialism versus private enterprise getting round to the newspapers or other forms of the media and its being said that a newspaper has to have its leading article on its front or back page or that it has to have certain items on certain pages. That could easily come about because of the way in which this matter is developing. That is one of the things we are questioning. 
We were told this morning by the Minister for the Media, in answer to a question, about a segment of a 'Four Corners' program not being broadcast in Queensland last weekend. I did not know that it was not broadcast in Queensland. 
The Minister is to have a look at the matter and tell us the reason later. I question also the idea of altering the name of the body to the Australian Broadcasting Authority from the Broadcasting Control Board. What was wrong with the previous title? Is there something in the Public Service Act or something like that which alters the authority of the people involved in this case? I believe that there is too much generality in this Bill. 
As  Senator Guilfoyle  said, we of the Opposition do not question the position regarding the amount of Australian content in programs. We support that but we do not think that unlimited power should be given to the Minister, through the Board, just to agree to these rules which, as I have already said, are not really the same as regulations. Another aspect of this legislation I wish to question is the granting of a licence for a period of only 3 months. How can a person contract for films for the future on a 3 months licence? He would not have a ghost of a chance. For some time I have been a member of an advisory committee of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I know how far ahead it has to contract for and buy its films. These sorts of things have to be taken into consideration all the time. Films have to be bought and contracted for several years ahead. That cannot be done just overnight. One just cannot go out and do so on the strength of a 3 months to 3 years or, as it is now, 6 months to 3 years licence. The people who run the broadcasting facilities would not know where they were going from day to day. Their assets would be threatened. They could not make any plans for the future. That is all I want to say about this Bill. The Australian Country Party goes along with the case set out by  Senator Guilfoyle. 
I want to refer briefly to matters contained in 2 of these Bills. The first relates to death duties. I was  chairman  of the committee which investigated death duties until the change of government in 1972. Subsequently the new committee presented a report. Three honourable senators on this side of the House brought in a minority report asking that death duties be eliminated. The main report referred to 2 matters that are contained in this Bill. It referred to the question of the matrimonial home being left to the surviving spouse, and the other concession being given in this Bill. In cases of extreme hardship a beneficiary will be able to apply to a board and put a case for relief. 
I refer firstly to the matter of the matrimonial home. The concession will cut out if the estate has a valuation of $85,000. Let us consider the case of a farm or something like that. The committee of which I was a member ran into a lot of trouble in regard to the huge capital investment, or apparent huge capital investment, of the primary industry sector of the economy. The figures showed, if I remember rightly, that 6 per cent or 7 per cent of the people paid 30 per cent to 40 per cent of the death duties. The concession in the case of the matrimonial home in an estate of up to $85,000 is not going to help tremendously in many cases. It will simply mean that the matrimonial home will have to be left to the surviving spouse, usually the wife, for her lifetime, and the duty will have to be paid when she passes on. What happens to the farm, the property or whatever it is, in the meantime? It cannot be left under those circumstances to any sons of daughters, and they cannot be given a share for this very reason. We put in a minority report-  Senator Guilfoyle, Senator Cotton  and myself- suggesting the elimination of this duty. We believed that should be the ultimate aim. This Bill may be just a small step towards achieving that but it is nothing like what we wanted. For that reason I propose to support the amendment. Cutting out the matrimonial home concession at $85,000 is not going to mean very much. Because of raging inflation, apparent values, but not real values, are increasing at 1 5 per cent or 20 per cent or more a year. All these things have to be taken into consideration. 
I refer now to the concession to be made available to people where difficult circumstances are supposed to be involved. Until we have determined some cases and we have people appointedcommissioners or whoever they are- to look after this matter, it will be pretty hard to say how this concession will work out or to decide where we will go from there. We are told that next year the Government intends bringing in a capital gains tax and from the information available at present that tax will be more or less complementary to death duties. Many properties left by a deceased person to his family will have to be disposed of to meet all these heavy imposts. Until we see the capital gains tax legislation we will not know just what is in it and it will be pretty hard to assess its effect. The Opposition thinks that if we are to have a capital gains tax we should not have death duties. It has to be one or the other. We recommend, and stick to it, that death duties be completely eliminated. 
The other matter I want to mention briefly is the reduction in the education allowance from $400 to $150. This has caught many Government supporters in this country, not just Opposition supporters. In country towns, with the high prices of high school uniforms, books and that sort of thing, it does not take long to reach a cost of $3 a week for each child. Parents will not get any concession above that. In this regard one of the biggest worries that the Opposition has is the possible slanting of education. We believe that the design is to eliminate all private schools from our country- there is no question about that- just as the Bill I was just discussing is designed to eliminate from our country all property ownership by private landholders, all farms and all businesses. In education the socialistic policies of this Government are designed to eliminate completely the private schools, whether church or other private schools. Once private schools are eliminated, as we have seen in many other countries, education can and will be slanted. This is the ultimate design. 
Socialist and communist writers throughout history have said that it is necessary to teach the child at its most impressionable age the principles of socialism and communism. Impress them then and they go on to secondary education and become part and parcel of a socialist or communist organisation in our own country. We know from experience and from travellers who have been to Red countries that the people in those countries do not even know the rest of the world exists. They have not been taught that and they will not be taught it, and that is what will happen in this country if we get complete socialism or communism in education. The cutting out of this allowance and the eventual closure of private schools is the first step towards that. Boarding schools today, as most people who have any knowledge of them know, are in desperate trouble. Quite apart from the salaries of staff there are the salaries of the people who run the schools, the housekeepers, the commissariat of the school and everybody who works in the schools. These costs have become prohibitive. In fact the position has become so serious that these schools do not know whether they can start again next year. 
So the Opposition moves that the education allowance be restored from $150 to $400 and so give help to a lot of people. There are many people in country towns and villages, without high schools and away from the bus limits. whose children cannot go to local high schools. They have to be sent to a boarding school or have to board somewhere in town. We have the spectacle of many people who live 50 or 60 miles from town having to run 2 homes- one in a village with a high school so that they can send their children for secondary education, and their other home. They spend 4 nights a week in the town where the school is and go home for 3 nights a week. I know a lot of people who are doing this. 
These are some of the reasons why the Opposition does not want the complete elimination of private schools from this country. We do not want education slanted to suit the teaching of communism and socialism. We want a fair and reasonable education. It is most noticeable when one travels the world that people from this country, as a result of the broad and true system of education they have had, have more knowledge of the rest of the world than many people they meet on their travels overseas. People overseas perhaps have heard of Australia or Sydney but that is all they know whereas the average Australian child, through the comprehensive education system we have had in the past and which we want to keep, knows all about the rest of the world. That is all I wanted to mention, death duties and the allied capital gains tax which is coming in next year to make the position even worse, and the education allowance which has been reduced from $400 to $ 1 50 but which, as soon as the Government is changed, will go back to $400 at least. 
I want to say a few words about this Bill. 
I have some telegrams, thank you, senator. I have mentioned before the position of the Aboriginal reserves in 
Queensland and on the Islands. They do have councils democratically elected. Most of them are pretty well run. As I mentioned before, they have their own police force, they have their own native police and the council runs the whole island. The main problem with this Bill is the provision relating to the permit to enter reserves. The position under Queensland law is that no person can enter, visit or reside on a reserve without a permit from the democratically elected council- not from any European or anybody of that nature- and the main purpose of the Bill is to maintain that condition on these reserves and settlements and on the islands. It is easy to understand why the people have their reserves and islands well run. A document which I have states: 
Permits to enter Reserve areas specially reserved for the use of Aboriginal people are determined conjointly with the Aboriginal Council. The people themselves require control of access thus an entry permit is required. 
If refused the individual has a Right of Appeal against the decision. The desirability of entry permit is based on 
a ) The propensity of an Aboriginal to virtually 'squat ' in a relative or friend 's home and ethnically the householder is unable to expel him thus, apart from overcrowding in homes . . . 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Just before you speak,  Senator Rae,  I inform  Senator Keeffe  that at the end of  Senator Lawrie  's speech he can ask that the papers from which he is reading be tabled. 
The document continues. 
The propensity of an Aboriginal to virtually 'squat ' in a relative or friend's home and ethnically the householder is unable to expel him thus, apart from overcrowding in homes, maintenance responsibilities devolve on the householder. 
Entry of undesirable persons to invade the habitat of the residents; 
Unrestricted entry could create slum and/or very sub-standard conditions in Community areas. The Advisory Councils at their recent Conference were adamant that these permits should be retained within their laws. 
I think this means the issue of permits. The position is that these people want to keep the right to issue permits and the right to prevent people coming in.  Senator Keeffe  referred to Palm Island. Palm Island has about 1,200 people on it now but if there was no control of entry we do not know how many people would go there. It could have up to 5,000 or 6,000 and the hospital system, the schools, the water supply and the whole general supply system would break down. There are very good reasons for the people who live on these reserves- the reserve is their home- to have some control and say as to who comes to visit them and who stays there. The document continues: 
The Federal Labour administration has always regarded these permits as a barrier to unrestricted access to Queensland reserves by their Ministers officers, or any other Federal advisor-type personnel. The Torres Strait people arc particularly opposed to this form of intrusion. 
Early in 1973, the people of Yam Island asked the Commonwealth Department for assistance to buy a new tractor and trailer. 
On 27th July, 1973, the Secretary of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Dexter,  wrote to the  Chairman  Yam Island, and I quote the text of that letter. 'I refer to your request for a grant of $4,200 for the purchase of a tractor and trailer for use on Yam Island for general community purposes. I am happy to say that the Minister has approved of this grant and a cheque for the amount will be sent to you in due course. 
The Minister has asked me to say that his approval is subject to the proviso that the Minister and his staff, Departmental officers, or Members of Parliament, should be able to visit your Island as the opportunity arises.' 
That is what is in the letter. It continues: 
No greater insult could have been directed to this proud race. I am advised that the Council Chairman courteously declined the offer and returned the cheque. 
I have explained why we are objecting very much to the elimination of permits to visit the reserves. There are 7 million acres of these reserves in Queensland. As has already been mentioned, one bone of contention between the Federal Minister and the Queensland Administration is that Queensland will not give up the reserves, whatever else happens. Some telegrams have been quoted here today. I would like to quote one which is from the opposite point of view. This one is signed by the Minister, J. Cavanagh. It is addressed to Les Stewart, who is the  Chairman  of the Cherbourg Aboriginal Reserve Council and the  Chairman  also of the group of councils in Queensland. The text of the telegram from  Senator Cavanagh  is as follows: 
Les, as prisoner on a reserve, you have no right to stop any Aboriginal from re-uniting with their relatives. Support my Government in this and subsequent legislation and upon return of Cherbourg settlement to Aboriginals, with the right of ownership, you will have the right to decide who enters your private property. Cease being an agent of Petersen and fight for the rights and freedom of your people. 
This is a unique telegram. The man is being asked to agree to people coming onto the reserve without a permit and yet it is calling the reserve his private property. I do not know how one can get around this sort of thing, but that is what is going on. I am told that on the last occasion on which  Senator Cavanagh  visited Cherbourg he openly stated that he was happy with the Cherbourg settlement, and he congratulated the Council and the people on that settlement. I have been asked to deliver a message from  Mr Les  Stewart, the man I have just mentioned as receiving the telegram which I read. The message from  Mr Les  Stewart of Cherbourg is to  Senator Cavanagh,  and it is this: 'If this Bill is passed in its present form the first person to be debarred from visiting Cherbourg under our tribal rights will be  Senator Cavanagh'.  I refer again briefly to the meeting at Weipa. In answer to a second question put to him, the Minister finally came out with the story that about $4,600 had been spent to hire aeroplanes which were used to bring the people to this meeting. 
That is what I am coming to. He told us in the course of that speech that apart from the use of his VIP aeroplane the only other thing that he knew of was that these people had the use of a car at the Weipa meeting. I have here copies of a couple of receipts. They are signed by a gentleman called Joe Callope. The first receipt is for an amount of $30 and it is concerned with the transportation of ex-Mapoon people to the meeting. Apparently the $30 covers 5 trips made by a 22-seater bus of 12 miles either way. The money was paid by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The other receipt, which is also signed by  Mr Joe  Callope, is for money paid to him as  chairman  of the Weipa South Community Council. That receipt is made out for the sum of $300, According to the receipt the money was paid for 'attendance of ex-Mapoon people at community meeting'. The expenditure of that money is additional to the money spent on the use of the car which, according to  Senator Cavanagh  's story, was the only money that was spent. But I am also told that a gentleman called Jerry Hudson received $20 per head to pay to some ex-Mapoon people to attend that meeting. 
These are the facts and figures. I have told the Minister before that he should check with his Queensland officers; he is getting the wrong information from somewhere. Everything is not as bad as he tries to make out. We have already found out that most of the people wanted to keep this permit system. This is the main thing that they want to keep. If the Bill goes through as it stands, which I believe is unlikely, it will mean that the people who have their homes on these reserves will have little control. I refer to the people on the reserves as distinct from those who live away from the reserves. Almost half the Aborigines in Queensland live away from the reserves. The passage of this legislation will enable them, if they wish, to visit places where probably in many cases they are not wanted. A person who lives in a particular place might want some say in who can visit him, who can come to see him. He would want some control over that. Such a system applies now. It is working pretty well. Why not let them keep it? 
I have with me here a copy of the recent Queensland Act. The Bill before us completely eliminates from the Aboriginal Act and the Torres Strait Islanders Act provisions in relation to the management of Aboriginal and Island affairs. The other matters referred to are, one might say, pretty well redundant, except for this one particular point about which the Minister is so persistent. If he is successful in his endeavours it will have a very disastrous effect on the people on these reserves and particularly on the islands. If the restrictions in relation to visitors are lifted on the islands, anybody can go there. You could start a tourist resort or anything. Whether or not  Senator Cavanagh  wants Federal laws to apply in relation to this matter, the position will arise where he has to depend on the State laws of Queensland in looking after its Aboriginal reserves and in keeping control of them. Yet he wants everybody to be able to visit them. They are State property. Unless the Commonwealth is prepared to buy them from the State of Queensland- 7 million acres of them- they will remain State property. 
They are marked as reserves for the use of the Aboriginal inhabitants of the State, and that can be varied by Act of Parliament from time to time. They are not in perpetuity; they do not go on for ever. They are still the property of the State of Queensland. Unless they are purchased they will remain the property of the State of Queensland. We have the extraordinary position today in which we are dependent upon the State laws to run these councils. Even in the preamble to the Bill mention is made of the fact that the right to enter these reserves is subject to the State laws of Queensland. 
So I support some form of postponement of this Bill until we can check with these people. The telegrams which we have already read to the 
Senate and which we have explained indicate that they want time to allow the people on the reserves- not the other people- to vote on this matter. They are not interested in the people who do not live on the reserves entering into this matter. These other people are living in places away from the reserves and they are no longer controlled. I think that the Government and the Minister would be well advised to drop or at least to defer that part of the Bill which deals with this matter until an adequate vote or plebiscite of some kind can be taken of all people on all of these reserves and islands. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I call  Senator Bonner. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 Senator RAE (Tasmania)- I thank the Senate. I will be very brief. The accusation was made that I had participated in this chamber in supporting the action taken by the then Minister for the Interior,  Mr Hunt,  in relation to the removal with bloodshed, so it was said, of certain tents and Aboriginal persons from the lawns outside Parliament House. I have checked the Hansard. The debate is recorded in Hansard of 20 September 1972. The Hansard report shows that I neither participated in the debate nor did I participate in the vote. It so happened I was paired on that occasion, and I did not vote.  Senator Keeffe,  as he did in various other parts of his speech, has made a sweeping statement which was totally inaccurate. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade been drawn to the fact that meat from New Zealand is available for sale in Australian butchers' shops? In view of the desperate position of Australian meat producers will the Government consider invoking the emergency clauses in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement to temporarily suspend imports of meat from New Zealand? 
I want to say a few words on this Bill. When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  was replying in the second reading debate he mentioned something about this having been an election issue and that now that it was not an election issue we could treat it possibly in a different manner. Never at any stage was this an election issue in Queensland. This Bill has been on the notice paper for some time and the election in Queensland has not affected it at all. The Minister tried to explain the position in relation to clause 6, particularly as it applied to permits to go onto reserves. In one breath he says that he wants permits removed completely; in the next he says that the people on the reserves will still be able to control their reserves and say who comes on them. That seems haywire to me. 
He said that this morning. The honourable senator will read it in Hansard tomorrow if he would like to check it. 
When closing the second reading debate. 
It might be but  Senator Poyser  can read it in Hansard in the morning if he wants to. The Minister said he wanted the restrictions removed but then says that the people on the reserves will be able to say who comes in. Why remove the restrictions if this sort of thing is to go on? It does not make sense to me at all. 
The next matter I want to refer to is a statement, I think last week, by the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  about some telegrams which were alleged by the Minister or the Postmaster-General's Department to have been charged to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I have checked on the position and found that most of the outpost radios run from Thursday Island, particularly, from the Peninsula, the islands and elsewhere, are run by the State Department and the Postmaster-General's own regulations will not permit it to accept telegrams from that radio network unless they are charged to departmental accounts. They have to be charged to the telephone number of the Queensland Department. Yet the PostmasterGeneral comes along and says that they were charged to the account of the State department when his own regulations say that they have to be charged in that way. That effectively clears up the point about them being paid for by the Queensland Department. 
I had a call from Les Stewart yesterday. Les Stewart, as honourable senators probably know, is  chairman  of the combined councils of the various settlements and reserves in Queensland. He asked me to plead with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs not to go on with this clause on the abolition of permits to enter reserves. He said it would destroy the whole way of life on these reserves and he asked me two or three times to plead with the Minister not to go on with the clause. He said that the Minister did not understand the position fully and he asked me to pass this message on. He said to me: 'If you cannot do that, at least throw these clauses out'. He was speaking for the combined councils in Queensland and spoke certainly with some authority. To say that he is not a duly elected representative of the Cherbourg settlement, as honourable senators opposite are trying to make out, is, I think, absolutely wrong. 
I propose to support the deletion of clauses 6 and 7 in order to let the people of Queensland continue to manage their own affairs. The people elected to the councils are democratically elected, despite what  Senator Keeffe  says. They should continue to say who can and who cannot go on to the reserves.  Mr Stewart  said that no relatives of people who live on the reserves had been refused entry to the reserves. I believe that will be the position if the law is left as it is. I believe that the present position should continue to exist whereby the State Government has undertaken to listen to the representations made by the people on the reserves. The State Government has listened to all representations made to it and has given the Aborigines nearly everything they want. Most of the Bill is redundant. I think clauses 6 and 7 should be thrown out. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice; 
Has the Prime Minister been requested to hold an urgent Premiers' Conference on the economy; if so, does this indicate that the Premiers are far from happy with the new financial measures announced this week. 
Has the Prime Minister agreed to hold such a conference. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Will the Government give consideration to the fact that the savage increases in postal and telegram charges will affect handicapped and elderly people who generally use these means of communication? Will the Government try to minimise the hardship placed on these people? 
