Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry any information as to the progress made in inducing the States to adopt the Commonwealth Government's dairy farm amalgamation scheme? If he has not, will he see that this is made available to honourable senators, with particular reference to the reasons why some of the States have not adopted the scheme? 
 1 ask the Minister representing the Postmaster-General a question which stems from the great dissatisfaction of King Island residents with television services. Is the Minister in a position to say when the proposed relay station for King Island will be established? 
The next piece of information I have is that following receipt of offers for the microwave radio equipment, a contract will be issued over the next week. This will require delivery of the equipment from the overseas factory during April 19711 This is the best delivery offer that has been received, and with air freighting of the equipment it will be possible to commence installation during June 1971. The remaining equipment for the television transmitting station, and the aerials and towers, are expected to be delivered and installed before June 1971. At the present rate of progress we expect the new service to be completed between July and September 1971, but this target will be reviewed early in 1971 in the light of the progress of delivery of materials and installation work. If I can get any further information I will puss it on to the honourable senator. 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it not correct that there is in existence a treaty signed by North Vietnam not only guaranteeing the neutrality of Laos, but also agreeing to withdraw all North Vietnamese troops from that country? Who are the members of the commission, if there is one, that is charged with ensuring that the treaty is observed? What is the attitude of that commission regarding the unprovoked aggression of North Vietnam against Laos? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. Is it not correct that the overseas firm Unilever Pty Ltd has the patent rights for the manufacture of what are known as Surprise peas and that this system of manufacture is being used in the United States of America, in New Zealand and even in the United Kingdom for peas exported to Australia, which exports are certainly damaging the Australian industry? Because Part XII of the Patents Act provides for the granting of compulsory licences to work a patented invention where the reasonable requirements of the public with respect to the invention are not met by the patentee himself, is there not a case to be answered because these requirements, to the best of my knowledge, apply not to Australian peas but .to imported peas, with considerable damage to the Australian producer? Is it not competent for the Government, through the Tariff Board, to indicate clearly that if these requirements, or a considerable part thereof, are not met from within Australia. the imports will be greatly reduced or, better still, eliminated altogether? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry any information concerning a report that an American company has secured an area of land in South Australia and that the company or the South Australian Government has made water available for the purpose of producing canning peas for the Australian market? If this is so, what is the area of land involved? Will it not result in a further decline in the income of those farmers engaged in this type of production? 
Following on the question asked by  Senator Marriott,  I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service: Is it not correct that one of the most serious aspects of the industrial unrest on the Searoad service, apart from its effect on the tourist industry, is the mounting lag in the freight service between Tasmania and the mainland? Is not the position fast approaching when this lag will have to be met by the introduction of another Searoad ship? 
I support the motion that the Senate agree to the Address-in-Reply to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. The motion was ably moved by  Senator Rae  and seconded by  Senator Maunsell. Senator Rae,  in particular, made a very forthright speech and was right on the ball. I extend my good wishes to those senators who made their maiden speeches today with the qualification that I do not agree with much of what they said. I leave  Senator Little  to his financial theories. 1 would not attempt to deal with what he said in any way, because it was right over my head.  Senator Little  may be right; 1 do not know. We heard a rambling speech from  Senator Georges.  One of his grievances was that the previous Speech of the Governor-General was too short and that the Speech we are now discussing is too long. Certainly the present Speech contains a lot of meat and covers many matters. lt focuses attention on matters that arc of great importance to the people of the Commonwealth. 1 was intrigued by what  Senator Georges  said. Like every other Opposition senator who has spoken, he had something to say about Vietnam. He said that someone or other had broken an agreement on Laos. It is a fact that North Vietnam was a signatory to the Geneva agreement. North Vietnam signed the agreement Included in the agreement was an undertaking to attempt to preserve the neutrality of Laos. Furthermore, North Vietnam agreed that it would withdraw all of its troops from Laos. Far from withdrawing all of its troops from Laos, North Vietnam has reinforced its troops and at present is engaged in committing a breach of that agreement because of its aggression against Laos. 
 We did not sign the agreement. The United States of America did not sign the agreement; it reserved its rights. 
We did not sign the agreement. I say that without any equivocation whatsoever. But as I have said, the United States did not sign the treaty; it reserved freedom of action. When we see a flagrant breach of a treaty, does it not cast doubt upon any good coming out of the talks that are taking place in Paris at present? We know that if the people with whom we are discussing this matter sign an agreement they will use it merely as a subterfuge to gain some advantage. 
1 am not going to be led aside by interjections. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order!  Senator Georges  was heard in reasonable silence when he made his speech and I ask him to allow the Senate to listen to other speakers in reasonable silence. 
 Mr Acting Deputy President,  I rise to speak in the main about primary production. If there is a domestic problem in this country at present it is the plight of the primary producers. It is not long ago that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said that the income of a farmer in this country was lagging behind by 15 years. We could cite endless statistics in support of that. This country has been warned for a long time about the very grave decline in the income of the primary producer. We have been told that eventually there would come a time when the profit margin of the farmer would disappear and then there would be real trouble. 
I hear an interjection from a member of a party which, according to Don von Bibra - who has both feet on the ground if ever a man had - supported a measure which was a triumph of ignorance. He was referring to a ban on the exportation of merino rams. 
I am, without any doubt. After 20 years in Parliament I would say that if ever an ignorant vote was cast in this chamber it was the vote cast by members of the Opposition in an attempt to prohibit the export of merino rams. It was the result of a lack of knowledge of the subject. If I were a millionaire I would place some honourable senators opposite - if they were agreeable - on a piece of mother earth and sit back and watch the fun as they attempted to scratch their living from the land. And there would be fun. If 1 had been responsible for that vote cast in this chamber by members of the Opposition 1 would for ever after hold my peace on matters concerned with primary industry. But it is a fact that the less wit a man has the less he knows he needs it. 
At a time when considerable sections of the community have been demanding and receiving adequate remuneration for their services - some sections have received this under the threat of direct action - we have the spectacle of postal employees threatening what amounts to sabotage of the mail services of this country. [Quorum formed.] It is apparent that when Opposition senators do not like what is said, they take this action. But the tactic is a two edged sword and can be used in both directions. Before the bells were rung I had said that postal employees were taking action that amounted to sabotage of the postal services of Australia in order that their remuneration be increased. 
No, it is not fair. The 'Sunday Telegraph' of 1st March 1970 stated:   . . the postal workers have ignored a course of action which is freely available - an appeal to the Arbitration Commission - and have taken direct action which hurts the whole community. 
In addition, action taken by a section of the workforce is crucifying my own State of Tasmania by continuous and frivolous holdups of the Searoad services. It is only a week or two ago that the departure of the Empress of Australia' was held up and she could not leave port because three men walked off the ship when it was due to sail. They made it impossible for the ship to leave the port. Such things are boosting up the freight position. They are leading to irregularities in services. They are crippling these services to Tasmania. Such things are costing the primary producer out of his traditional markets on the mainland. That is the plain fact. There is no argument about it. 
There are people who advocate the abolition of the penal clauses in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. If 1 had my way, that kind of frivolity and that kind of Communist inspired sabotage of the industrial life of this country would be met by more teeth being put into the Act. 
I do not know what kind of teeth should go in- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)-  Order! 
The very people who do these things- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! Honourable senators will cease interjecting. 
I do not mind,  Mr Deputy President.  It does show that I am getting under their skins and that they do not like what I am saying. I do not mind what they say to me- 
No, of course noone does because it is the truth. These people do not like it. It is the truth that always hurts. What I have just spoken of is one of the things that is crucifying primary producers in my State. I have had a long experience of it. It is one of the factors that has costed primary producers in Tasmania out of their traditional markets on the mainland. 
Now, a tendency exists on the part of a number of people, politics being what they are, to blame the Government for the position of the primary producer. The Governor-General's Speech that we are discussing now contains about one and a half pages of references to additional help or additional props to primary industry. If honourable senators read the Speech that was delivered in another place by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr 
Anthony) they will see the whole Government programme which has taken shape over many years set out. The aid that has been given to primary industry in this country is detailed. 
The position that exists is simply this: The wheat industry is in the position in which it is because there is too much wheat in the world. The butter industry is in the position in which it finds itself because a world wide surplus of dairy products exists today. The complexion of wool marketing over the past few years has so changed that only the very finest wool is in demand on the world market. These are things over which the Government of this country has little control and for which no ready made solution is available. 1 take note of what  Senator McManus  said about French farmers giving away their products as a demonstration against the position in which they find themselves. But that goes hand in hand in that country, in the European Economic Community, with the position where the powers- that- be in that Community are subsidising farmers not to produce. In addition to that, some classes of products are being dumped onto the world market at a price against which this country cannot compete. Furthermore, some classes of products have been destroyed in that way to get away with a surplus of production. 
Now, when we consider that that position has been brought about by a whole gambit of subsidies unheard of in this country - subsidisation to the tune of many, many millions of dollars in many categories - does it not throw a different light on any proposal to subsidise primary industry in Australia? 1 do not discount it. 1 do not say that it should not be. But it does incline one towards the belief that excessive subsidisation, regardless of economic factors, can bring about a set of circumstances under which subsidisation will defeat itself. Then we must consider the dissatisfaction that exists in the United Kingdom. Might T say in passing that this hocus pocus - this is the only description for the position that pertains in the European Economic Community today - is the organisation which the British Government proposes to join and about which farmers in the United Kingdom have expressed the very gravest misgivings - and no wonder! 
It is of interest to note that, while the Labour Government of the United Kingdom is hell bent on joining the European Economic Community, so too is the Conservative Party. I believe that the splinter Liberal Party is in favour of the proposition to join the European Economic Community. Yet, it is a fact, I understand, that substantial majorities at gallup polls have expressed direct opposition to United Kingdom participation in the European Economic Community. I note that one man expressed the opinion that, because of those factors, democracy in that country had defeated itself. 
In our own country, in addition to the fall in the prices of primary products the world over, the cost of production is ever and always increasing. I cannot help but come down with the idea that the continuous and repeated increases granted by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have in the long run just about costed the primary producer out of production. I have no grievance against the wage earner receiving the highest possible remuneration for his services. But, when in the doing of this one important section of the community is left behind and cannot participate, something is very wrong with the system indeed. Surely the time is coming when the position that pertains so far as the cost factor in this country is concerned will need to be looked at very, very seriously indeed. 
What has been the spectacle that we have seen since the last war? I think that  Senator Brown  referred to it. The Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission meets. It takes stock of the cost of living. It says that the basic wage, or whatever wage it is adjudicating upon, is not adequate and that it must be increased. So, the Commission increases that wage. The Commission meets some time after that decision and takes another look at the cost of living according to whatever index it employs. The members of the Commission say: 'Since we last met the cost of living has gone up again.' And it has gone up again because of the action they had taken previously. So they increase wages again. That has gone on ever since World War II ended. The experience of almost 20 years has shown conclusively that continuous wage increases which are used only to offset increased prices resulting from increases in wages previously granted by the Arbitration Commission are not a remedy for the trouble at all. 
 I go along with Dougherty when he said that there are more wigs in the Arbitration Commission than there are in the High Court of Australia. I have thought for a long time that wage fixing should not be the prerogative of legal men. I believe that men with industrial and commercial experience should be included in the Arbitration Commission because they would examine the effect of their decisions on the economy of the country as a whole and would not have regard only to the simple act of adjusting wages in according with the cost of living, particularly having regard to the fact that one important section of the community is left right out of calculations and cannot share in the cutting up of the cake. That is one factor that has brought primary industry in Australia to its present parlous state. 
 Some people go along with the idea that the Liberal Government has no control over the Arbitration Commission. Some people go along with the idea that because of artificially created conditions the small producer should be eliminated, if possible; that he is in such a small way he is uneconomical. 
 I heard an interjection about the Country Party. I do not know whether it was a reference to the dairy farm amalgamation scheme of the Country Party. As to that scheme, the Commonwealth Government made a most generous offer to the States. No coercion was attached to it. A farmer who sells his property to his neighbour over the fence is a free agent. He can please himself whether he sells. There is no coercion. However, [ believe that the small producers of this country are the salt of the earth. If I could do so, I would so arrange subsidies on the products of small primary producers as to keep them in business. They are not the type of men who would down tools because a decision handed down by one commission or another did not suit them. Such men are of a different vein altogether. J believe that it is the duty of the Government to try to keep those men in production and to place them in a stable position. 
No, the Government is not murdering them. They are being murdered by a set of conditions over which this Government and the producers themselves have no control. I say that there is no ready made remedy for the problems of primary industry. I doubt that the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  can propound a scheme by which farmers can be placed in a better position, considering the worldwide trend today and the effect of blanket subsidies for primary industries. One of the grievances about subsidies for the dairy industry is that in the main they help the bigger producer. If it were practical I would arrange that small producers, far from having their properties amalgamated or being put out of business, would be kept solvent and producing. 
The capacity of human beings to delude themselves is enormous. Every honourable senator opposite who has spoken in this debate has referred to Vietnam. I wish that their ideas were correctly based and that there were no danger to this country. I recall that only a year or two ago, under the auspices of a Communist power, the Arab states ringed little Israel with the avowed intention of wiping it off the face of the earth. They ringed Israel with military might, but when they got the worst of the struggle they accused Israel of being the aggressor. As to the spectacle in Vietnam today, the fiat went forth from North Vietnam to act against South Vietnam largely because of the great progress that had taken place in South Vietnam. 
Let us get away once and for all from the idea that Communism is born in poverty. The Communist powers devour with equal avidity viable, progressive, advanced and cultured countries like Czechoslovakia. In fact, I believe that they prefer to take such countries because they do not like the trouble of laying the essential groundwork to bring a country to a state of considerable advancement and productivity. The North Vietnamese attempted to subjugate South Vietnam by force. When the United States of America, in honouring guarantees to South Vietnam, attempted to interfere to stop that action, it was at once accused of aggression. That is the style of Communist thinking. 
I would sooner be that than the victim of Communist propaganda, by a long way. We have heard a lot of talk about Vietnam in his chamber. I really believe the honourable senators opposite must at the bottom of their hearts have misgivings about the position they adopt. Reference has been made to the domino theory. The dominoes themselves are afraid. The Communist system has in the Soviet Union, the Communist Republic of China and North Vietnam slaughtered more of its own people than were killed in two world wars. It is hard to believe that there are people in Australia, the United States and the free world who say that Communism should not be resisted. Some of those people are sitting on the other side of this chamber. 
May I redirect to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral a question relating to Surprise peas which I asked earlier but to which he did not have an answer? I believe that the Minister is now able to answer my question. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral. When will he give further consideration to the legal position of Unilever Australia Pty Ltd in regard to its patent rights for the processing of Surprise peas? As this patent is used in overseas countries only for the product which is exported to Australia, could it not be declared, as the Patents Act lays down, that the reasonable requirement of the Australian public is not being met by the patentee? Is this not a matter for the closest investigation by the Government? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Is the Minister aware that the figures which were released by the Minister for Trade and Industry in relation to imports of peas from New Zealand are very misleading inasmuch as the quantity of Surprise peas imported, which the Minister admits has increased, must be multiplied 4i times to bring it to the equivalent of the standard frozen peas? Has not the position of the Australian producer been further aggravated by previous imports of these peas from the United States of America and the United Kingdom? Will the Minister enter into discussions with the Department of Trade and Industry with a view to supplying the reason why Unilever Pty Ltd does not use its patent in Australia but apparently prefers to bombard the Australian market from overseas to the serious detriment of the Australian producer? 
 Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware of statements made by people prominent in the meat exporting industry in Tasmania to the effect that the Japanese market for Tasmanian meat is in jeopardy because of a lack of regular shipping? Is he also aware that this market amounts to more than $100,000 a year to Tasmania alone and has great capacity for expansion? If the feeder services to Tasmanian ports as promised by the British shipping consortia were inaugurated, could they also be used through the Australian National Line to improve the service to Japan? Has the Minister any comments to make regarding the delay in the commencement of these container services from Tasmania to the mainland? 
Has the Leader of  the Government in the Senate any further information concerning the encroachment of Russian fishing ships in Tasmanian waters? Is he aware that it has been established that these ships were well within the 12-mile limit and were using fishing grounds frequently used by Tasmanian fishermen based at Stanley? Have any representations been made to Soviet authorities, or to whomever is responsible, regarding this matter? 
I do not doubt for a moment that it would take a very long time for the royal commission envisaged by  Senator McManus  to investigate the ramifications and further prospects of the 18 primary industries mentioned by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony).  A royal commission would be cumbersome and would probably take a long time to reach a conclusion.  Senator Milliner  spoke about this great charter which is enjoyed by the Australian Agricultural Council. The amendment states: 
In regard to the words proposed to be inserted - 
Leave out all words after 'would be' in paragraph (1), insert 'for the Government to call an emergency meeting of the Australian Agricultural Council to review the present crisis in the countryside, and give proper national leadership to end, without delay, the present uncertainty and current hardship'. 
The Australian Agricultural Council, to the best of my knowledge, is composed of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States and it is notorious that the Commonwealth and the States do not agree at all conferences. If they do agree it is notorious that since federation the representatives of the States report back to their own parliaments and their own parliaments then do not agree, lt would be a super-optimist who would believe that such a body composed of representatives of the Commonwealth and the States could give national leadership. 
I am stating something that has been proved since federation. The honourable senator knows perfectly well that the Commonwealth and the States very often do not agree, and that if they do agree it very often happens that when the representatives of the States report to their respective parliaments the parliaments refuse to sanction what has been done. In my view, to get concerted positive action it is necessary that the States should cooperate in this matter because they hold jurisdiction over areas that are vital to primary production. 

 Senator McManus quoted figures ; you can quote them ad infinitum ; detailing the slump that has taken place in the Commonwealth in primary production. The startling figures he quoted indicated that there has been a decline of 21% in net income and that the percentage of gross national income earned by primary production has fallen from 8% to 4%. Those figures are startling. They have shown up at a time when most of the community is in affluent circumstances and when sections of the community are demanding, and are receiving, added increments, lt is a most unfortunate feature of our economic setup that when those things happen the costs accruing to primary production increase with them. Primary industry the world over is in trouble. Because of excessive subsidisation in the European Common Market large quantities of primary products are being destroyed. In spite of that fact there is serious dissatisfaction among primary producers. A good long look at the position which exists in the European Economic Community leads one to believe that subsidisation by itself is not a solution to the problem. 
In this country while certain of our markets overseas have been receding and we have lost others altogether, and while this Government has done much for primary producers, the plain fact is that there is a surplus of primary products the world over. The position which pertains in regard to wheat is brought about because there is too much wheat in the world. It is something about which there can be no short remedy, but I do say in all seriousness that at this time in this country when nearly every class of primary product is in glut supply, we should take a good long hard look at the primary products which are being imported into Australia. I have asked questions on this subject often. We have been told that those imports amount to only 1%,  2%,  3% or 4% of our total imports and that they are so small in terms of Australian consumption that they do not really matter. In my view that is a completely false conception because it is perfectly true that if you have a sufficiency of production of any given commodity and you add f% to that production by imports, that 1% does infinitely more harm than would be indicated by the figure itself because you pass immediately from a sufficiency to a surplus. 
 Probably it is but I would certainly have a look at the importation of primary products into Australia. 
 I think that is one of the bedrock causes of the trouble. I believe that the primary producer, particularly so far as the local market is concerned, has been costed out of production so that it is almost impossible for him to compete. However I do not go along with the idea that because the percentage of imports is minute the position is not affected. If you import even a very small percentage onto an already glutted market you will do very much more damage than is indicated by the percentage imported. 
I support the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Air who represents in this place the Minister for Primary Industry. If notice is taken of the committees which are set up under the proposed amendment and if the Government will act in accordance with the recommendations of those committees - that has not always been the experience in the past in relation to the setting up of committees - I think that something can be done for primary production. But I repeat that it is absolute folly at this time when there is a glut of primary production in this country to import, whether it is under the auspices of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement or outside it, primary products in no matter what quantities and place them on an already glutted market. 
 But in regard to the matter that I have brought up in this place so often you have it both ways. For example, in regard to peas you have imports, you have production of 120 million lb and you have consumption of 80 million lb. 
Debate interrupted. 
I have listened to the previous speakers in this debate. I listened to  Senator Wriedt  detail the agreements that were supposed to have been entered into at the time of the Geneva Accords. Ho Chi Minh, the great national liberator in Vietnam - he was acclaimed as such - succeeded for some time in establishing himself before the people realised that he was using the national resurgence to institute a Communist form of government in North Vietnam. 
But other aspects of the Geneva Accords should be considered, one of them being that the integrity of Laos was to be guaranteed, together with its neutrality. An agreement to that effect was signed by North Vietnam. One of the conditions of the agreement was that North Vietnamese troops were to be withdrawn from Laos. North Vietnam, far from withdrawing its troops, increased their numbers in Laos, a process which culminated in an act of aggression against Laos. 
North Vietnam is acting in a similar way in Cambodia. It certainly is tinkering in Thailand. What amazes me more than anything else is how anyone in this country can view with equanimity what is happening in South East Asia, without at least some fears for the future integrity of this country.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack was perfectly right when he said that the domino theory, which has been jeered at by many people since the conflict in Vietnam started, is unfolding before our eyes. It can be seen in Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and South Vietnam. Does anybody believe that once South East Asia has gone the Communists will stop without encroaching upon this country? I have respect for honourable senators opposite who have some fears about the position in South Vietnam but I cannot believe that they are so blind to the future of this country as not to see what could happen, what must be the eventual culmination of the process taking place in South East Asia. 

 Senator Mulvihill made a moderate speech. He said, amongst other things, that it would be a matter for extreme regret if the United States of America sank back into the condition of isolation which pertained prior to World War II. The United States of America, that much maligned country, has poured billions of dollars into Western Europe, Japan and South East Asia since World War II in order to rehabilitate and stabilise those countries. I shudder to think what condition the world would be in today but for what the United States has done. Certainly the onward march of Communism would have been made much easier. 
Britain used to act as the policeman of the world, but all she got out of it was abuse from many people who do not seem to be able to see past the ends of their noses. The United States has certainly been a great bastion of democracy, the last one of consequence left in the world. All she has received from the people in many countries is a tirade of abuse. If the United States sinks back into isolation, that position will have been very largely contributed to by the people in this Parliament - who, incidentally, pleaded with the Americans 20 years ago to come and save this country. Those people did not then look a gift horse in the mouth. 
The speech delivered by the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  was cautious and realistic. I believe that it provided a good run down on the position that exists particularly to the north of us. We have to bear in mind that the shield under which Australia was given birth as a nation and the shield under which we grew for more than 20 years is no longer there. It has gone. I am one of those people who have not a lot of faith in Great Britain coming back into South East Asia. But that is easily understood when it is realised that Great Britain dissolved her own empire. She voluntarily dissolved it and has been reduced to the status of a European power without very great natural resources. It may well be that the burden of maintaining a presence east of Singapore was more than the taxpayers of Britain could withstand, but there are other factors. Great Britain has had a Labor Government for some years. 
Not long ago  Mr Denis  Healey, the Secretary of State for Defence in the United Kingdom, published a White Paper on the defence position of the United Kingdom. It is a most amazing document because in it he warns, among other things, that Russia's military spending increased by  6%  last year and that he considered that Great Britain's expenditure on defence would be reduced to less than 2%. He went on to say that the money saved had enabled the Government to promise more social benefits. A few years ago when I was in the United Kingdom some Labor members of the British Government were advocating a reduction in the defence commitment so that, as they put it, they would be able to extend their social services programme. I suppose that is their business, but it is certain that a country cannot spend its substance to provide free this, that and the other and still provide adequate defence and act as a policeman in some parts of the world.  Mr Healey  went on to say that Britain's fighting troops were already cut to fewer than 100,000. He said: 
The reserves are so run down that the Government is having to boost them with a legislative fiddle which will compulsorily double the period of reserve service for 170,000 former conscripts . . . 
Then he went on to enumerate the very great depletion that has taken place in Britain's defence forces. When one looks at that position and considers what has happened in other aspects one cannot have any great faith in the proposition that Britain will transport troops by plane to other areas of the world such as South East Asia should the need arise. That means that there is only one other bastion upon which this country can depend. That is the United States of America. If the United States of America pulls out of South East Asia - and goodness knows the Americans have had their fingers burnt sufficiently - they have been the object of demonstrations and abuse all round the world because of their attitude and because of their attempt to carry out a guarantee that was given by Eisenhower, which was given by Kennedy, which was inherited by Johnson, which was inherited again by Nixon- 
 That is what one man says. If the time came eventually when Australia were threatened, I do not know what the honourable senator would advocate. Would he be like his predecessors and call upon the United States of America to come to our assistance? Would not the United States of America be justified in saying: 'We came once before when it was far from your doors and we tried to stop it, but you would have hone of it. Now you will just have to look after yourself? That is a very real danger and that is what prompted the Australian Government, in my opinion rightly, to enter the Vietnam struggle in the first place. 
Undoubtedly, as the statement says, continuous aggression is being perpetrated in Vietnam. It has been going on for years. The most twisted and the wierdest thinking that 1 have ever listened to has been advanced in an attempt to justify the stand of the Australian Labor Party in regard to this matter. Last week we heard from  Senator Cavanagh  who said that because. 
American, Australian, New Zealand and Korean troops were the only foreign troops, in Vietnam, therefore they must be the ones who are committing aggression. The honourable senator might just as well have said that because American, British, Australian and New Zealand troops were the only foreign troops in France during 2 world wars, those countries were the ones committing aggression. 
 What is the difference? It just goes to show how honourable senators opposite scrape the very bottom of the barrel in an attempt to use arguments to vilify an action which was taken, not lightly, by this Government. No doubt the action was taken with just as much misgiving as has emanated from the ranks of the Opposition. The Opposition's criticism first of all was that the conflict in Vietnam was a civil war. But just how long they can go on saying that in the face of aggression that has been taking place for 3 or 4 years or longer I do not know. However,4 that was the first contention - that it was no concern of ours because it was a civil war. Then the domino theory was their claim. I reiterate that if Opposition senators have any perspective at all they must look with a lot of misgiving at what is taking place today in South East Asia. They must look with much foreboding for the future integrity of this country because what is taking place is sponsored by a power which is dedicated to world revolution and of taking over as many countries as possible by force of arms. 
Yes. We have in this country people whom I believe would be the progenators of subversion in Australia should it ever be attacked. We have them here with us. This force which has already secured a very large part of the world is, without doubt or question, dedicated to world conquest of one country after another. 1 am one of those people who do not believe that it delivers the goods. 
Only in today's newspapers I noted that the Ford company had been offered a big sum to build a motor lorry factory in the Soviet Union. I think it was to be the biggest lorry factory in the world. That is not a new thing. Only 3 or 4 years ago the Fiat motor company in Italy won a contract to build a motor car factory in the Soviet Union. lt won the contract from the Renault company in France and from the British Motor Corporation in London. The contract is to build this factory in the Soviet Union, because the Soviet Government simply was not supplying its own people with motor cars. What amused me at the time was the fact that the Fiat motor company in Italy is the prime target of the Italian Communists. The Fiat motor company is the big bad wolf of capitalism and is a fit and proper target for Italian Communists. But that did not matter. The Fiat company won the contract to build this factory in the Soviet Union and to operate it, because the Soviet had shown itself to be incapable of providing motor cars for its own people. I cannot quote the number of motor cars which the Soviet built, but I know it was infinitesimal. 
That happened under a system which has been operating for 50-odd years in a country which is fairly richly endowed with raw materials but which has not been able to provide for its own people motor cars which we regard as every-day necessities. The Soviet had to turn to the capitalist world to build this factory for it. In that and in other respects the Soviet Union certainly has not delivered the goods to its own people. Yet, as so often has happened in history, people who are not well endowed with the necessities of life and whose governments have kept them in a state of near poverty can be a menace to the rest of tSe world. I remember reading after the French revolution-- 
 I do not suppose you would know anything about it. I remember reading after the French Revolution that in spite of the awful poverty that prevailed in France, the world was astonished that everywhere the lean, gaunt, hungry legions of the French, often poorly equipped and trained, flung back the enemy that was trying to invade their country. There is a parallel situation in the world today. Although these Communist countries are poorly endowed, so far as what we regard as the common necessities of life are concerned, when they have had the guns and equipment they have proved they are a menace to the rest of the world. 
That is right - and you talk about Stalingrad. Anyone who reads Goebbel's diaries must reach the conviction that the British and American bombing of Germany made it impossible for that country to function as a unit. Everything was disorganised and destroyed. However, that does not alter the position that confronts this country today. The Minister for External Affairs refers to countries to the north of us, in proximity to us, and says that they have been granted sovereign rights, their freedom and their own selfgovernment. Of course they have. Only in the last few days I read that a Communist newspaper had said that Malaysia was only an imperialist creation. So if we grant these countries their sovereignty, it is wrong; if we do not grant them their sovereignty, then it is just rabid imperialism. But is that very different from what, the Communists themselves do, once countries become prisoners, as the States of eastern Europe have found out - as Czechoslovakia found out. Once they become prisoners of the Soviet, there is no resurrection. 
The people who malign the United Stales of America for trying to stop something that is coming right towards us, which is a direct threat to us - we are right in the line, and the people of the United States are not in the line - leave me appalled as to their mentality. We have sat in this chamber and we have heard so often, particularly at question time, questions asked about, for instance, the bombing of North Vietnam. I am positive that an independent observer who came here and was not completely au fait with the whole position would ask: 'Do these people want the Communists to win?5 That would be the natural assumption. To any observer, they seem always to have been on the side of the Communists. 
Thanks to the United States and to our own forces, we did. Let me tell you this: Had it not been for honourable senators opposite and their counterparts in the United States of America, the war in- Vietnam would have been over by now. But if they have any misgivings, they dare not express them because they are bound and fettered hand and foot. They are the prisoners of Communist influence, and if they were to say what they really thought, they would suffer a fate similar to that suffered by Sam Benson, George Cole and others who dared to get up and say what they thought regarding the position. They are never going lo tell me that every member of the Parliamentary Labor Party, in both Houses of the Parliament, in his own heart goes along with the policy that honourable senators opposite have adopted and enunciated. I do not believe it. In a few years lime, when the situation in Vietnam falls into its proper perspective, it will be clear and plain that the attitude taken by the Labor Party, the Communists, the misguided Ministers of religion and others in this country, and their counterparts in the United States, started the tragedy that eventually ensued. I hope I am wrong. Noone more than I ' hopes that I am wrong. But we have to look at the facts as they unfold and we have to see them as plain as they are. They are plain and clear for all to be seen. Only the blind, the truly biased and the people who are prisoners of these Communist-front organisations who dare not, for the sake of their political lives, step out of line cannot see this. I thank God that I am a member of a Party which allows me to step out of line and get away with it. 
 The referendum that sought to enlarge Parliament was one occasion. But honourable senators opposite cannot. If they dare to do so they are sent to the nether regions and into the outer darkness forever more. I repeat that I do not think so badly of honourable senators opposite as to believe that they are all behind this awful suicidal anti-Australian proposition that they have enunciated in this chamber from time to time and which is announced by those people who wear this thing on their coats. Lord save me from them. I finish. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Willesee)  adjourned. 
I direct a question  to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Further to questions asked by  Senator Devitt  and myself concerning the encroachment of Russian fishing trawlers into Tasmanian waters, is the Minister aware that there are further reports of these trawlers fishing close in off the north western tip of Tasmania? Has he had the previous questions investigated and will he make further investigations to see what the exact position is in regard to this matter? 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of statements made by people prominent in the meat exporting industry in Tasmania to the effect that the Japanese market for Tasmanian meat is in jeopardy because of a lack of regular shipping, and that this market, which amounts to more than $100,000 per year to Tasmania, has great capacity for expansion. 
If the feeder services to Tasmanian ports were inaugurated, as promised by British shipping consortia, could they also be used in conjunction with the Australian National Line, to improve the service to Japan. 
What is the reason for the delay in the commencement of the proposed feeder services. 
I agree that to the State of Tasmania this is a most important question. The future prosperity and development of Tasmania is irrevocably tied up with shipping. This is a great disability under which the State labours. Whether it be by reason of industrial development or development of the tourist industry, the gauge of Tasmania's progress will be conditioned by the shipping service that is available to the State. Shiping has an influence on every facet of life in Tasmania and it is something that merits the greatest consideration if the island State is to progress as it should. I have listened to  Senator Wriedt.  We have heard him before speaking about the containerisation of Tasmanian products. 1 agree that at the time the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes took evidence some people did not realise the full significance of containerisation to Tasmania. Some people dismissed it because they thought it would involve a very insignificant part of Tasmania's trade - they had in mind the quantity of products that go overseas to the United Kingdom - and that it was a matter about which we had no need to be greatly concerned. But that was not true of all people who gave evidence to the Committee. 
Some very conclusive and worthwhile evidence was tendered to the Committee while it was in Tasmania. Whilst the quantity of produce that is shipped to the United Kingdom from Tasmania is small, nevertheless it is of very great importance. I go along entirely with what  Mr Nicholson  said on behalf of the Meat Exporters Association of Tasmania, that the Tasmanian fat lamb exports coincided with a time when Australian exports from the mainland were concluded and exports from New Zealand were beginning. He said that the Tasmanian exports came in between those times and that it was essential to have a regularity of shipping so that the farmers, producers and others in Tasmania would not be penalised by an irregularity of shipping, that because the other two larger sources of supply were guaranteed regularity of shipping because of the innovation of the container method it was necessary that Tasmania should have the same regularity available to it if it were to place its lamb production to advantage on the British market. The irregularity of shiping is one disability suffered by Tasmania. 
Another disability referred to some time ago by  Mr Nicholson  and others was to the effect that Tasmania had a meat trade with Japan to the extent of $300,000 per annum with a great capacity for expansion and that this trade was being crucified because of the irregularity and unsatisfactory nature of the shipping service. I am glad to find, from the reply given by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who represents the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair)  in this chamber, that Commonwealth officials have been to Hobart and have ironed out that difficulty, and that it is proposed to inaugurate a more regular shipping service between Tasmania and Japan. 

 Senator Wriedt referred to 2 sections of the Australian Constitution. One section refers to discrimination between States or parts of States. I am not a legal man - sometimes 1 have been almost glad that I am not - but il seems to me that the provision which states that there shall not be discrimination between States or parts of States covers matters over which the Commonwealth itself has direct jurisdiction. 1 remind the Senate that this shipping consortium is owned by overseas interests, lt is not something over which the Commonwealth has direct jurisdiction. 
Very little. The consortium owns the ships. The overseas interests who own the consortium do not live in Australia. Because the consortium owns the ships, it can call the tune, to a very large extent. Therefore, I cannot go along with the contention that the Commonwealth Government has discriminated against Tasmania in this matter. I was a member of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes. 
 I am glad to hear that commendation from the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. I recall to mind that in answer to a question by  Senator Cavanagh,  the representatives of the overseas consortium said that there would be no difficulty regarding Tasmania because the roll-on roll-off services were already operating from Tasmania to the mainland. They said that there would not be the same difficulty regarding Tasmania as there was regarding Queensland and South Australia because already there were roll-on roll-off services operating from Tasmania. The representatives of the overseas consortium indicated - and they were questioned about this many times - that the inauguration of container services from Tasmania to the feeder ports on the mainland would receive fairly prompt attention and that it would not be very long after container services were running from Australia to the United Kingdom before exports to the United Kingdom from Tasmania would be included in the container services for the whole of Australia. In reply to  Senator Wriedt,  1 shall refer lo an answer which was given by the Minister for Civil Aviation, representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, regarding the TasmanianJapanese shipping service. 
It indicates the extent to which the Commonwealth is interested in this matter. The Minister said: 
Officials of the Department of Trade and Industry and my Department attended a meeting in Hobart, Friday, 3rd April with the Tasmanian Transport Commission and Tasmanian shipping interests. Shipping services to Japan were discussed. lt is clear that Tasmanian shippers to Japan are not being provided with the regularity of service they wish. Arrangements have beer concluded to up-lift all meat cargoes currently in storage in Tasmania direct to Japan from Hobart at the end of April. In addition, Departmental officers are continuing efforts to obtain satisfactory shipping arrangements for  Tasmanian  exports to Japan for the future. 
Then he said - and it seems to me that this statement fits the case for the provision of container services from Tasmania to the United Kingdom: 
The provision of feeder services-  and he is referring to services from Tasmania to the feeder ports for cargoes to the United Kingdom:  to Tasmanian ports is, in the first instance,  a  matter for commercial negotiation. 
To an extent, at least, it is outside the ambit of the Commonwealth Government. The Minister continued:  lt is currently being considered by both coastal and overseas shipowners. I atn not in a position to forecast the results but as I have said before the sooner such a service could be provided the belter for ail concerned 
In common with every Tasmanian senator, 1 have been to see the Minister for Shipping and Transport regarding this matter. I formed the impression that he is alive to the position which is confronting Tasmania. He has made continuous representations for Tasmania to be included in the container services. Certainly it is not fair for anyone to say that the Minister for Shipping and Transport or the Commonwealth Government has discriminated against Tasmania in this matter. 1 wish to raise a query.  Senator Wriedt  referred to the subsidisation of shipping services from Tasmania. I wish this could be done, I would welcome it, but is it not a fact - and 1 ask  Senator Rae,  if he is listening to correct me if I am wrong - that this would conflict with that same section in the Constitution about which  Senator Wriedt  spoke, that there shall not be discrimination between States or parts of States? Is it not correct that if the Commonwealth were to subsidise Tasmanian services it would have to subsidise all shipping services throughout the Commonwealth? I note that little was said about inadequate shipping space and irregularity of schedules on the Tasmanian shipping services. The Commonwealth Government has spent a mighty amount of money in providing Tasmania with a remarkably up-to-date shipping service. The various roll-on roll-off cargo and passenger ferries that ply to Tasmania have been hamstrung. Their value has been largely cancelled out by reason of frivolous stoppages which have tied up the ships, caused a pile-up of cargoes and inconvenienced peole.  It would not be so bad if it was done for any worthwhile reason. 
It is not long ago that the 'Empress of Australia' was tied up because some of the crew said that the second steward was too dominant and (hat they would not sail with him. After a lot of investigation they ended up sailing with him. Not long ago the same ship was tied up because just before it was due to sail 3 men walked off. The newspapers said that they did not know what the grievance was, but the men walked off, and the ship was tied up. If we are to have an efficient and regular shipping service across Bass Strait to Tasmania, which we must have, then surely to goodness some power or authority must repose somewhere which would cut out the frivolity that is holding to ransom the shipping services to Tasmania and nullifying the vast amounts of money that have been spent to bring these services up to what they could be - one of the best shipping services in the world. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
Could figures released by the Minister, relating to quantities of edible pea imports, be considered as very misleading, as the quantity of imported Surprise peas (which has increased) must be multiplied by 4 to bring it to a comparable quantity of standard frozen peas. 
Has the Australian producers' position been further aggravated by previous imports of peas from the United Stales and Britain. 
Why does UnileverPty Ltd not use its patent in Australia, preferring to bombard the Australian market from overseas, to the detriment of Australian producers. 
I wish to take part in this debate, and I ask for leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry in a position to say whether the United States of America's ban on Australian mutton has been imposed because export inspections are below standard or, as suggested in some quarters, is it merely political because of pressure by what is known as the United States meat lobby? If the latter is the case, will the Government make strong representations to the United States Government and even consider retaliation in kind regarding some American imports? If the latter is the case, would it not be advisable to concentrate more on building up reciprocal trade relations with other trading countries with which our trade is not so ill balanced? Can the Minister say just how long he thinks the ban is likely to last? 
I direct a further question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. I ask: Can the Minister say whether there is in existence in Washington what is known as a paid meat lobby consisting of persons whose principal function is to induce the Administration to reduce as far as possible the amount of meat imported into the United States? How successful are these people, and what means to exclude imported meat are used? 
Does the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry know, or has he any means of verifying, whether reports that I have read are correct when they say that the slaughtering and inspection facilities in the United States do not reach the standards laid down by the United States authorities for Australia? 
When the debate on this motion was adjourned a few weeks ago 1 was discussing the importation of primary products into this country. I had pointed out that this is a world wide problem. Only last week I read where, by action of the governments of certain countries which form the European Economic Community, some primary producers are being paid to get off the land. That move, according to the report I read, seemed to be fairly final in that there was no provision for any other class of primary production on the land vacated except beef production. Overproduction of primary products is occurring in the European Economic Community, the United States of America, Canada and in most other areas in the world. The result is that the overseas markets for Australian primary products have in some cases disappeared and in other cases have been seriously reduced. This must have some effect upon our economy. In point of fact, Australia's economic position would have been much more serious but for the fact that minerals have to some extent filled up the gap caused by the inability of our primary products to attract export income. Minerals have made it possible for Australia to continue on an even keel economically. 
There is certainly no short cut to remedial measures for the primary industries of this country. The position is extremely difficult of solution, lt is quite true that the position of farmers ali over the world is desperate. In my part of the State of Tasmania farmers are desperate. Not long ago I attended the largest meeting of farmers which I have ever attended. Many hundreds of farmers were present. In my view they chased a fantasy because the object of the meeting was to form a farmers union and affiliate with the Australian Council of Trade Unions. 
Would they? 
The object was to conjointly bring pressure to bear in various directions so that the position of the primary producers, by force, would be made better economically. 
Not very long ago the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  had some very astringent things to say about primary producers. He entirely discounted their claim to be caught up in a cost-price squeeze.  His  comments which were reported in the Press, were so astringent that the shadow Minister for Primary Industry in another place.  Dr Patterson,  took  Mr Hawke  severely to task in regard to them. If these farmers did affiliate with the ACTU it would be a case of the lion and the lamb lying down together, but in this case the lion would swallow the lamb up holus-bolus. 
That is right, it could be the hawk and the lamb. That meeting of the farmers was called out of the desperation which is felt by primary producers everywhere for the simple reason that at a time when most people are demanding and receiving more for what they produce the income of the primary producers is going down.  Dr Patterson  in his reply to  Mr Hawke  spoke about the primary producers' costs trebling over the past 3 years whereas the price received by the primary producer for his produce had remained at about the same level. 
No, not entirely, because, as I said a few moments ago - you would have heard had you been listening - there has been a shrinkage of markets the world over. Some of them have disappeared altogether. Until the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission takes into account the economic effect of its findings on the whole community then costs are going to go on increasing. If  Mr Hawke  had his way they would increase to a higher level than they are today. As I said, there is no short cut to remedial action. 
After what happened on 7 th May, if the Australian Labor Party has not dug its grave so far as any chance of winning an election in this country in the near future is concerned then there is something wrong with the Australian people. 
What has happened in the European Economic Community, in my view, has cast a different light upon the subsidisation of products because the European Economic Community has subsidised the primary producers to an extent seldom if ever attempted anywhere else in the world. The result of this subsidisation is that producers are being paid to get out of primary production, except in the case of the beef industry. Some classes of primary production are being destroyed. In addition to that the position of the producers themselves is so disturbed and they are so discontented that they are demonstrating in some fashion to draw attention to the plight in which they feel they are placed, as  Senator McManus  pointed out here some weeks ago. Criticism has been levelled at this Government for not doing what some people think it should do for primary producers. I look askance at subsidisation as the remedy necessary for the present position. In a Bureau of Agricultural Economics publication which I have here it is pointed out that in 1 964-65 the overall subsidisation cost $57.9m. In 1969-70 it cost $193m. Subsidisation more than trebled over those few years. It is perfectly obvious that this has in no way remedied the position. 
I have in this place on many occasions referred to the plight of the pea growers, particularly in my part of Tasmania. The production of edible peas including canning peas reached 120 million lb this year. The average annual consumption of peas in Australia is 80 million lb. It is perfectly obvious that under those conditions there must be distress for the producers. One matter which has distressed everybody so much and which was unavoidable was the reduction of 60% in acreage for this coming year. I am not foolish enough to believe that with a production of 120 million lb of peas balanced against a consumption of 80 million lb, and with the importation from New Zealand making a total of 125 million lb balanced against the consumption of 80 million lb, very much difference will be made to the problem. As  Mr McEwen  has pointed out the trouble in the pea industry has been generated in this country. It is folly to import primary products of any description on to an already glutted market. 
 You would not know anything about it so you may as well keep quiet. You would not know the first thing about it. I was interested to read an Australian Industries Development Association publication. The Association consists of people who have gained some prominence in this country. They held various conferences and I think they have been right on  the  ball so far as the development  of  Australian industries is concerned. I was interested to see that they devote a chapter in their March publication to this New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. It reads in part: 
Another company pointed out that Article 3 (7) was more weighted in New Zealand's favour than was revealed by the proportional import licences granted by New Zealand in return for duty free entry. New trade is stimulated under Article 3 (7) by New Zealand swapping an import licence in return for duty free entry of specified goods to the Australian market. New Zealand issues an import licence for the import of Australian goods equivalent to 90% of the f.o.b. value of the New Zealand content of the goods exported . . . The disparity of 90% as opposed to 100% is obviously in New Zealand's favour. However, there is also the fact that New Zealand's 3 (7) import licences are based on the c.i.f. value of Australia's reciprocal exports to New Zealand. 
New Zealand works this out to its own satisfaction. The passage continues. 
The formula results in Australia paying for the freight both ways, instead of only one way  . . On the other hand the New Zealand 
Government's attitude seems to be that, even though duty free entry from Australia is not proposed, it will not agree to any additional import licences for goods if there is any production in New Zealand of the goods for which additional licences only are being sought. 
That means, of course, what it says. New Zealand will not accept any goods from this country if such goods are produced in New Zealand. They are denied entry. They are kept out altogether. Just how different is the case in this country where we have been compelled under this Agreement to accept Iamb, peas, cheese and other New Zealand primary products when the markets concerned are in a glut condition. This survey goes on further and has something to say about cheese imports from New Zealand. I think it was today that we heard that 20% to 25% of the cheese consumed in Australia was imported, not only from New Zealand but from everywhere. The report reads:   . . cheese imports from New Zealand were affecting the Australian cheese industry from both the domestic and international trade point of view. It was  pointed  out that imports of New Zealand cheese would displace the same quantity of Australian made cheese. 
Of course they would: 
For the industry as a whole to lose sales on the local market lo the extent of 1,000 ions per year is most serious, particularly in view of the current over-supply position. Because of quotas operating in the United Kingdom and the United States of America anil shrinking markets in other parts of the world, the prospects of selling this surplus are remote. It is estimated that at 30th June 1970 there will be surplus above normal stocks of 15,000 tons of cheese for which no market is available. The importation of duty free cheese under NAFTA is seriously affecting the Australian cheese industry and manufacturers and dairy farmers throughout Australia are very concerned about the situation.' 
It goes on to deal with .timber and several other commodities that are imported into this country. The association comes down with the firm opinion that the Agreement is loaded entirely against the Australian producer. I do not like having to say these things, but 1 repeat that it is complete folly to import primary products into this country to any extent under the conditions that exist in Australia in primary production. 
 I have done that.  It  is  of  no use to say: 'These imports amount  to  only 1%, 2% or 3%  of  our consumption. 
They are so small as not to matter! If we have a sufficiency of a given commodity on the local market and we import 1% then immediately we have a surplus. I say that that 1%,  2%, 3%  or whatever it is does infinitely more harm to the price received by the producer than the percentage figures indicate. I do not think there is any doubt about that whatever and I say that the damage is just as apparent and just as harmful if we import these things onto a market that is already glutted. I support the amendment which has been moved by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  but I have some misgivings in regard to it. It entails the setting up of committees and my fear would be that not a lot of notice might be taken of these committees. There was a pea committee in existence and it was told this: 
You are aware, 1 believe, that an important member of the industry is strongly opposed to your Association's proposals. In these circumstances and because the Government would wish to reserve flexibility in its approach to any subsequent negotiations with the New Zealand Government I cannot give you the assurances regarding government to government negotiations in the specific terms which you seek. 
That was in regard to the quantity of peas to be imported under the Agreement. 1 believe that the important member of the industry is a processing company which has works in both New Zealand and Australia. In my view, under no circumstances should it have had any say in the quantity to be imported into this country from New Zealand, particularly as the company made no secret of the fact that it thought it might pay it better to produce in New Zealand and export to Australia rather than to produce in Australia and do the processing here. The telegram goes on: 
It is most important that prior to any discussions with New Zealand the Australian industry reach general agreement. 
Of course that means general agreement with this company which has a leg in both camps. The telegram continues: 
In the absence of such a general agreement the New Zealanders will undoubtedly place great emphasis on the fact that a significant section of the Australian industry does not believe limits on imports are desirable or necessary. 
That means that unless this processing company, operating both here and in New Zealand, is in agreement then the New Zealanders will accept that the Australian industry does riot believe that limits on imports are desirable or necessary. It goes further: 
A large figure for base year imports from New Zealand with a modest growth rate is more likely to lead to an acceptable understanding with New Zealand. 
Of course it is. 1 stress the words 'a large figure for base year imports from New Zealand'. That is one of the worst views on this situation that it has ever been my privilege to read after many years in Parliament. I believe, as I said before, that there is ample scope for a close perusal of imports of primary products into Australia on to a market which is already glutted, not that it would have any very great effect but at least it would be a gesture and it would help somewhat. 
I read on one occasion of conventions in  1898  or 1900. The first 2 conventions were attended by representatives from New Zealand. Then they pulled out and gave as their reason that a central government in Australia was too remote to be responsive to local conditions. It was too far away for the New Zealanders to have any control over it. 1 have never forgotten those words. When I think of the plight which faces the growers of peas on the north west coast of Tasmania, and when I try to bring some influence to bear, I tell the Senate that those words recur to me repeatedly and I think just how true they are. 
I support the motion to set up the committees. I have heard, and we have traversed, arguments relating to a royal commission. I think it may well be that the scope of a royal commission would be so wide and the time taken would be so long that the quickest course would be to set up the committees. But again I emphasise the complete and absolute futility of any inquiry unless some notice is taken of the producers. If some consideration is given to them and if the Government puts in the forefront of its mind the consideration that its duty lies towards Australia's primary producers first and foremost, and that regard for producers in other parts of the world is secondary, we may get somewhere. I do not know of anything which has caused more distress and more heartburn amongst the farmers in my area than has the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. I conclude by saying that never under any circumstances should any sector of primary production have been placed on the auction block and bartered away, partly at least, in return for some concessions which, according to this survey, cause only illusory benefits to accrue to the Commonwealth of Australia. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has the Minister noted reports of a new market for Tasmanian timber in Denmark - important enough for a representative of a Danish import firm to visit Tasmania - which is being hampered by the irregularity of Tasmanian shipping? Has he noted that the representative claimed that the normal shipping time of 2 months had been extended to 4 or 5 months and that that discouraged people interested in the purchase of the timber? Will the Minister have an investigation made of this matter with a view to bringing about an improvement? 
I agree with  Senator McManus  - I believe that the Government does, too - when he expresses concern about the fate of the general practitioner under this revised health scheme. Speaking as a layman, I am one of those people who believe that the general practitioner is the very basis of the whole medical profession and certainly is the basis on which a national health scheme should rest. Without him we would have no medical foundation. We cannot envisage a medical profession in Australia consisting of nothing other than specialists. 
I point out that this Bill was delayed for  3  or  4  weeks.  Senator McManus  would say that was not long enough. But I take it that during that period of  3  or  4  weeks the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  had conferences with the people affected, including the general practitioners associations. It may be that as a result of those conferences it was agreed that claim forms be watched and that an attempt be made to ascertain a drift that takes place from the field of general practice, with a view to taking remedial action. I take note of the fact that the Australian Medical Association said that the drift might be so insidious that it would be impossible to detect by means of a perusal of the claim forms. However that may be, I repeat that I believe that that concern is shared by the Government and that it is a matter that needs to be watched closely because anything that is derogatory of the general practitioner pulls down the whole medical profession. 
I take note of the amendment moved by the Opposition. As always, the Opposition proposes to institute a health scheme based on the graduated income tax scale. I was intrigued by what  Senator McClelland  said in this regard. He criticised the Government for setting up the Commonwealth Committee of Inquiry into Health Insurance - the Nimmo Committee. The Minister for Health set up that Committee to try to devise ways and means by which the health services of this country could be improved. It made certain recommendations - some of which are embodied in the Bill now before us - setting out various ways and means by which the health services of Australia could be improved. The Government has acted upon them. But  Senator McClelland  said that the Committee's report was a glaring indictment of the Government. 
So we are faced with this position: If we set out to remedy a scheme or to improve it and we do the logical, commonsense thing and set up a committee to investigate the matter and to bring forward recommendations, we are wrong; and if we do not do that or if we do not set out to improve the scheme, we are also wrong. So, we cannot win whichever way we go. For years past the deficiencies in the health scheme of this country - and there were deficiencies - have been pointed out to us on many occasions. It is to the credit of the Government that at long last, admittedly, it has taken remedial action in that regard. 
It is something dear to the hearts of many people all over the world that when a health scheme is put into operation the very acme of perfection is to nationalise it and to charge the cost to the public on a graduated scale of income tax. These people seem to think that after we have done that we are well and truly on the high road to perfection. But in my humble opinion that sort of thing - as in the United Kingdom and as in Scandinavia, about which we have heard something this afternoon - contains within itself if not the seeds of its own destruction then certainly the seeds of mediocrity, inefficiency, dissatisfaction and discontent on the part of the people who are served. 
A nationalised health scheme has been operating in the United Kingdom for 25 years, I suppose it must be. Some time ago I read that it would cost more than $ 1,000m to bring it up to the standard in most advanced countries. Furthermore, the United Kingdom has had committees reporting to the Government and setting out to devise ways and means by which the health services - the doctor services and all the rest of them - can be improved, lt has been a matter of very great concern to many people in the United Kingdom that there was so much leeway to be made up over recent years after the scheme had been in operation for a long time, not only in regard to medical services but also in regard to hospital services. Not long ago I read a report that was a scathing indictment of hospital services in the United Kingdom in regard to some aspects of medical treatment. 
I am one of those people who believe that the solution does not lie in the nationalisation of health services. We have been told that the Opposition proposition would cost only an additional li% of income tax. I think that was the figure. But, whatever the figure was, if that proposition ever came into operation in this country and if I were a betting man 1 would bet 2 to 1 that the estimate would be exceeded, tat it would probably be doubled and at the cost would go on rising for evermore These nationalised schemes - especially nationalised health schemes - seem to have something inbred within them which means that the costs mount and keep on mounting until there is taxpayer resistance to them. 
New Zealand is sometimes quoted as the very acme of the welfare state in which everything in the way of medical care, hospital  care  and all the other services is just as it should be. Not long ago I read a statement with reference to the free medicine scheme in New Zealand, lt said: 
Emergency action is being taken by the Department of Health to combat very large increases in the cost of pharmaceutical benefits. . . . 
An urgent call recently brought together the Department's Pharmaceutical Advisory and Pharmacology and Therapeutics Committees to consider what action could be taken to reduce current expenditure on 'free' medicines issued under the social security scheme. 
These 'free' things are uncommonly expensive, as a rule. The statement continued: 
These committees arc understood to have made certain recommendations which are now being considered by the Minister for Health. . . . 
Reason for the Department's alarm is that the cost of 'free' prescriptions jumped by 26% from 1st April to 30th June compared with the same period last year. 
If this trend continues, the current year's medicine bill will be in the vicinity of 6,441,552 -a 1,329,209 jump over last year and 911,552 more than the estimated cost of 'free' medicine this year. 
That is an indication of the difficulty with which the New Zealand people are faced. When I was over in New Zealand some time ago it was estimated that the cost of providing social services in the Dominion of New Zealand was more than 50% of total aggregate income. A lot of growling was going on because the government of the day did not reduce taxation. I pointed out to some of the people there that if it did not cut out some of the allegedly free things, the government had left only about 40% of the total aggregate income on which it could operate to bring about a reduction in taxation. By the time the government carried out its public works programmes and made provision for defence and other matters the responsibility of all governments, it did not have very much scope in which to effect reductions in taxation. These policies can go on and on until in the end they defeat themselves. 
I know that a section of general practitioners has expressed concern about this Bill. I believe that it is a splendid Bill. I believe that it embodies those principles that tend to make the medical profession more and more efficient. It does not destroy the whole castle or pull the house down and attempt to erect something which of its very nature will not be as good. I believe that the ideal that this Government follows in providing medical benefit insurance is a good one. But I think, too, that the great point of concern about this Bill is its effect on the general practitioner. 
 That remains to be seen. Some general practitioners seem to be content with the position. Of course, others are not content with the position. Some general practitioners fear the very worst about this measure. But I ask: Was not something happening to general practitioners before this measure was mooted? I read a statement by a doctor who said: 
The present average age of the Australian GP is said to be 47 years. In another 10 years time it will be not far short of 57 years and 10 or 20 years after that, the GP will be as dead as a dodo, or nearly. 
This was happening to GPs before this measure was mooted. 
 I do not know what a 'dodo' is, but it is a saying I have heard for as long as I can remember. The doctor went on to say: 
I wonder who will care for the everyday sick, young and old in towns like these. 
When he said that he was speaking about the show place of Australia - the north west coast of Tasmania. He continued: 
Who delivers the babies in a  doctorless  town, picks the casualties off the streets and stitches the Sunday footballers? Who will rescue the asthmatic, reassure the frightened and steer the acutely ill to local or distant hospital? Who will govern the crisis of the diabetic, the therapeutic tight rope of the heart patient on anticoagulant drugs, the support of the patient dying of malignant disease? 
Of course, all that is true but I repeat: There seems to have been something happening to general practitioners before this measure was mooted. Only 2 days ago 1 noted a newspaper cutting which said: 
Victoria is experimenting with rural medical centres in an effort to overcome the isolation which is driving doctors out of country practice. 
But, of course, it seems to me - and 1 am open to correction - that possibly it is easier for a specialist to concentrate on one thing and that the remuneration received by the specialist is greater than that received by the general practitioner. Maybe that has something to do with the present trend towards specialisation. But I would say, as one who does not know very much about it. that it would be a lot easier to concentrate on one aspect of illness than to be a general practitioner who is supposed to have an expert knowledge of all diseases. Whether that is the trouble or not, I do not know, but it is a position that needs to be closely watched, because I think it would be a sorry day for this Commonwealth if the medical profession, particularly in the smaller country towns, were left in the hands of people who specialised in only one particular type of disease. 1 believe that that would be an impossible position. 
No, he would not be there. 1 said to my doctor: 'What do you do when you have lo refer a patient to a specialist?' He said 'Sometimes specialists visit these towns. If they do not visit these towns then you have to send a patient a long distance away to see a specialist.' A good deal has been said about the power of referral; that it will still be the general practitioner's prerogative to refer cases lo specialists. 1 believe that that will be the case, that that procedure will still operate, although I think it is a fact that the Australian Medical Association has pointed out that in at least 2 States referral is mandatory if the patient demands it. However that may be, they are things which no doubt wilt be ironed out. 
In my opinion no very definite concrete case has been put up yet which shows clearly and concisely that this Bill will do irreparable harm to the general practitioner. I may be wrong but I do not think I am. 1 repeat that that is a position which needs to be watched closely. Apart from that feature there is something else which has been driving young students out of a desire to qualify as general practitioners and into a desire to become specialists. That is something which needs looking into because, in my view, if that trend continues it will be a very bad thing for the medical profession in this country. I support the Bill. 
Can the Minister representing the  Minister  for Primary industry say  whether  the Department of Primary Industry is in possession of any knowledge as to the standard of slaughtering and inspection of mutton in the United States of America in comparison with that which the United States insists should be maintained in this country in respect of mutton exported to the United States? If the Department has not any specific knowledge of this matter, would it take steps to carry out an investigation, if this is practicable, as to the standard in these matters in the United States so as to p'ace beyond doubt  whether  the ban imposed on exports of Australian mutton is political only or really bona fide? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has he any further information in response to the question I asked him yesterday regarding th-. discrepancy that is alleged to exist between the  standards of meat inspection in the United States of America and the standards insisted upon by that country in countries which export meat to the United States? 
 Is the Minister representing the Attorney-General still of the opinion, which he stated in reply to a question asked by me some time ago, that in accordance wilh Part XII of the Patents Act. which concerns the marketing of Surprise peas in Australia, the reasonable demands of the public are being met by the holders of the patent rights? I ask the Minister: Could it nol be construed that because producers in this country have noi available to them this method of processing their product and because these producers are pan of the public to which he referred, the reasonable requirements of all the public are not being met by the holders of patent rights? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Will the Minister investigate a report that Carlton and United Breweries Ltd was paid a sum of $31,000 because of a breakthrough in the manufacture of hop extract. Is it also correct that this new method drastically reduces the use of hops in the product put out by this company? If it does so, by how much does it do so? Would it not have been more equitable to use the $31,000 in the direction of helping the already economically depressed hop growers to embark on some other kind of primary production? 
Following on the question asked by  Senator Devitt  I ask the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral a question. Part of the trouble with New Zealand pea imports is due to the Unilever company failing to operate its patent within Australia and apparently preferring to manufacture overseas and export to Australia. Will the Minister take up with the Attorney-General's Department the legal position of this company in apparently refusing to make its patent available to Australian producers? 
Would the Minister representing the Attorney-General be prepared to express an opinion, in the event of the Government's off-shore legislation being agreed to by the Parliament, as to the reported contention of the South Australian Premier that it would take a decade or more of High Court cases before the validity or otherwise of legislation could be established? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Does he agree that it was unreasonable for Canada and the United States to place a ban on all mutton exported to those countries, whether the particular abattoirs conformed to the regulations or not? 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General noticed that 5 cases against Tasmanian fishermen for breaches of fishing regulations have been adjourned pending the hearing of a test case before the High Court in which the right of the Tasmanian Government to make regulations concerning off-shore administration is being challenged by the Tasmanian Fishermen's Union? Does this not indicate how important it is that the legal control of the waters in question be decided? Has the Minister noted the invitation of the Fishermen's Union to the Commonwealth Government to share in the costs of the case? Would such action not be another way of achieving the same result as that sought by the Commonwealth in its offshore legislation as to who has the legal control of the waters in question? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise to support this measure and, with  Senator McManus,  1 express my regret at the need for its introduction. I regret that some other means was not found by which the dairyman, particularly the small dairyman, could have been kept on his holding and in production. I say that I believe that if this country loses its small farmers - if this is the first step in that direction - the whole community loses something that is very worthy and substantial to Australia. That is the reason I regret the necessity for the implementation of such a measure as this. Nevertheless, in all the circumstances, I support it. In my view the loan-grant proposition contained in the Bill is a generous offer to the States. 
This scheme was first mooted 4 years ago. I think that it was about 4 years ago that the States agreed to it in principle. About 2 years ago. an officer of the Department of Primary Industry went around the States interviewing officers of various departments of agriculture with a view to bringing into existence a measure to which they would agree and which could be implemented on a Commonwealth wide basis. When one reads in Hansard that the States have received an assurance against the possibility of losses due to factors beyond their control, it seems strange that the States apparently have been lax in coming forward and in participating - that is, with the one exception, Western Australia. 
That is right. The dairying industry is faced with extraordinary conditions. A worldwide glut of dairying products exists. I took note that the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman),  in introducing the Bill, made reference to the possible entry of Great Britain into the Common Market. We have heard that subject referred to for years in this chamber. It looks as though, in the fairly near future, this might well come to pass. The Common Market has a mighty storage of surplus dairy products. Gallup polls show that the British people are substantially opposed to Britain entering the Common Market. Yet, in the current general election campaign, every political party is supporting Britain's entry. So, the people of the United Kingdom are to all intents and purposes disenfranchised as far as having any voice on the subject of Britain's entry into the Common Market is concerned. The electors have no way by which, at the ballot box, they can register a protest against the proposition, which is most serious, which has far reaching consequences for the whole of the Commonwealth and to which, apparently, a great deal of permanence attaches. 
 He is one who has come out on this subject. But I repeat that although every political party contesting the United Kingdom general election on Thursday is in favour of Britain's entry into the Common Market, gallup polls indicate substantial opposition to such a move. There is no way in which anyone who is opposed to Britain's entry into the Common Market can register a protest against such action at the ballot box on Thursday next. 
Be that as it may, I come from a State where in 2 substantial areas - the northeastern and the north-western portions - the holdings are small. The holdings are from 100 to 200 acres. They were designed in that fashion when cash cropping was a proposition that attracted farmers. 1 recall to mind in my boyhood days seeing farms totally under cultivation for cash crops. One paddock of 5 or 6 acres near the homestead was used to run horses and a cow or two for milking. But cash cropping has gone out. I agree with  Senator Prowse,  that it may well be that within 5 years, if costs continue to increase as they have increased and are increasing, the minimum production set down in the agreement will no longer be reasonable. I say further that if costs continue to increase, as they have increased over the past number of years, producers of all description, whether they be great or small, will be faced wilh a difficult position unless there is an improvement in the world export market for primary products. 
Bui to return to the small farms about which I was speaking - and I suppose that a man is nearly always influenced by his own environment - with the passing of cash cropping a lot of the farmers turned to dairying. They installed milking machines and milked a number of dairy cows. In addition to having a dairy herd, they put in a paddock of potatoes, as a sideline which, at times, was a most substantial one, or in latter years they put in a paddock of canning peas or beans, which I have mentioned so often in this chamber. But now the potato industry has been lost to the small dairy farmers, firstly because of the implementation of irrigation on potato farms on the mainland and, secondly, because of excessive costs, particularly of transport, in the Sydney market. The canning pea industry is under threat. At the outset of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement substantial quantities of peas were imported into Australia from New Zealand. This had an adverse effect on these same dairy farmers about whom we are speaking. 
It was with a lot of chagrin that I picked up a Tariff Board report of an inquiry which was conducted into electric shavers. I mention these matters to indicate that all round a fresh conception of Australian primary production has to be taken. The following question was referred to the Tariff Board for inquiry and report:  whether, having regard to the objectives and other provisions of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, the inclusion of electric shavers falling within paragraph 85.07. lt of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff 1966-&amp;8 in Schedule A of that Agreement would be seriously detrimental to the Australian industry. 
After an exhaustive inquiry the Tariff Board made the following finding: 
The Tariff Board finds that, having regard to the objectives and other provisions of the Agreement, the inclusion in Schedule A of the goods under reference would be seriously detrimental to the Australian industry. 
A man would not be human if he did not regret the fact that the same or similar consideration was not given to the Australian primary producer when some of his products were included in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement without reference to any inquiry at all. lt is a matter that makes one think and wonder. No doubt there would be some technical reason given for not conducting such an inquiry, but looking at the matter broadly and fairly, if an exhaustive inquiry is made into a small item like electric shavers and a finding is made that their inclusion in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement would be seriously detrimental to the Australian industry, surely at the outset greater consideration could have been given to these dairy farmers who are in such distress at the present time. In my area it is correct to say that the position of some farmers is so desperate that although they continue to live on their farms they have taken jobs elsewhere. Some of the farmers have allowed their calves to remain on the cows to be reared in that way as vealers while they have gone out to work. 
There is another factor that affects these small dairy farmers in my part of the country at least. J referred to the fact that many of them put in a paddock of potatoes as a help along the road. But we lost the potato industry. It is a few years now since some honourable senators in this chamber began to speak about the imports of processed potatoes from the United States and Canada. At long last the question was referred to the Tariff Board. To my amazement, when ] read the Board's report I found that the reference was only an investigation into the economic condition of Australian potato processors. 
 Not into the general industry at all. lt was purely and simply a reference to the Tariff Board to investigate the economic condition of 3 processors in Australia; to determine whether or not they could endure competition, principally from Canada and the United States. As I said, there were 3 processors. Two of them, Frozo Food Co. Pty Ltd and Potato Products (Aus.) Pty Ltd, were very firmly of the opinion that increased duties upon the goods under reference should be granted. The third processor was Gordon Edgell Pty Ltd, who is by far the largest potato processor and whose annual output of potatoes is more than 3 times the combined output of Frozo and Potato Products. 
Yes. Edgell would not say whether it was in favour of duties being imposed upon the goods under reference. Apparently it was satisfied to continue under the tariff arrangement which existed at that time, lt was a case of '1 am all right, Jack, you can look after yourself. The Tariff Board's report goes on to point out that imports currently supply only abou 10% of the local market. I emphasise the fact that imports currently supply only about 10% of the local market. I wish to point out that when one cannot sell one's product and potatoes are rotting on the farms, as they are during this year, 10% is a lot. The report of the Tariff Board continues: 
Though potato growing is itself not  under  reference- 
In my opinion it should have been -  it is apparent that contract prices offered  over  the past few seasons by Edgells associated company, International Canners Pty Ltd, and by the Kraft organisation at Scottsdale, have been sufficiently remunerative to encourage the more progressive growers to use advanced farming methods and to offer more potatoes than the processors have been capable of handling. It is also apparent that there have been more growers wanting contracts  with  these processors than can obtain them. . . . 
Why on earth was the whole ambit of the potato processing industry and, more importantly, the position of the man who does the initial producing not referred to the Tariff Board for its consideration instead of only the economic position of 3 processors? The Tariff Board should have had to decide whether potato growers in Australia arc able to compete with the imported product. I believe that there will have to be a rethinking on the part of the Government in relation to its policies in regard to the primary industries of this country. These things taken by themselves are of comparatively minor importance, but when they are taken at large it can be seen that things remain to be done insofar as the primary producers of Australia are concerned. I regret the contents of this Tariff Board report because it deprives dairy men of another outlet which they are anxious to exploit. Apparently we prefer to import processed potato products from countries with which we have an extremely adverse trading balance than to extend the use of our own product by 10%, which is a considerable percentage. No reference has been made to this important aspect. 
I support the measure under consideration. I regret that there- is no other avenue by which something can be done for the dairying industry. But 1 look askance al this matter. We talk about borderliners and marginal dairy farms. There are marginal farms in all forms of primary production. There are marginal producers among the industrialists. In fact, one will find them in all walks of life, if it were not for the extraordinary conditions through which we are passing it would, as far as I am concerned, be only as a very last resort that I would agree to support a measure such as this. But the mere fact that there will be no coercion, that participation in the scheme is optional and that any man is tree to please himself whether he will take advantage of this proposal and sell his property to his neighbour has influenced me. 1 suppose 1 have had more inquiries about this proposal than any other matter over the past couple of. years. These inquiries have been mainly from farmers wishing to sell their properties to their neighbours. Only a few months ago a man said to me: 'I milk 25 cows. It has caught up with me and I cannot make a do of it. I want to get rid of my property. I cannot increase my herd because I do not have the scope. All I can do is sell out and take a job.' The same thing is happening all over the country. It is happening at a time when considerable sections of the community are demanding and receiving more for their work and services. It is happening at a time when the men who have contributed so much towards the progress and development of Australia are going in the other direction. The time will come when they will be completely caught up with. This proposal is not a remedy; it is only a temporary palliative. When the time comes that these people are completely caught up with the country will be in a bad state indeed. 
-I rise to oppose the amendment andto support the Bill if for no other reason than that the passage of the amendment would delay the Bill and delay the benefits that would flow from its passage. 
 Uniform taxation was challenged afterwards. Does not everybody at one time or another dislike all taxation? One can say awful things about taxation. Yet in the circumstances I believe that this measure should become Commonwealth law. 
Might I say at the outset that I am one who believes in the States. Probably there are people in this chamber who do not believe in the States. I think it would be a sorry day for Australia if all the governmental affairs of this Commonwealth were adjudicated upon from Canberra. For this reason I believe that the States should have adequate financial resources - resources sufficient to allow them to carry on the functions which they administer under the Constitution. We understand that the States requested the Commonwealth to levy this receipts tax because, following the Western Australian case that went to the High Court, it was found that the States did not have the constitutional authority to levy the tax.  Senator Murphy  said that there was no precedent for this action, but perhaps the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  had in mind the conditions that surrounded the introduction of petrol tax in the Commonwealth. My understanding of that proposition was that it was found that the States did not have sufficient constitutional authority to levy a petrol tax, so the Commonwealth took it over and levied it for them. It is true that all governments over the years have not returned all of the revenue to the States. Nevertheless it is a fact that there is a precedent for the action which the Commonwealth has taken in regard to this matter. 
Going back a little further, I call to mind the first imposition of uniform taxation, something that is somewhat different. I remember so well that soon after the commencement of the Second World War the representatives of the States and the Commonwealth met together, decided that the Commonwealth should take over all income taxation and agreed that that should continue for the duration of the war and for 1 year after. I call to mind that it was always held up as an indication of bad faith that no sooner had the conference adjourned than  Dr Evatt  said: 'We have the power now. We will keep it'. When the Commonwealth took over the taxing powers from the States - that is, the whole of the income taxation power - and uniform taxation was introduced, I do not suppose there was any consideration whatever of whether there was uniformity in income taxation amongst the States. It can be taken for granted without any doubt whatever that at that time some States levied heavier income taxation than did others. Unlike the arguments that I have heard advanced in regard to this measure to the effect that the tax receipts of some States will be increased because of it, it was not considered then by some of the States that if the uniform income taxation proposal became law and applied throughout the Commonwealth some States would have to pay more and others would have to pay less. 
I concede the unsatisfactory position which exists between the Commonwealth and the States in relation to revenue.  Senator Murphy  said that it had reached a climax. I think it has. The position has become more acute as the years have gone by, but it is no new thing. The dissatisfaction which exists amongst the States as a result of the treatment meted out to them by the Commonwealth probably is as old as federation. In or about 1931 or 1932 the then Treasurer of Tasmania, the late  Mr E.  Dwyer-Gray, prepared a case setting out the disabilities under which Tasmania laboured under federation. In the forefront of the case he prepared was part of a speech delivered by the then AttorneyGeneral of Victoria,  Mr R.  G. Menzies - 
I  repent that this was in 1931 or 1932 - in which  Mr Menzies  was most caustically critical of the treatment meted om to the States by the Commonwealth. 1 call to mind that he ended his statement by indicating that if the treatment meted out to the States by the Commonwealth continued along the same plane the States eventually would be deprived of their rights as sovereign States. 
Probably they did, but 1 am one who believes that if uniform taxation were to cease we would reach the stage at which we probably would be penalising some of the smaller States. I believe that the system of uniform taxation lends itself to a certain amount of improvidence. In my view the ideal proposition is for a sovereign State to be responsible to its own taxpayers for the revenue, that it collects and spends. The point I want to make is that this dissatisfaction between the States and the Commonwealth has o-'en going on for years. 
When the late  Mr J.  A. Lyons was Premier of Tasmania that Stale was always in trouble as a result, of its disabilities under federation, and its representatives always were approaching the Commonwealth to try to find a way by which its position could be alleviated. When  Mr .1.  A. Lyons became Prime Minister of Australia he instituted the Commonwealth Grants Commission which periodically went to the claimant Stales - there were 3 of them at the time - looked at their budgetary position, made an assessment of what should be necessary for them to carry on a standard of service commensurate with that of what were called the 'standard States', and arrived at a specific amount which was to be given to the claimant Stales by way of a special grant. I believe that all political parties throughout the Commonwealth would agree that the Commonwealth Grants Commission has done a wonderful job for the smaller States. 
Instead of the Stales and the Commonwealth meeting periodically and having a wrangle over what is to be disbursed to the States, thus inducing a set of circumstances in which the States mostly ask for more than is necessary, having in mind the chance or even the certainty that it will be reduced and that they might come out fairly even, surely there is a strong case for a body similar to the Commonwealth Grants Commission to make a firm assessment of what should be necessary to enable all of the States to maintain a reasonable standard of service. We should not have the haphazard wrangle which seems to take place every time the States and the Commonwealth meet. It should nor be beyond the wit of man to arrive at a system by which the States of this Commonwealth would be reasonably certain of sufficient reimbursement to enable them to carry on their services. 
I call to mind that before  Mr Reece,  when Premier of Tasmania, went to a Premiers Conference he appeared on television and said: "The Commonwealth has to yield to the States some sphere of taxation to enable them to carry on.' I noted that he was careful nor to mention what that sphere would be. It is a difficult matter. But failing the allocation of a sphere or spheres of taxation to the States it seems reasonable to me that, coupled with the present taxation reimbursement formula, some firmer, better and more reliable guidelines should be laid down for the purpose of arriving at a decision as to how much the Stales are to be reimbursed out of this uniform taxation pool. This seems to me to bc vital to the future continuance of the federation as it exists today. 
If these Bills are rejected - and the indications seem to bc that they will be - the States will lose $70m in revenue. 1 take note that in today's Press  Sir Henry  Bolte is reported to have stated that the Labor Party in the Senate was determined to do the States in the eye. as he termed it. 
 That is what he said. He said that the Labor Party would deprive the States of all this revenue. If the States do not receive this $70m because these measures are rejected, there is only one other source from which it can come, and that is from the general income tax revenue of the Commonwealth. This $70m, plus the many millions of dollars that will be needed to such things as the national health scheme that has recently been approved by this Parliament and to which I have no objection, will place an added burden on Commonwealth revenue. There are ever-present and ever-growing demands for reimbursements from Commonwealth revenue.  Senator Murphy  said a while ago that we were the most heavily taxed country in the world. If we keep on forever adding to the taxation burden, and more especially to the income tax burden, we will reach a state of stagnation in the economy. This is one of the things wrong in the United Kingdom. Income tax in that country reached such proportions that it became almost impossible for the people to meet it and the burden tended to stagnate the country industrially. Some people say that any additional financial burden should be loaded on to income tax but they always seem to forget that at a certain level of income tax the country can reach a state of stagnation. There is a limit, and when that limit is reached the consequences to the economy are dire indeed. 
Two or three years ago an assessment of indirect and direct taxation was made, and it was found that indirect taxation levied by the then government was very considerably less than the indirect taxation that had been levied by the Chifley Government. Since then some forms of indirect taxation have been abolished. Whilst it may be said that indirect taxes are levied on people with no regard for the income accruing to them - and so they are - there has to be a balance between the 2 forms of taxation. If the right to levy receipts duties is taken away from the States and they lose this $70m a year in revenue, and if that amount is added on to income taxation, we will without question be imposing a heavier taxation burden on this Commonwealth, which will have adverse affects on our progress and development. That is an aspect which this Parliament will have to consider more and more as the years go by. 
This receipts tax is in operation in every State in varying degrees. If we say that the receipts tax that has hitherto been levied by a State is not as high as will be the case with the implementation of these measures, it seems lo me that we are adopting a very narrow and parochial attitude. It is perfectly obvious that if the tax in a State is increased by the passage of this measure - and I read that in 1 State the increase will be fourfold - certainly more revenue will accrue to that State, and therefore surely it would be competent for that State to reduce its other forms of taxation. 
 I know what politicians are. I have had a fairly long experience of them. Nevertheless, the way is open for them to reduce taxation in other fields if that is their will. If the revenue of 1 State from receipts duties is to be quadrupled because of the passage of this measure surely it can reduce, if it wants to, other forms of taxation. In all this measure will have positively no adverse affect on the States. I support this measure. If the Prime Minister was certain that Parliament would agree to it- 
 The precedent has been created. Before uniform taxation was implemented, the Commonwealth came to an agreement with the States without the consent of Parliament. As I understand it, when the States found that they could not levy petrol tax the Commonwealth, without the consent of Parliament, agreed to do it. But I do not know for certain about this; that is too long ago for me. 
I preface my question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, by pointing out that it is stated in the last available report of the Australian National Line that only 40,219 tons of cargo were carried to Darwin, at a loss of $740,000. Can the Minister state approximately how many shiploads are involved in those figures? Can he also inform the Senate whether ways and means of transporting overland that comparatively small amount of cargo have been considered in order to avoid the extraordinary loss which, in the ultimate, must be borne by other ANL shipping services which in the aggregate accrued a profit of over Sim? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the last report of the Australian National Line shows losses aggregating approximately $2.5m, yet overall the profit of the Line was more than Sim after income tax had been paid? Will the Minister arrange to have these figures broken down in more detail so that it may be apparent how these losses were recouped and changed into a profit of more than Sim? 
I have listened to this discussion with a lot of interest. I listened to  Senator Milliner  with a lot of interest. The proposal we are discussing has been put forward as an urgency motion. Of course, I have no quarrel with that al all. The Opposition is entitled to bring this matter forward as an urgency motion, because it refers to a problem of urgency. But the point is that it has been a problem of urgency for the past decade or longer. For years honourable senators in this place -  Senator Wright  was one of them - and men throughout Australia have been warning the people as to what must eventually happen unless something was done to halt the spiral of wages chasing prices, ever onwards and upwards. They warned that unless something was done to halt the spiral, eventually the primary producer's profit margin would get less and less until it ultimately disappeared and that when it did disappear there would be real trouble. That is the present position. That is what is wrong today. The whole situation has caught up with the primary producer until his profit margin has gone. 

 Senator Milliner referred to price control. He said that this Government did not have the moral courage to embark upon a policy of price control. I think I am quite correct when  1  say that the Government has no constitutional authority so to do. Of course, I do not approve of price control. I am one of those people who believe that, wherever price control has been tried, in the main it has only aggravated the position which it has set out to heal. I recall to mind that in the time of Chifly or Curtin - I forget which - a question concerning power to implement price control was placed before the Australian people and they very substantially rejected the proposition to vest the necessary power in the Commonwealth Government. So it is sheer nonsense to talk about getting down to the root cause of the trouble by this Government instituting a policy of price control. The Government would be aiming to do something for which there is no constitutional authority. 
During this debute we have heard Opposition senators castigated from this side of the chamber. I do not bracket them all in the one category. We have heard  Mr Hawke's  name mentioned. When  1  criticise  Mr Hawke  for some of the statements he has made  1  am in very good company because 2 or 3 months ago  Mr Hawke  made a statement on primary industry which so offended the susceptibility of  Dr Patterson,  the Opposition's shadow Minister for Primary Industry in the House of Representatives, that  Dr Patterson  forcefully took  Mr Hawke  to task for making the statement.  Dr Patterson  said: 
I reject the forceful conclusions of  Mr Hawke  that the cost-price squeeze amounts to little more than a plea for maintenance of a rural production structure which includes a substantial number of inefficient marginal producers. 

 Mr Hawke attempted to establish that the cost-price squeeze is grossly over-rated as a farm problem. He seemed to regard il as just a whinge by inefficient farmers. 
I say without any hesitation that I come down on the side of  Dr Patterson  in this regard. Various methods to alleviate the problem have been suggested. 1 believe that whatever is done eventually will be nullified; it will be counted out unless something is done to halt this spiral of wages chasing prices which 1 believe is gathering momentum and which I believe is one of the causes - not the sole cause - of the predicament in which the primary producer finds himself. 
The motion refers to the urgent need for the reconstruction of the rural economy. How do we do that? How do we achieve it? To put it in simple words, we would achieve it if we could give to the primary producer a return commensurate with his cost of production and with his cost of living. I do not know how we could achieve that in all the circumstances that exist today, because it has been pointed out by  Senator Sim  that this is a world-wide problem and that our traditional markets have either been drastically reduced or have disappeared.  
There is an urge the world over for self sufficiency in the production of foodstuffs, and the upsurge in primary production the world over has had its repercussions in this country until we have reached the position where nearly everything we produce is in glut supply. Beef is an exception. How do we attempt to obviate this? These conditions have caused people who were forecasting a terrific food problem in the world by the end of this century to revise their estimates and to come down with the conclusion that the food production potential of the world has hardly been scratched and that it could support a much greater population than at present. Now people come along and suggest temporary measures. A lot of them are small in themselves and do not provide all the answers by a long way. 
I come down on the side of the farmers organisations in Tasmania when they say that the position of the Collins Street farmers whom they talk about should be looked at. These people are in a wonderful position because of owning some business or other, and to get rid of some of their surplus and to take advantage of the income tax concessions that are available to primary producers they purchase a farm. I believe, and I have always said, thai a very keen look should be taken at the importation of primary producers at this time, whether they are imported under an agreement or not. This is a matter of urgency and I believe that it is more urgent than ever that the primary producer should have complete predominance in his own local market. 
It is good to see that the Government is providing concessions to help overcome the indebtedness of primary producers. I was interested to note in a reply to a question asked by  Senator Byrne  that this same proposition was in operation in all the States some years ago. According to the reply that was furnished to  Senator Byrne  the legislation provided that the Commonwealth could make grants to the States up to a total of $24m. When the Act was suspended in 1943 advances totalling nearly SI 6m had been made in debt adjustments through the agency of the States. I have said many times that the man who is established and owns his own property has a good chance of survival for a time. If the position worsens he will, of course, be threatened but the farmer who has a substantial interest bill to meet is in an impossible position. I say that without any hesitation. Therefore I look upon it as a matter of urgency that the Government should press on to something on the lines I have just mentioned to try to relieve the burden of interest that has to be met by some of these people who are not so well established. 
I know that there is a substantial amount in those funds in the States. 
Yes, there are several million dollars which have not been expended. Whether it would be a proposition still to expend that amount of money in the present circumstances I do not know; but. be that as it may, it is good to see that the Commonwealth is investigating the position. It is sincerely hoped that some relief will be given, especially to those people who have interest bills to meet, because it seems to me that their position must be infinitely worse than the position of the established man. I believe that the position will worsen unless something is done to halt continually rising costs. In his dissertation, the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  said: 
It is a major fact of experience that average wage and salary earnings have for long been rising faster than productivity and that, in the past year or so, the gap between the two has widened. Over the 10 years to 1968-69 weekly earnings rose at an annual average rate of 5.4%. Productivity in that decade rose by about 2.5% per year. There was thus an average gap of something just under 3%. The average annual rate of increase in consumer prices in that period was 2.4%. 
So we have reached the position over a decade where wages and profits - which, in many cases in my view, are too great - have been rising at a rate faster than that of productivity. There is a gap of 3%. It seems to be perfectly obvious that that gap must be bridged by the person who cannot pass it on, that is, the primary producer. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Were representations made on behalf of pea growers and processors for Commonwealth assistance for refrigeration, which is surprisingly expensive, of last year's surplus crop which was estimated at 50% above the Australian consumption? What was the result of those representations? Was consideration given to the fact that pea growers were not granted any devaluation compensation and that on the contrary it was estimated that devaluation in New Zealand meant a tariff reduction to that country, with its advantage of very much lower production costs, of 20%? Can the Government, if it has not already done so, give fresh consideration to this request? 
The honourable senator flagged the substance of the question he was proposing to ask me; so I sought some information on the matter from the Department of Trade and Industry. It is my understanding that the Minister for Trade and Industry has not received representations on behalf of pea growers and processors for Commonwealth assistance for refrigeration and that pea growers have not been granted devaluation compensation. Honourable senators will be aware that in 1966 the Government established a panel comprising representatives of growers and processors of peas and beans, together with officers of the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Primary Industry. The panel provides a forum for discussion of the industry's problems and aready means of communication between the industry and the Government. The panel has devoted a great deal of attention to the question of competition from New Zealand. In fact, a second panel, comprising representatives of growers and processors and officials from both Australia and New Zealand, has also been established. It has been successful in securing agreement between the industries of both Australia and New Zealand on the level of exports from each country to the other. The Government would consider the panel to be the appropriate industry body to make representations on behalf of growers and processors. It would, of course, give consideration to any representations seeking assistance to the industry. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that Tasmanian exports of abalone meat and aluminium ingots to Japan, amounting to $lm per year, have again been placed in jeopardy because of the cessation of the  Tegular  Tasmania to Japan shipping service? Will the Minister take up with the shipping line concerned and with the Australian National Line the possibility of applying common freight rates as with the United Kingdom-Australia trade to Tasmania, or at least investigate ways of mitigating the expensive trans-shipping costs to mainland ports if this direct service is discontinued? 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that there are delays in the installation of telephones in Tasmania, especially in the Devonport area, of up to 18 months from the time of application? Will the Minister inquire into this matter with a view to obviating such a long period of inconvenience. 
 I see no reason to doubt the statement that he made and I suppose the honourable senator has a copy of it. But the point I make is that not only is an increase in wages vain and useless without accompanying increases in productivity but also the spate and growing number of ruinous, wasteful, useless strikes which seem to have become the order of the day in the Australian community have done more to erode the value of pensions and people's incomes than anything else that I can think of. 1 was interested to read that Great Britain, even under the administration of a Labour government, was faced with precisely the same position. A report on the situation in Britain stated, in referring to the situation this year: 
In the first 7 months 6,054,000 days were lost compared with 3,101,000 in January to July last year. In the whole of last year, which was a very bad year for strikes, the total was only 6,846,000 days lost. During most of the 1950s the number of days .lost was significantly below 3 million a year, but in 1968 the figure rose to 4,690,000.  lt has gone onwards and upwards since then. 
 In the first 7 months of this year 6,054,000 days were lost compared with 3,101,000 in January to July last year. So the number doubled over the same period in the succeeding year. But I go on to say that we should take stock of our own position because the report states that the increase is a direct result of a surrender to the Trade Union Council of antistrike legislation by the previous Prime Minister,  Mr Wilson.  That is what happened in the United Kingdom. 
When this Budget was first brought down it was reported in the Press and the Australian Council of Trade Unions called for at least a stoppage or a demonstration.  Mr Hawke  denied that the action was designated as a strike. I am not disputing that. 
 Then it was a strike. If it was in relation to this Budget and if those responsible called for the stoppage because they thought that John Citizen in Australia was getting a raw deal from the Budget, they were saying in effect: 'We will bedevil him a bit more; we will cause him more inconvenience; we will dislocate his services and, furthermore, we will strike one more little blow towards the erosion of his pension.' That is precisely what this action amounts to. Some time ago when Princess Anne visited a university in this city a demonstration was held. That was just about the most asinine thing  I  have ever heard of. This teenage girl went to the university and witnessed a demonstration about the treatment of our Aboriginals - something that she positively had nothing to do with. When she saw the demonstration she asked: 'What has all this to do with me?' I thought that the demonstration was the most imbecile proposition that I had ever read about. But when this man comes out in protest against a Budget of which he disapproves and says, in effect. We will make things just a little bit tougher for the people who we feel are injured by or have failed to get redress from the Budget', that beats the demonstration about the Aboriginals which confronted Princess Anne when she went to the university. If the arbitration system as we know it in this country is to be bypassed and repeatedly is to give way to tactics adopted by the militant trade unions, I wonder what our ultimate future will be. 
 The honourable senator should read the statement made by the Secretary of the builders labourers union. 
Debate interrupted. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate in a position to say whether any approaches have been made by the State Government of Tasmania to the Commonwealth Government with a view to securing Commonwealth relief from recent flood damage in that State? If representations have been made, has any decision been arrived at by the Commonwealth as to what assistance will be granted? 
The Commonwealth Government naturally is concerned about the unfortunate effects of the floods in Tasmania. I can say, for instance, that the Army was able to provide considerable assistance in support of rescue work that was necessary at the time. A request for Commonwealth financial assistance has been received by the Commonwealth from the Tasmanian Government. That request would be from the Tasmanian Premier, ft is being given very prompt and careful consideration at the present time. I am not in a position to go beyond that today. 
When I spoke previously I referred to the position of primary producers in this country.  I  note that the Opposition has moved an amendment which includes the words 'restructuring of stricken primary industries'. That is a most desirable end, but during the course of this debate we have not heard any practical method advanced as to how this can be done. There is nothing new about the position through which primary industries are passing. I believe that at least twice in my lifetime conditions in primary industries have been as bad as they are today. But there is a difference. Never before has the primary producer had to face up to the exorbitant cost system under which he is compelled to operate today. 1 believe that in most cases the great factor facing the primary producer is that his margin of profit has disappeared. This factor does not face the primary producer in the dairying industry and the beef industry. The primary producer is in this position with regard to almost every aspect of production and his profit margin has gone. 
 I agree that he cannot expand. The depletion and constriction of his traditional markets have been tragic and have been among the factors which have caused his decline. But he has had to face up to the restriction brought about by a loss of markets and a cost system in which costs are always increasing until he is no longer able to meet them. I believe that, apart from those in drought stricken areas, the man who owns his property, who does not have a heavy debt commitment or an interest bill to meet each year, has a chance to survive. He has to tighten his belt to be able to carry on. But in my opinion the man who has to meet an interest bill is in an almost hopeless position. For that reason it is good to see that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  is giving consideration to interest bills that primary producers find themselves compelled to meet. 
In referring to cost rises borne by primary producers, I do not for a moment place all the blame for these rises on the shoulders of trade unionists, although much of it can be attributed to them. I have a publication by the Secretary of the Productivity Groups Advisory Council in which he speaks of obsolete methods indulged in by the management of some of our industries in Australia. He speaks of factories running at about half their capacity and mentions many other factors which, he claims, militate against cheap production. He ends with a statement that appeals to me very greatly and should appeal to the Opposition. He says that getting a better return from the same resources enables the nation to spend more on education and social services without having to short-change investment in the future and provisions for defence to do so. The truth of that remark is perfectly obvious. But let us consider another aspect to which I was referring when I spoke previously in this Budget debate. I mentioned the spate of strikes in the United Kingdom and what was described as a boom year for strikes. The report to which I was referring mentioned that the number of days lost through strikes had doubled and in some cases had more than doubled over a few months. The report ended with the comment that some people suggested that the increase in strikes over the previous 12 months was a direct result of a surrender by the previous Labour Prime Minister,  Mr Wilson,  to the Trade Union Congress on the matter of anti-strike legislation. 
If we come back to a consideration of the position in Australia we find that we are in much the same position as that in the United Kingdom. It was only a few days ago that the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  made a statement in which he said that strikes and rising wages - by which he meant rising wages which did not take with them a rise in productivity - were a threat to the growth of the Commonwealth. That seems to me to be so perfectly obvious as to be beyond argument. A lot of Australians are alarmed because we have reached the position in this country where, in the main, only those people who strike receive benefits from the arbitration tribunals. 1 believe that this is a most frightening position to exist industrially in any country. 
A few months ago I attended a meeting at Launceston called by an organisation which was not content with the position in which it found itself. This organisation spent a lot of money taking its case to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, only to be met with a deadlocked decision - I think the result was 2 to 2. I was impressed with the case which the organisation put up. I thought it a good case. I. said to members of the organisation: 'Why have you had so much trouble uplifting your conditions to a standard which is commensurate with the conditions of your counterparts in other parts of the world?' The conditions which existed in the United States of America, Canada. New Zealand and the United Kingdom had been referred to at that meeting and there seemed to me to be a great disparity between the conditions which exist in those countries and the conditions which exist in Australia. 1 repeat that I thought that this organisation had a good case. I said: 'Why have you had such difficulty in getting your case heard and securing a decision, which is favourable or unfavourable to your organisation?' One member of the organisation replied: lt is simply because we do not. strike, but if the conditions go on as they are we will be compelled to take some action'. Is the state of industrial lawlessness - that is the only way one can describe it - which has been bedevilling the Australian economy for the past few months due to a decision by the Communist Party in Australia to launch a campaign against industrial law and order? 
 A report of the decision appeared in the Press. I suppose the honourable senator has read it. That is what was decided upon. The campaign would be conducted, of course, through the agency of the Communist dominated trade unions. I was amazed when I read a statement made by the Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Builders Labourers Union.  Mr Mundey,  who is a member of the Communist Party, concerning the industrial unrest which exists at present. Honourable senators should remember that a few months ago m Sydney there was a lot of wilful destruction of property by members of the Builders Labourers Union. The appalling thing is that, as a sequel to the strike, last week  Mr R.  H. C. Watson of the Arbitration Commission brought down a decision on the claims of the builders labourers which effectively gave wage increases of close to the $6 a week claim which had stimulated the strike. 
 There is something wrong with the arbitration system if an arbitration commissioner can be bedevilled into taking such action by wilful destruction of property and other activities by builders labourers. If, after such things have happened, these people can, through the Arbitration Commission itself, get what they demanded in the first place there is something wrong with the system. The action which should have been taken is the placing of their claims at the bottom of the list. The Arbitration Commission should have delayed hearing their claims in such a way that any inference that they had been rewarded for their actions could not be canvassed. It is worth quoting what the Secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Builders Labourers Union had to say because I would say that the Builders Labourers Union would be regarded as a fairly responsible organisation. 
 The 'Australian Financial Review'.  His  remarks appeared in other newspapers, too. This is not the only newspaper in which I have read them.  Mr Mundey  is reported as saying that private property was smashed where arrogant employers ignored the democratic decisions of mass meetings. Why should employers take any notice of the democratic decisions of mass meetings?  Mr Mundey  is also reported as saying: 
It was this destruction of private property which struck fear to the very hearts of the employing class. 
If a relatively small union could successfully mount such an attack, what could be achieved by the more powerful unions with more resources if they acted in a similar way? 
The article continues: 
Predicting longer strikes and total stoppages,  Mr Mundey  says that tactics in strikes particularly since 1949 have been so tailored as to give a high priority to the penal powers threat and thus the need to 'get them back to work' to avoid fines. 
The general idea among officials was to try to win strikes quickly, and, failing that, to beat a retreat and make the best of it, he says. 
The next paragraph of this article is very significant indeed. It states: 
With the removal of some of the teeth from the penal powers in May 1969, longer strikes including general strikes are likely to become the order of the day.' 
This is what will happen as a result of the amendment by this Parliament during the last session of the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. In my opinion this indicates the absolute impossibility of placating a Communist. It has been proved internationally and domestically that the more you placate a Communist the more he will demand and the less amenable he will be to reasoning. If the present industrial lawlessness is to continue and costs continually increase not only will primary producers be put out of action altogether but also, to put it mildly, the economy of this country will be placed in a very parlous position indeed. If the primary producers in Australia could be so organised - and this has been mooted - as to be able to say to the general public: 'You will not get another ton of food until you dance to our tune' the boot would be on the other foot. It would not be a laughing matter if the professional people were to say: 'We are not going to provide you with any services until you do what we want you to do'. Because one section of the community is so constituted that it is in a position to bring unified pressure of a lawless nature on the rest of the community, it can hold the rest of the community to ransom. That is the position. If this country is to go forward this lawlessness must come to an end. 
I believe this Government has to give a lead in making lawlessness come to an end because nothing is more certain than that the great majority of people in this country would follow without question a government which gave a strong, positive lead in these matters and which came out stoutly in defence of the law and showed the people of the Commonwealth that it firmly intended to uphold the law. You get nowhere by equivocation. 1 speak as a man who has been on the land all his life. I say without hesitation that if all these costs, whether through mismanagement or industrial anarchy - and that is what it is - keep on going up and up as they have done over the past 12 months or so without a commensurate increase in productivity, to talk about reconstruction of primary industries wiil be just a vain and foolish dream, because it will be positively impossible of accomplishment. Not only will the primary producers go down the drain but the rest of the economy will go down the drain with them. One has to bear in mind that some people in key positions have a vested interest in the destruction of the Australian economy. That is all I want to say. I agree with the Treasurer  (Mr Bury).  I have spoken about something which, as he described it, is of No. 1 priority because if this situation keeps going on and on one thing is perfectly certain and that is that it will catch up with the whole of the economy of the Commonwealth. 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, ls the Minister aware that a company calling itself Associated Products and Distribution Pty Ltd has taken up a large area of land in South Australia and installed irrigation facilities and, according to Press reports, proposes to install a $l.25m pea processing factory? Should this proposition go ahead as reported will it not short circuit the severe acreage quota restrictions - in some cases amounting to a 60 per cent reduction on last year's acreages - imposed by pea processing factories throughout Australia on individual growers with a view to counterbalancng the tremendous over-production in Australia last year? In what way can this company be compelled to accept similar limits on its production to those imposed upon other primary producers of this product in the Commonwealth? 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General noted a report in today's Press that all pea processors throughout Australia have increased their wholesale prices by 30 per cent, apparently by mutual agreement, and tha; it is claimed retailers will be compelled  to  do likewise because they will not be able to secure supplies from other sources? Will not this action by the processors tend to encourage the import of peas and other frozen vegetables from overseas? Can the Minister express an opinion - perhaps in clue course - as to whether this action constitutes collusion under the Trade Practices Act? 
In all the time that I have been in this place and have seen successive budgets introduced which have provided for increased social service benefits, the Opposition at all times has claimed, when the relevant legislation has been brought before the House, that the proposed benefits were not enough. I suppose I could take that further and say that in the view of the pensioners themselves the proposed benefits are never enough. If we go back to the time when pensions were instituted, probably 50 years ago, I expect that every Opposition since then has made the claim, during the progress of the budgetary measures through each House of the Parliament, that the pensions were inadequate and did not recognise the exigencies of the age pensioners. That has always been the case and I suppose it always will be the case while pensioners are a matter for annual Commonwealth legislation. With the passing of the years one becomes accustomed to the strictures of the Opposition in regard to any proposal that is brought forward in relation to social services. 
I say that this Budget provides for a payment of  SI,  143m from the National Welfare Fund, an increase of  SI  30m over last year's allocation or, in other words, an increase of almost 10 per cent. 
Age pensioners have received an amount commensurate with the movement in the consumer price index. 
 Mr Bury  has worked this out and I have no intention of arguing about a decimal point. I notice that  Senator Poke  said that it amounted to an decrease of 2 per cent, but I would say that overall the proposed pensions just about break even by comparison with the pensions that were provided for in last year's Budget. The increased appropriation from the National Welfare Fund has been channelled into other directions. Millions of dollars have been spent in giving effect to the Government's promises in regard to health. In addition, a promise to reduce taxes on lower and middle incomes has been honoured. No matter how we may disagree with some of the provisions of the Budget and irrespective of the many suggestions that could be advanced as to how proposals could be implemented, as I said during the Budget debate, I suppose there would be complaints and people would disagree with most of them. 
I do not intend to waste any time comparing the amount of pension that was paid in the time of the Chifley Government of 20 years ago with the amount that is paid by this Government today. We have heard it worked out by various honourable senators who have taken part in the debate. They have used the consumer price index and all the rest and compared today's pension with Chifley's pension scheme. On balance, when you take the fringe benefits that are being paid today and add them to the pension, it may well be that the treatment of pensioners today is very much more generous than it was 20 years ago. In that regard I was interested  in a statement made by the last Labor Prime Minister. Although 20 years have elapsed since the statement was made, what he said then holds good today. He said. 
The Australian Labor Party, and particularly myself, would have liked to have seen several measures introduced in this country, including a scheme of national superannuation. 
Some time before that, in the time of the Lyons Government, a scheme of national superannuation was introduced. That scheme was agreed to by both houses of the Parliament but it was never proclaimed as law and so was never implemented. Chifley went on to say: 
I think that it will be possible in the days to come to give consideration to such a measure.  1  stress, however, that it could not be financed out of present taxes. The honourable member for Bourke also referred to endowment of the first child. This would cost over 30m a year. Furthermore, the abolition of the means test would cost another 60m a year. It is of no use attempting to fool the people with promises. These things can be done only by the imposition of additional taxes. They are, therefore, linked with the matter of genera) finance. "I he amendment which has been put up by the Opposition commences by claiming that the increases proposed are inadequate. That has been said over the past 40 or 50 years. I repeat that while ever the present order of paying pensions exists, it will continue to be said. The amendment then states: 
Social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. 
The first thing that comes to my mind with those words 'an acceptable standard of living' is that if you need a pension, desire a pension or pay a pension which is to maintain an acceptable standard of living you think immediately of a pension at least equivalent to the basic wage, In my view there can be no other conception. It seems to mc to be so clear that if that were done under the present welfare fund and under the present scale of graduated income tax, it would be completely beyond the capacity of the taxpayers of this country to pay, having regard to the mighty increases which would be necessary to pay a pension which would, be adequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. As  Mr Chifley  said. the. tax involved must come from the pockets of the people and it would be so drastic that the taxpayers of Australia would be staggering to meet the bill. The amendment goes on to claim that steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. Both Labor senators who have spoken to date in this debate have not indicated in any way how that could be clone. As desirable as it is to eliminate poverty, it is a fact that while there are improvident people in the community - we will have them with us always - there will always be poverty. How on earth can you eliminate it? To eliminate it you would need to change the very nature of many people. 
Sitting suspended front 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
I believe that  Senator Greenwood  made a very good point when he spoke on the Budget. Referring to pensions, he said: 
In short, there has been an increase of 19 per cent in the pension. 
That is over the past 3 Budgets. The last Budget provided for an increase of $1; the one before that provided for another increase of $1; and this Budget has provided for an increase of 50c. So. over the last  2i  years there has been an increase of approximately 19 per cent. Over the same period there has been an increase of 8 per cent in the consumer price index. So, over the past 3 years real advancement has been made in the field of pensions. 
Before dinner I was speaking about the Opposition's amendment. 1 had reached paragraph (4) which reads: 
a contributory national superannuation scheme should be established and the means test eliminated. 
I agree in principle; but no-one on this side of the chamber knows precisely what is meant by that paragraph. 1 take it that the contention would come when those responsible got down to tin tacks as to who was to contribute and how. Ft could be said that we have some kind of contributory system today. I believe that we cannot go much further along the road of expenditure on social services unless some mighty readjustment is made in government expenditure and unless there is a substantial increase in productivity. 
The very basis of prosperity in this country or any other is the ability of the country to produce and to earn its living in the world. Even the Communists found that out when the Soviet Union was compelled, or at least decided, to export art treasures to try to balance its overseas trade. The White Paper 'The Australian Economy 1970' states: 
Over the ten years to 1968-69 weekly earnings rose at an annual average rate of 5.4 per cent. Productivity in that decade rose by about 2.5 per cent per year. There was thus an average gap of something just under 3 per cent. 
That means that costs rose that much in excess of the rise in productivity. When costs are surpassing productivity it becomes more and more difficult to provide the amenities that I believe are desired by everyone in the community. 
I call to mind a factory of which I know and which has on the wall a notice saying: 'Don't work too hard or do your best, or you will go down the road with all the naming rest'. We have to get away from that kind of thinking. I believe that in this country the old-fashioned idea that a person can produce himself out of a job has receded further and further into the background. But that old-fashioned idea carried to the other extreme can be just as detrimental to the economy and to the provision of all - those things that are desired. I repeat that the very basis of outprosperity is our ability to produce and to sell what we produce in the markets of the world. 
This Budget had to be a deflationary Budget. I believe that. We live under near boom conditions. We have probably the highest employment rate in the world. We have more than 100,000 people a year coming to this country, apart from the natural increase. All those people have to be provided in some way with various amenities. It has been recognised for may years past - most of the economists tell us this - that at such times we should increase interest rates so as to curtial private spending, we should increase taxation and we should cut government spending to a minimum. That last point is difficult, especially for State governments, because they are compelled by the very ambit of their operations to provide water schemes, roads, bridges, houses and ali the other things that are required as a result of the influx of people to this country. On the other hand it has been conceded that in times of unemployment or depression the reverse procedure should be adopted, namely, that income taxation should be lowered if possible, that interest rates should be lowered and that government expenditure should be increased as far as possible. 
When we look back over the 1929-31 depression and call to mind the Premiers Plan and the efforts that were made by the various governments to curtail their own expenditure, which merely compounded the troubles we were experiencing, we come to the realisation that as time has gone on governments have learnt to some extent how to deal with these matters. 1 say that because we live in a free society. In my view, the present system is infinitely better than placing the economy in a straightjacket with all the controls that would go with such action. It is better that the economy is controlled in the way that it is today than that we should go the whole way and, as it were, place the economy in a straightjacket in order to correct the anomalies that arise periodically. 
I believe that overall the Government has done a reasonably good job in the field of social services, lt has implemented very considerable fringe benefits. This year it has spent millions of dollars on reconstituting the health scheme. The overall increase in benefits amounts to about 10 per cent of the National Welfare Fund. I believe that in the circumstance that age pensions were held stable commensurate with movements in the cost of living index - while this is not all that could be desired - at least it can be said that the position has not deteriorated, especially in view of the fact that we 'are living in inflationary or boom conditions. There is one exception. One section of the community is going through depressed times. 1 refer to the primary producers. I support the Bill to implement these pension provisions. I oppose the amendment. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary industry. Is the Minister aware that a firm in Devonport - and I believe the situation in relation to this firm is typical of what is happening throughout Australia - has been refused entry into the United States of America of 120 tons of meat held in store, which meat is valued  at 88,000? This refusal could be disastrous for the firm. Can the Minister give any information on this matter? Because of the distress and loss being caused throughout Australia, to producers and processors alike, by what is allegedly only a subterfuge to curtail shipments of meat to the United States, is it not time the Australian Government faced up to the United States Government on this matter which is so serious to producers in this country? 
 ls the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that it is claimed by people in the meat exporting business that as from November the two remaining meat processing works in Tasmania will find difficulty in coping with the amount of meat available for export? Can the Minister say if standards set by the United States of America authorities for hygiene and up-to-date slaughtering facilities have shown variations over the past several years? In the event of new abattoirs being built - this is mooted in Tasmania - anywhere in Australia in accordance with the present conditions laid down by the United States, could the people responsible have any confidence that those standards would remain consistent and not be so changed as to negative their venture? 
 I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the deliberations that will take place in the very near future, or are supposed to take place, can anything be done to hurry up the presentation of the annual report of the Australian National Line for the year ended 30vh June last? Does not the Minister thinkthat it should have been in the hands of honourable senators long before this? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport any information about the reported oil slick in Bass Strait, especially about its origin? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry noted in at least one Tasmanian newspaper allegations of instances of corruption among Department of Primary Industry inspectors engaged in the inspection of meat for export? Will the Minister have these charges investigated and, in particular, call upon the persons making them to substantiate them? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Has the Minister noted the claim by a Press commentator that there is a very large potential meat market in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, a market so large that 25 million lb of meat unloaded at once would make little impression on it? Will the Department of Trade and Industry look at this position with the intention, if the report is correct, of supplying this market if possible? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry indicate how many applications for increased tariff protection have been received since 1st January last? If there is a number of such applications, can most of them be attributable to the arbitration decision in the national wage case handed down last December? 
I understand that 2 completed applications for increased tariff protection have been received since 1st January. In neither case Was the application attributable to the arbitration decision in the national wage case handed down last December. An understanding of the procedure for application would readily bring out the point in terms of time. The answer is: Two and they were not attributable to the December increase. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry any knowledge of a lamb marketing scheme, prepared by the Tasmanian Farmers Federation, aimed at obviating the existing position which compels Australian farmers to market lambs on the local market at or less than the cost of production? The scheme was to be placed before farmers' organisations in other States for consideration, and eventually before the Commonwealth Government. If this proposal has not been placed before the Commonwealth Government already, will '.he Government cause an investigation of this proposal to be made with a view to ensuring an improvement in the unsatisfactory economics of the lumb industry in this country? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry inquire from the Minister for Primary Industry and make available to honourable senators details of the progress, if any, which has been made in relation to a scheme supposedly before the Australian Meat Board to stabilise the price of lambs in Australia? 
 I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, or to whomsoever is the appropriate. Minister. Is the Minister in a position to say whether any action has been taken to move for penal clause action in respect of the strike of members of the Stewards' and Pantrymen's Association and the consequent laying up of ships which threatens to cause widespread disruption and unemployment, particularly in Tasmania? 
 Rubbish. Has the Government considered ways and means of combating this threat to the employment and livelihood of the thousands of victims of this industrial anarchy? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether he has any knowledge of a proposal to release 2 ships from the present maritime strike partly to relieve the urgency of the position in Tasmania and on King Island. I ask him further: Has be heard anything of a proposal emanating from some organisations, I think some 
Labor organisations, that because of its particularly vulnerable position Tasmania should be exempt by the unions concerned from the repeated stoppages of the past few years? I ask the Minister most importantly: Does he not believe that the people responsible for the present sabotage should be pursued with the full rigour of the law? 
 At the outset let me say that 1 cannot help digressing for a moment because last evening I was very attracted by the statements of  Senator O'Byrne  who said that we had entered -into a period of the brotherhood of man, that colonialism was dead and so on. If that were so, I could enter into this discussion with much more confidence. I believe that, if those principles were to be enunciated amongst the Czechs, the Poles, "the Hungarians, the Tibetans and the Indians, those people would be very pleased to .know that such was the case. But, of. course, we know perfectly well that such, is not the case and that we are in the same old world which, if anything, is more of a jungle today than it has ever been over the past centuries. 1 was interested, too, in listening to  Senator Turnbull's  speech. This is the second such attempt he has made. I think he moved a motion along similar lines 3 or 4 years ago and was unable to get a seconder for it. He seemed to take the view that non-recognition of Communist China flowed from the fact that that country was Communist. Of course, that is not so. We have recognised other Communist countrist. He went on to say - he laid great stress on this - that all we needed to do was to make friends with Communist China and trade would flow and everything would be lovely. I was  amazed to hear what  Senator Murphy  said about the invasion of India. 
 I have been very amazed. I am often very , amazed by statements that are made by members of the Opposition, especially when they get into the international field. I would take it that, if a country sent an invading army, armed to the teeth, into another country, ravaged part of that country's territory and killed some of that country's inhabitants, that would be aggression. 
 1 do not care what anyone else says. I do not intend to be led astray by talk about Vietnam. That can be answered very effectively. India is a country that has recognised Red China - in fact, almost to the point of nausea. Nehru in particular lent over backwards in trying to placate Red China. He did everything possible to try to make friends with Red China. And look where it got him. It did not alter at all the. fact that if it suited the convenience of Red China to invade the territory of India it did so. Whether India recognised Red China or not and whether India tried to make friends with the Red Chinese or not, if it suited their convenience to do that, that is precisely what they did. 
As far as trade, about which we have heard so much, is concerned, the Chinese buy on the market that suits them best. I do not blame them for doing that. The next consideration that motivates them is that they can use. and on many occasions have used, that same trade as a political weapon. So, I for one have no confidence whatever in the contention that all we have to do is to try to make friends with them, to recognise them and to send people to Red China on friendly missions and everything will be just as it should be between our country and Red China. In my opinion the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Bury,  summed up the position in regard to Red China very well when he said: 
It has a strong influence in a number of Communist countries and some others. It has extended its support to insurgent movements in several countries both in and beyond the South East Asia region. It is developing an arsenal of nuclear weapons together with missiles. We accept that, perhaps more than any other government, that of China has great domestic difficulties. But it is necessary to point out that the isolation of China from the international community has been largely the result of its own international attitudes. 
Surely nothing could be more true than that. In the conclusion of his remarks about China he said: 
The Australian Government considers that the Republic of China is as much a fact of international life as is the People's Republic of the mainland. There are more than 14 million people in Taiwan, more than in most member countries of the United Nations. The status and rights of Taiwan as a member of the international community must be protected. 
I agree completely with that statement. I agree completely also with  Senator Wright's  statement in regard to the Republic of Taiwan, undoubtedly one of the most prosperous regions in eastern Asia. If it is a condition of recognition of Red China that we must recognise her right to do as she chooses with the 14 million people on Taiwan, surely that is enough to give pause to any idea that we should recognise her. 
We have heard a good deal about trade and about the fact that China no longer requires wheat from Australia. I point out that Red China and South East Asia have been caught up in what has been termed the green revolution' in South East Asia inasmuch as the people of those regions are probably growing more food and, incidentally, more rice, now than ever before in their history. Some time ago one of mainland China's spokesmen said: 'We import wheat from Australia but we export rice to other counties. This arrangement is favourable to China. The export of one ton of rice pays for 1.8 tons of wheat'. Because there is a surplus of rice in South East Asia and because the available export markets for China's rice have been restricted very considerably, there is not the need for China to import Australian wheat. 
 We set up the Australian Wheat Board to handle sales of wheat. That was supported by all political Parties, so fa,r as I am aware. If that is not so, I will stand corrected. In my opinion it was a good move to set up a body to handle the export and sale of this most important commodity, a body freed entirely from political control. I think it must be conceded that up to date the Board has done a reasonably good job for the wheat growers of Australia. For a political Party to write to the leader of a Communist country and try to get the  OK  from him to buy Australian wheat, merely for the sake of gaining political advantage in Australia, has been described as being  on a- par with a letter that Evatt wrote to Molotov, I think it was, prior to the Petrov trial. 
No, it is not. To send an emissary to Red China would only wake up the Chinese to the fact that they could play politics with the trade of this country. Surely no other construction could be placed upon it. If a political Party - a Party which is not the government of this country but is, in fact, the Party in opposition - goes over the head of the Wheat Board and visits a country such as Red China, then it must pinpoint clearly and beyond doubt the facility that is available to the Chinese to cause disruption within the borders of Australia and to play politics. That would be the result if the Australian Labor. Party- -were to send an emissary to. Red China. In my opinion it would be -.a- most reprehensible action. I sincerely hope that in the interests of the wheat growers and of this country generally the Australian Labor Party will not persevere with such a proposition. 1 repeat that recognition of Red China and her- admission into the United Nations involves all sorts of complications. Taiwan is one of them. Another, as was reported some time ago, is that China wants the power of veto. Those things must cause complications. For the sake of extending this  emply  gesture of friendship - that is all it is - to Red China we are supposed to throw away 14 million people in Taiwan. 
They are all enjoying the greatest prosperity of any Asian country, probably with the exception of Japan.  Senator Turnbull  has claimed that we should embark upon this course immediately. I think the Government is right in proceeding with the utmost caution. 
Sitting suspended from 12.42 to 2.1.5 p.m. 
Debate interrupted. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Regarding the 4 ships reported to have been released for essential services to Tasmania because of the current shipping stoppage, is the Minister able to comment on the statement by the Tasmanian manager of the Australian National Line that 1 of the 4 ships in question, the 'Australian Enterprise', is at present in Sydney nearly fully loaded with goods for Japan? 
The newspaper report must be incorrect. Has the Minister any further information about the present hold up which is threatening to close down some major Tasmanian industries? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service consider any amendments necessary to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, or to any other appropriate Act, and also consider any other reasonable means by which the blockade of Tasmania and the serious damage done to Australian shipping can be brought to an end and, if possible, a recurrence prevented? Will the honourable gentleman make strong recommendations, if he has not already done so, to his colleagues in the Ministry regarding this onslaught on people in no way responsible for the dispute by men who are already overpaid? 
I rise to ask a brief question. Months ago it was reported in the Tasmanian Press, following adverse comments from fishermen, that the effluent tipped into the sea from the acid plant at Burnie was to be investigated by, I think, officials of the Department of Fisheries. A considerable quantity of effluent is discharged there. I would like to know whether that report was correct. Has an investigation been made and, if so, what is the effect of this effluent on marine life in Bass Strait? 
1 direct a question to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Because of the very great advancement in atomic power generation, which advancement is continuing and accelerating, to a stage at which it is predicted that in most advanced countries future power installations will be solely atomic, would not the authorities in Tasmania be advised to pause before committal to further large scale hydro-electric generation projects, which some people claim are destructive of tourist assets in Tasmania, an aspect in which the Minister is particularly interested? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Because of the long and continuous glut in the fat lamb market in Australia which has compelled producers to accept cost of production or less over the past several seasons can the Minister say whether every export avenue has been investigated as a means of draining off the surplus in Australia? If not, will the Government bring fresh energy to the task of finding new outlets? Is the search for new outlets a function of the Australian Meat Board or some other organisation? If it is, will the Government confer with whoever is responsible with a view to positive action? 
1  take it that I may speak to the  2  Bills and also to the notice of motion No.  4  on the notice paper, is that right? 
I rise to support the measure before the Senate. I support it not because I think for one moment it is a cureall for the very grave and serious troubles that beset primary producers throughout Australia. I notice  Senator Prowse's  comments relating to the old Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act of many years ago. My impression is that a very long time ago in the State of Tasmania that was a most effective Act. Certainly something very positive and very definite is needed to come to the rescue of the primary producers because they are in a very invidious position today. I notice that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  referred in his second reading speech to the fact that  40  per cent of all wool growers were receiving a net income of about  $2,000  a year. I would say that that is probably an understatement. I would go further and say that if we were to leave out the wool and wheat growers and look at other branches of primary production we would find that the position would be very much worse. In fact we would have to say that in Tasmania more than half of the primary producers were not receiving an amount equal to the basic wage. When we think of that and when we think of what has been paralysing Tasmania over the past few weeks - the people who are receiving $7,000 a year plus- 
The ships' stewards. They are receiving $7,000 a year plus all the extras and they are taking it out of the hides of these people who are receiving so little. It makes one wonder at the gross imbalance ki our community. Although I support this measure I do not begrudge those people the benefits that accrue to them. But we were able to see what would accrue to people entitled to compensation under the provisions of legislation that was introduced m the last few days. Good luck to them. However, when that legislation was introduced I thought of these people on the land and I wondered who paid their workers' compensation. Who recompenses them when they sustain an injury? Who pays them for their 3 weeks annual leave? 
Four weeks leave are received by some people. Who pays for all those things for the man on the land? These are the people who are on $2,000 a year. I want to repeat that it is my belief that in Tasmania more than half the primary producers are receiving even less than the basic wage. This legislation intrigues me. I am like  Senator Prowse  in that I do not like the word 'viability'. I notice that in the Schedule to the States Grants (Rural Reconstruction) Bill the overriding objective is to help restore to economic viability those farms and farmers with the capacity to maintain viability once it is achieved. It seems to run in the minds of some people that viability is governed by the size of the property. I agree that, all things being equal, there is a lot to be said for enlarging a small property. If you make a property bigger you give it more chance of economic survival but, generally speaking, economic survival is not governed by the size of a property. I have seen people on small properties - there are such people today - who, because of their own capacity for work, have made them very viable. Economic survival is not governed by the size factor alone. No matter how many properties one amalgamates; no matter how much bigger one makes a property, no matter what footing one places a property on, rf this inflationary spiral continues as it has there will not be many properties in Australia that are economically viable. 
We have passed through times like this before. I can remember the depression of 1929-30 and other bad times that primary producers have gone through. I can remember reading in the Press day after day headlines such as 'The Plight of the Farmers'. There is nothing new about it except that I do not think the farmer ever before has been in the position where his prices are so completely depressed, on the one hand and, on the other hand, he is assailed with continuously rising costs. He is getting it from both ends, not only in regard to the price he receives for his product but also in regard to the price he must pay for all his production requirements. On previous occasions when he went through bad times he at least had comparative price stability. His costs of production were fairly stable. But for years now his costs have been going up and up, and so far as one can see there is no end to the process. I say without hesitation that if prices keep going up there will not be many farmers in the community who will be in a viable condition. I was talking to a farmer in Tasmania on the telephone tonight. He said he had received 2.99c per lb for his peas. Anyone who knows anything about pea growing knows that that is a completely unprofitable price. 
One might say 3c per lb. That is all he received. 
Yes, but that is not all due to the profit of the middle man. The costs of distribution and everything else are such that the higher the distribution costs, the greater the disparity between what the farmer receives for his product and the price at which it is retailed. The other industry with which I wish to deal is the fat lamb industry. For years the primary producer has been compelled to accept the cost of production or less for his fat lambs. The same thing applies to the bean industry. The farmer has been precluded from bettering his position because immediately the price of fat lambs rises, immediately there is a scarcity of canning peas and they rise in price, immediately beans rise in price, those products come in from across the Tasman, from New Zealand. I noticed  3  outstanding things in today's Press so far as Britain's entry into the European Economic Community is concerned. One of them was the safeguarding clauses for New Zealand butter. I hope the New Zealanders do get those safeguarding clauses if Britain joins the Community but the fact remains that apparently there will be no safeguarding clauses for the primary producers of this country. 
It does seem to me - referring briefly to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement - that the first duty of the Government is to look to the welfare and prosperity of its own primary producers. We are suffering because our economy is in 2 compartments. What we do about it, I do not know. On the one hand we have the industrial worker and the industrialist and on the other hand we have the primary producers and their dependants. The industrial worker goes before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and is granted an increase in wages. The industrialist goes before the Tariff Board and is granted increased tariff protection, but the primary producer has no one to turn to; rather he has to help to pay for this inflated cost of living. That is the basic cause of the rural depression. I have here a record of some of the reasons given by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the increase granted in the national wage case last December. I also have here a leading article from the Tasmanian Press on the subject which I thought was very good. 
I believe that until we can get away from the process of wages chasing prices on and on, and ever and ever upwards, and until we can get down to some other basis, this must lead eventually to economic catastrophe. There is no other way out of it. The article stated: 
The 6 per cent general wage increase granted yesterday by the Full Bench of the Arbitration Commission is, to say the least, disheartening. It won't benefit wage-earners, ft won't alleviate (he real hardship which exists among pensioners, big families on low wages and persons on fixed incomes. It will be a disaster to the whole farming community..... 
Does not what was said in that article bring home the fact that no section of the community can live to itself in this integrated society and say: 'We will get all that we can for ourselves' without that having a disastrous effect on the rest of the community. The article stated:  lt will be a disaster to the whole farming community already impoverished by rising costs and falling incomes. The sole beneficiary from this extraordinary decision will be the Commonwealth Government, lying in wait to gather taxes from higher paper incomes. 
The phrase 'paper incomes' is most appropriate because the increases are only paper incomes. It is perfectly obvious that if remuneration is increased above productivity the extra amount is only a paper income. The finding put out by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission states: 
If in the present state of the economy and in the atmosphere of general affluence which exists in the community we failed to give a reasonable increase we would be failing in our duty. 
The next part of the decision I will read amazes me. The Presiding Judge said: 
In all the circumstances, particularly the nation's current general prosperity, we are prepared again to give the minimum wage earner special treatment and to increase the minimum wage by $4 per week. 
In the decision he also said: 
During 1969-70 the overall picture was a rise in output and employment and, with the exception of some sections of the rural sector, the economy was in a strong position. 
But the decision goes on to state: 
However, demand pressures were increasing and inflationary pressures were evident. Monetary policy measures designed to restrain demand pressures were introduced. 
I am quoting from the reasons which were given for the decision of the Full Bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission granting the 6 per cent wage increase last December. The reasons for the decision continued: 
Although demand, particularly in relation to housing has been reduced to some extent, the pressures still appear to be strong. Indeed in the first months of 1970-71 there seems to have been a renewal of the upward tendency. 
After saying that the economy was in a strong position the Commission, in the next paragraph or so, says that it was in ari inflationary condition. It states further - this amazes me and gives credence to the contention- 
Just a few moments ago I told the honourable senator who said this. He would not understand it, anyhow. The next section gives credence to the contention, often advanced, that this tribunal should not be the prerogative of legal men only. The reasons continue: 
Overall it would seem that some important sections of the rural industry would be in difficulty in absorbing further cost increases. 
But the Commission did not hesitate to increast costs. A further passage indicates the perspective in which many people view the rural industries. It reads: 
We do not consider that the situation of rural industries is such that it should be used to deny an increase to wage earners generally when the economy is in an overall strong position. 
After saying, prior to that statement, that the economy was in an inflationary condition the Commission ends up by saying that the increase is justified because the economy is in an overall strong position. It expresses the pious hope further in the decision - I will not bother to read it - that demands will be restrained; that because of this 6 per cent increase there will be a restraint of the demands for further and further increases. It says that if demands are not restrained the position could be deleterious to the whole economy. We know what has happened in regard to that restraint about which the Commission spoke. 
With that aspect in mind I have here an article which intrigued me so much that, although I hae read it in this place before, I am going to read it again. It relates to the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. It shows the thinking which emanates from some people when they consider rural matters. This was a reference to the Tariff Board relating to electric shavers. The reference was this:  . . whether, having regard to the objectives and other provisions of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, the inclusion of electric shavers falling within paragraph 85.07.11 of the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff 1966-1968 in Schedule A of that Agreement would be seriously detrimental to the Australian industry. 
In other words, if New Zealand sent electric shavers into Australia, would they be seriously detrimental to the Australian economy? After a full scale inquiry the Tariff Board came to this conclusion: 
The Tariff Board finds that, having regard to the objectives and other provisions of the Agreement, the inclusion in Schedule A of the goods under reference would be seriously detrimental to the Australian industry. 
Yes, would be. As a result electric shavers were not included. But the pea grower, the bean grower and, to an extent, the lamb producer were taken like fowls to the block, put on it and their heads were cut off. There was no appeal to the Tariff Board or anyone else in regard to that decision. When one lives among these people and tries to represent them one finds that these sort of things do not go down very well at all. I say that that is one of the things that should be cleared up. I am a devout believer in the fact that the Australian primary producer, because of his payments by way of tariff, almost since federation has built up his own local market. He has been largely responsible for the growth of cities such as Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide because he has had to contribute towards the fostering of secondary industries in this country. Therefore I say witnout any hesitation that, within reason, he is entitled to his own local market. 
I support this measure. I believe that the Opposition's amendment will only delay it. There is an urgent and very definite necessity for prompt and decisive action. With others, I regret that this measure has been brought in so late in the session because I know well that there are many primary producers - to say that they are in a parlous position would be to put it mildly - many of them in my own State, who live on their farms and go out to work. This is very deleterious to the economy. I believe that the primary producer is the very salt of the earth. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. In the event of Britain joining the European Economic Community under the terms agreed upon at Brussels recently, resulting probably in a drastic reduction of exports of primary products from Australia to that country, is it proposed that Australia should continue to import considerable quantities of goods from the United Kingdom, or is it contemplated that these imports, as far as possible, will be placed with countries which will trade with us on a reciprocal basis? Is the Minister in a position to outline the policy to be followed in these circumstances? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it correct that Australia was promised by the British Government that there would be a period of adjustment for exports of primary products from this country to Britain after Britain entered the European Economic Community, or was it that Britain undertook to place such a proposition before the conference at Brussels? Is it correct that the undertaking, whichever one it was, was not honoured? If this is so, has it been brought forcibly to the notice of the United Kingdom Government that it defaulted in this undertaking? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt would not be for me to talk in categorical terms about the negotiations between the United Kingdom Government and the 
Australian Government about Britain's projected entry into the European Economic Community. It is true - all of us recognise this - that  Mr Rippon  of Britain came to Australia and expressed views to the Australian Government, and that the Australian Government expressed its views to the United Kingdom Government. Indeed, the Minister for Trade and Industry was in England and Europe several months ago - perhaps less - and in the name of the Australian Government expressed Australia's views in relation to Britain's projected entry. I can only direct the question to the Minister for Trade and Industry for a more particularised reply. I repeat that the United Kingdom has not yet entered the European Economic Community. Such entry requires the approval of the parliament at Westminister. The matter has been listed for debate in the House of Commons and it is my understanding that the final decision will not be made until some time in October this year. Having given that background, 1 will refer  Senator Lillico's  question to the Minister for Trade and Industry for a more detailed reply. 
 I have heard New Zealand mentioned once or twice during this debate.  Senator Bishop  referred to New Zealand. Tt is a fact that recently the New Zealand Government placed on the statute book legislation which attempts to contain the inflationary position existing in that country, just as it exists here. The legislation provides that increases in wages greater than 7 per cent must not be granted. The trade unions are trying to buck it. They demand increases of 18 per cent, 20 per cent or more. When 
I was in New Zealand a few weeks ago I discovered an interesting position. We have heard talk about the tour of Australia by the South African rugby team. In New Zealand an organisation was formed - I forget its name - with the objective of doing away with all sorts of racial discrimination. It had a wonderful victory in that it scared away from New Zealand a team of hockey girls from South Africa. It was hailed as a great victory, but the Labour Leader of the Opposition in New Zealand did not go along with that view. He differs very much in his views from the Labor people in this country. A Press report stated: 
The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Kirk,  yesterday criticised violence and hypocrisy in demonstrations in Australia against the South African rugby team. 

 Mr Kirk was quoted as saying: 
When a protest in a democratic society ceases to be persuasive- 
Apparently the protests here, particularly in Queensland, were not persuasive - and becomes abrasive, it turns people against the cause they are pursuing. 
The crux crf what he said appears in the report in bold black type, as follows: 
If the Labor Party was the Government, he said, he would not be prepared to tell a sporting organisation to call off a tour by a South African team. 
We have heard from  Senator Murphy  and  Senator Kane  that during the latter part of the last century there was a dire need for trade union organisations to improve the lot of the workers who were at that time without any doubt labouring under conditions of oppression.  Senator Murphy  went on to say that they forged a political weapon. Only some of them did that. To this day only some of the trade union members vote for the Labor Party; not all of them, by a long way. They have forged this political weapon in the form crf the Australian Labor Party. Now it is proposed by the same people, or at least the militants among them, and the Communist dominated trade unions to circumvent the political weapon they forged and to circumvent even this Parliament. I do not think much comfort can be taken by the Australian Labor Party from  Mr Hawke's  remarks when, in my view, he was excusing himself. He said, relative to trade unions in 
Australia indulging in political strikes and similar activity: 
It is like the law of physics. It is inevitable; if there is  a  vacuum, it will be filled. 
That comment was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 24th June 1971. The only construction that we can put on that remark is that he thought that the Opposition in this place and in another place formed a vacuum.  Senator Murphy  went on to say that he thought it was quite right for trade unions to indulge in political strikes and to express their opinions in that way. 1 am one of those people who believe that a trade union or any other organisation is quite entitled to express its opinion on any matter, but when it converts that opinion into an onslaught on the general community and on the economy of this country, when these people inflict hardship upon their fellow workers and fellow men in an attempt to advance a particular political view I do not go along with them. Very few people in this country would agree with their action. In supporting his contention that it was legitimate for a trade union to do that,  Senator Murphy  mentioned employer organisations and said that they expressed opinions, as of course they do. But they do not take punitive industrial action to bring those opinions to fruition. They do not indulge in lockouts and action of that kind. 
It has been mooted that primary producer organisations be so organised as to be able to say to the rest of the community: 'Unless you do this, that and the other we will cut off your food supplies.' I have heard that subject discussed. If this is to be the pattern, why should not any organisation go on the rampage and give expression to its political views in the same fashion as some trade unions are doing today? Along that way lies the path of anarchy - nothing more or less than that. Some months ago there was an illegal strike by the Federated Marine Stewards and Pantrymen's Association of Australasia, the members of which individually recoup, I suppose, 3 times as much as the average dairy farmer. I heard a reference to that effect only yesterday. The action by the union was inimical to the whole Commonwealth, but because of Tasmania's vulnerable position the strike amounted to a blockade of that State. There was a buildup of goods to be exported from Tasmania and for several weeks after that the shipping which was available was not able to catch up with the movement of goods that had piled up during the course of that strike. Not long after that, because the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia decided in Melbourne that it did not believe in the Springbok tour of Australia, it was decided that there should be a fresh sabotage of Tasmania. Good God! Who could go along with such a proposition? 
That is not a sensible interjection. As a result of the action by the Waterside Workers Federation, as reported in the Press in Tasmania and featured in other newspapers last week, there have been substantial dismissals from 2 major industries in Tasmania, those industries being Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Pty Ltd at Burnie and the other similar industry at Wesley Vale. 
I will tell you why they cannot sell their paper. 
The reason is that production was so intermittent and, as  Senator Marriott  said, so irregular that Japan moved in and people who had previously bought from Tasmania began buying paper from Japan. That situation is the result of the imbecilic proposition that ships trading to Tasmania and around the Australian coast should he tied up because  Mr Bull  was not in favour of the Springbok tour. Several hundred people in Tasmania have been put out of work as a result of this action and the manager of APPM has said that it will be some months before the industry is fully productive again. 
I give him all the credit in the world for the stand he has taken. I am one who does not believe in my own State being sabotaged in that fashion for a reason that has nothing whatever to do with terms and conditions of employment.  Senator Bishop  referred to the Clyde shipbuilding yards. Let me remind the Senate of what happened in that industry. Britain lost that mighty industry, the greatest shipbuilding industry in the world, because no-one could be certain as to when a ship would be delivered; it might be next year or the year after. Because of industrial chaos, strikes and similar action no-one who lodged an order with that shipyard could be certain that the ship would be delivered. As a result they placed their orders elsewhere, in most cases with shipyards in Japan. I wonder whether those same people who are trying to reconstitute those shipyards look back and think about the wonderful job they have done in sabotaging that big industry in Britain. 

 Senator Wright referred to the number of working days lost in this country - I think he said because of political strikes. 
The unions went on strike because they did not agree with the Budget, particularly with the pension increases. The way to demonstrate, according to them, was to increase costs by means of a strike and make it harder than ever before on the old age pensioners. Those same lost working days are the major cause, or one of the major causes, of inflation and increased costs in Australia. I agree entirely that until some positive direct action is taken, as indicated by  Senator Kane  - whatever the action may be - we jusl cannot afford to allow the situation to continue. It is little comfort to say that the position in Australia is not as bad as it is somewhere else. The economy of the United States is threatened, and one would be moderate in saying that the economy of the United Kingdom is staggering. Wilson, the Labor Prime Minister, was bedevilled by this when he was in office. I support absolutely the motion proposed by  Senator Kane. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is the Minister aware that it has been proposed, on the recommendation of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, that the new Australian National Line ship 'Echuca', which was purchased at least partly for the Tasmanian trade, be not manned on its arrival in Melbourne because of a dispute as to the necessity for a radio operator on that vessel? What authority adjudicates on the safety of the way in which ships are equipped and manned? If there is such an authority, has it expressed an opinion on this matter? 
I address my question to the Minister for Health. In view of the parlous financial position of old people's homes throughout the Commonwealth, some of which are in almost desperate straits, can the Minister say whether it is proposed further to assist these institutions financially? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the PostmasterGeneral. Because of the particular difficulties regarding television reception on King Island in Bass Strait, will a further investigation be made with a view to the expedition of the completion date for translators, etc., on that island, which I understand has been delayed considerably from the originally intended completion date? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry able to say when the rural reconstruction scheme agreed to by this Parliament last session will be operating? What authorities in the respective States will be handling the scheme? To whom should producers wishing to participate apply? 
With reference to the prayer that is recited in this place every day when the Senate meets, I do suggest that  Senator Keeffe  could add one of his own. It would be in these terms: 'May the Lord help me to be a little bit more charitable to my fellow man'. I think that would be most appropriate. One of the easiest things to do in this wide world is to disparage a fellow man. One of the easiest things in the world is to pour contumely on your fellow man. There are some people who are most adept at doing it and who love every word and minute of it. But we are not here to discuss the merits or the demerits of the people who have been appointed Assistant Ministers. We are not here to discuss whether some person or another in a party meeting got 33 votes or any other number. We are here to discuss whether or not it is warranted that an Assistant Minister should be appointed in this place. I believe that that is the only point at issue so far as we are concerned. 
We have heard  Senator Byrne  and others speak about the disparity between the number of Ministers in this place and the number of Ministers in the House of Representatives. As the years have gone by we have missed out in that the number of Ministers in this place has not increased proportionately with the number in the other place. Although it may be said that  Senator Marriott  was at one time - and probably still is - opposed to the appointment of Assistant Ministers, in my view this does not preclude him at all from concentrating his activities on the position to which it is proposed to appoint him. We have heard it said that a Minister in this place represents about  4i  portfolios in addition to his own. He is responsible in this place to about 4i Ministers in another place, and here we are looking askance at a proposition for some alleviation of the position, minute though it is. Even though we will get only one Assistant Minister in this place we are looking askance at the proposition that some assistance be given to the already overburdened 5 Ministers in the Senate. 
It may well be that if we as a body say: No, we do not want an Assistant Minister in the Senate; we are not going to have an Assistant Minister in the Senate', it will m no way alter the fact that Assistant Ministers will be appointed. It may well be that instead of an Assistant Minister being appointed to this place an extra one will be appointed to the other place. Indeed, I think we would be foolish to look askance at this proposition which has been offered to us. I know that it is a moot point, and some people argue that there should be no Ministers in this place at all. That position pertained at one time but we have to accept the fact that there are Ministers here. I believe that we should do what we can to alleviate the responsibilities they have. It does seem to me as one who has had no experience of these matters that the Health portfolio has tremendous responsibilities which involves a lot of work and a lot of contention. I for one am pleased to see that one man has been appointed to assist with the portfolio at least. I reject the idea entirely that we should not go along with his proposition. I repeat that so far as I can see if we do not it will not prevent the appointment of Assistant Ministers. They will still be appointed and probably will all be appointed  to  another place. 
1 join with my friend  Senator Poyser  in congratulating  Senator Negus  and  Senator McAuliffe,  the 2 honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches in this debate. I regret that  Senator McAuliffe  goes along with run and wrestle, as it is called. He is dedicated to it. It is a great pity that he is not dedicated to Australia's national game. But I do not intend to hold anything against him on that account. I agree with  Senator Poyser  when he says that many old people's homes in particular - 1 mention them because I have" had some first hand experience of them lately - are in an extremely embarrassed position financially. The Minister for Health  (Senator Anderson)  has said that their position is currently being examined. But the managements of both of the homes with which I have been connected have told me that their position is due almost entirely to the spiralling of costs. In that regard the position is changing continually. Institutions, firms and people - in fact everybody - must feel the stress of these continually increasing or spiralling costs. 
I have seen a good many Budgets, first and last. 1 think it has been the experience of all of us that the Opposition's attitude is that even worthwhile social service payments that are desirable are never great enough and that if taxation is increased either it should not have been increased at all or it has been increased in the wrong way. I have seldom heard any different story from that. 
That is right. Only a few days ago I picked up a newspaper at home and saw that the writer of a letter was drawing attention to the fact that in the last 2 years of the Chifley regime, in spite of increasing^ costs - and they were increasing - pensions remained static; in 2 successive Budgets they were not increased. Some people might say that that was at the conclusion of the war and that people were able to find millions of dollars to spend on the war and the government might well have increased pensions. I do not go along with that. Of course people will find millions of dollars when the very existence of the country is at stake. But it is a fact that m the last 2 years of the Chiflley Government, in spite of increasing costs, pensions remained static. 
Let me say this in regard to social services: I go along entirely with what Professor Downing said. After dwelling at some length upon the half a million to one million poverty stricken people in the commu nity and the need, in his opinion, to increase age and other pensions, he said: 
We are not going to get any significant improvement in these areas by redistributing our present national income. We have some hope of improvement if we try to do it out of the additional wealth created by growth. 
Only in that way can we get down to the very basis from which all these things spring. I am one of those people who believe - I think everybody in this chamber goes along with this opinion - that this country should pay wages as great as it can possibly afford to pay. But I say that when those wages become fictitious, when all they represent is inflation and when they advance at a greater rate than production advances, then that does harm and damage to the whole of the community and the whole of the economy. Until we realise and understand, as Professor Downing has said, that from production and the development of latent resources by always increasing marketable production comes additional wealth, we will not break much ice towards further improvements in social services. 
I am not one of those who blame the wage earner for all the trouble and the continuous pressure on the  wages  system for more, more and ever more. I look askance at a company that can pay its shareholders a dividend of 17 per cent from forwarding freight from the island State of Tasmania to the mainland. I do not doubt for a moment that there are errors in management and that, in some cases at least, profits are excessive. Nevertheless, I go along with this statement in the Budget Speech: 
Even more than usually the Government has this year found it necessary to shape ils Budget to serve an overriding economic purpose. Australia is in the grip of inflationary pressures. The rate of increase in costs and prices is already fast and has tended to become faster. This is a serious condition. If allowed to develop unchecked it will cause increasing economic and social hardship to many people, add to the burdens of rural industries already depressed, disrupt developmental plans of great promise and undermine the rich possibilities of growth which our future unquestionably holds. 
Later in his Budget Speech the Treasurer said: 
In general, as we see the problem, there has been and still is a powerful upthrust of costs, stemming largely though not wholly from large wage claims relentlessly pursued. 
I come back to a case in my own locality. There is a pocket of unemployment on the north west coast of Tasmania. Probably there are others throughout the Commonwealth but there certainly is one on the north west coast of Tasmania. I feel that unless the present cost spiral is halted the situation will become worse, as it has done in Great Britain where in a 12 months period there was a 3 per cent increase in production and a 14 per cent increase in wages and salaries. One needs to be fearful that the position will so deteriorate that unemployment will be widespread throughout the Commonwealth. The General Superintendent of the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills complex at Burnie which is the largest employer of labour in the north west of Tasmania is reported as saying: 
Lack of regular shipping was a very real problem for the company's Tasmanian operations. The APPM was losing overseas sales . . . In the 5 weeks since the end of the stewards' strike 3,000 tons less than the output from the Burnie plant bad been shipped. 
Production was gradually piling up. I repeat what 1 said in this House a week or so ago: Because the Waterside Workers Federation in Melbourne did not like the South African rugby tour, it called a further week's strike and caused an additional pile up and loss of markets for the Burnie mill. A lot of men were put off because the mill had lost its overseas markets. 1 asked the manager a few days ago what had happened. He replied: 'Costs are escalating so much that we are costed out of our overseas markets'. He went on to say that the Australian buyer of paper did not mind paying a little extra for the product because it was locally manufactured but when the supply was intermittent and when, for a good part of the time, he was unable to secure supplies he then turned to the imported article. So the mill has lost a big slice of its Australian market as well. That is a sorry commentary on Australia when one thinks that the Japanese can purchase at least a good part of their requirement of raw material from other countries - some of it from Australia - take it to Japan, process it into paper, send it back to Australia and still undersell us on our own Australian market. 
The present situation is the result of the continuous escalation of costs which has gone on more or less all over Australia. What we need to be so afraid of is that unless it is halted we will be unable to cope with it. I turn to another aspect. Almost 300 timber workers in northern Tasmania could be out of a job by Friday week. The manager of the Burnie mill referred, in an interview, to intermittent shipping and hold ups in shipping which resulted in mainland buyers turning elsewhere. The manager of the Tasmanian Timber Association has said that purchasers in South Australia are now looking overseas for their supplies. What do we do about it? Do we adjust the situation by an increase in tariffs? Do we place a tariff on the article imported into Australia with a view to protecting the Australian manufacturer so that he can be reasonably certain of a big slice of his own local market? For how long do we go on chasing it? Must we not reach 'he position where, in the matter of trade, Australia will be divorced from the rest of the world? There can be no other conclusion if we go on far enough. 
I noted that when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission handed out the 6 per cent increase in wages and salaries last December, after devoting pages of its determination to a justification for the increase, it pleaded to unions to be moderate in their demands in future. The Commission was stating very clearly that in spite of the justification it had advanced for what it had done, it was very afraid of the situation which could develop, lt entertained the pious hope that further demands would be restrained. 
The position has become aggravated lately and will reach the stage where we will be unable to trade with the rest of the world if costs continue to escalate. When the workers were put off at the Burnie mill that I have mentioned the leaders of the union called a 24 hour strike in protest - an obviously futile action. What good could that do? To call a 24 hour strike is beyond the understanding of the average human being, ft is to the credit of the rank and file members of the union concerned that they themselves called a meeting and overruled the union leaders. They said: 'No, we will not go out for 24 hours. What good will it do?'. It is a mighty pity that the ordinary rank and file unionists, who in my humble opinion do not want the present incessant industrial unrest, do not do the same as the Burnie mill workers did and say: 'Enough of this. We will have no more of it'. I am afraid that the present practice could easily catch up with us. I believe it is unfortunate that the control of some unions is in the hands of people who have a vested interest in the breakdown of the Australian economy. I do not think there is any doubt about that. 
I was reading about the friction that has developed between the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union because of the embassies from Communist countries. Those countries use their embassies for industrial espionage. The writer of the article attributes a lot of the trouble on the Clydeside to agitation coming from embassies in the United Kingdom. I would not doubt it for a moment. But I go on from there and say, as I have said in this place before, that caught up in this position is the primary producer in this country. He is confronted with these ever spiralling costs. I do not believe it is the fault of the Government. I do not know what the Government could have done to halt inflation. If costs are continually increased through factors over which the Government has no control, surely we must get increased prices. I do not think the Government could have combated this inflation because there are so many matters that are outside its jurisdiction. 
It is all very fine to push up costs, to make unreasonable demands, to have payments made far beyond the measure of production in this country and in that way cause inflation, and then say 'Look, the Government is not doing anything about it; it is responsible'. I believe the value we get out of the pound is the value that the people as a whole put into it and 27 men who form the Government cannot by themselves and by their own efforts alone put value back into the pound. That is a job for the whole community. We have to get down to that basic fact and realise that we have to trade with the rest of the world on a basis that will enable us to compete well with our competitors. If costs keep on spiralling and if we are priced out of more and more markets, we will go the same way as the United Kingdom has gone because that is precisely what is wrong with the United Kingdom. It does not matter what ism one has: If Britain were a Communist country and if Australia were a Communist country both would still have to balance their overseas trading positions. This is a fact. 
No. It is a fact that the Soviet Union was compelled at one time to dispose of some of its art treasures to try to balance its overseas trading position. When one does the best one can one is not fattening the bloated capitalist. I saw a Communist on television in New Zealand and he was enunciating the theory that all we were doing was puffing up the profits of the capitalists and so on. T said to someone with me: "That is not right; in Australia I really believe we get more strikes, more hold-ups, more industrial unrest in State owned services and instrumentalities than anywhere else.' This Ls in electricity and particularly in transport to Tasmania. There is no capitalist that I know of who is involved in those services. The  President  of the Commonwealth Concilation and Arbitration Commission in its fourteenth annual report said: 
It has been often said and is often currently stated that if increases in salaries and wages are kept within increases in productivity the community in which this was done would have stable prices. 
I believe that he also said that our inflation was not as bad as inflation in some other countries. That reminded me of a man who was sick unto death. That man would not find very much comfort in being able to say: 'Well, I am not as sick as so and so.' The  President  continued: 
Therefore it is argued it should be obvious that the Commission should keep Australian salaries and wages within Australian productivity increases. This sounds a simple proposition but unfortunately (from the point of view of simplicity at any rate) no country with full employment or anything like full employment has yet managed to perform this feat in spite of valiant efforts to do so. 
 J am quoting the  President  of the Concilation and Arbitration Commission. 
 The latest report. The  President  continued: 
This has occurred irrespective ot whether the country concerned has an arbitration sysc.cn! or not. Even the United Slates with unemployment up over five and a half per cent of the work force is now finding the task beyond her. Productivity in various ways has been studied and argued  about  at Commission hearings (and before the old Court) for many years but examples of full employment countries keeping salary and wage increases inside productivity increases have yet to be produced. Those who directly or indirectly seek to advise the Commission to perform this feat should send someone along to a hearing to advise how it could be done. 
My only comment on that is that we did not need a formula to know that the 6 per cent increase last December would cause a terrific escalation in costs. The only other factor 1 want to speak about is the position of the primary producer. There has been an upsurge in primary production all over the world. Australia is threatened with Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. Many Ministers have gone to the United Kingdom in an attempt to ease the burden and to obtain some alleviation or some time for adjustment, but without success. I am one of those people who agree entirely with the statement of the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  that it would he a bad thing for the rest of the world, particularly the developing countries, if that bloc of countries in western Europe were to seek to make themselves as self sufficient as possible and to trade as little as possible with the rest of the world. 
I have had a lot to say in this chamber about the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. On a recent trip to New Zealand in a room full of people 1 said: The farmers are quiet. They are not growling as they usually do'. Somebody replied: 'They have not got very much to growl about'. I really believe the farmers in New Zealand are in a better position today than the farmers in this country. I made a comparison of the prices they received for their beef, sheep and butter. I could not help thinking that the farmers in New Zealand are not as badly off as, for example, the farmers in Tasmania. I made a comparison of the position in New Zealand and the position in Tasmania because I am so familiar with the position in Tasmania. Do not misunderstand me; I am overjoyed to think that the farmers in New Zealand have been so well treated. 
When  Mr Marshall  came home from his negotiations with the European Economic Community all the diplomats in New Zealand from the European Economic Community countries were in Wellington to meet him as well as several other Ministers. In relation to the agreement that New Zealand made with the 7 powers, as there are now, he said: 
This is a unique and unprecedented agreement. It is unique and unprecedented for any country to have a guaranteed market for a guaranteed quantity of goods to be sold at a guaranteed minimum price. 
The writer of the article from which I have quoted went on to say that 'unique" and 'unprecedented' were words  Mr Marshall  used over and over again. I am glad New Zealand was able to obtain such  conditions.  I have heard the claim made that this agreement will put New Zealand in a better position for the next 5 years than it has been in and that this advantage will then taper off. I cannot help hut think that the producers in this country - the sugar and fruit growers and perhaps others - who are in danger of losing their markets altogether should this thing eventuate are in a very much worse position than the New Zealand producers are in. I  do  nol think thai on? can wipe off this fa- t by saying that Australia has such large mineral resources that it can look after itself. I do feel that some consideration should have been given to having a period of adjustment for the producers  of  this country who will be so hard hit by the entry of Britain into the European bloc. That brings me  to  this statement: lt is a matter of extreme regret that the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement precludes the lamb producers in this country from ever getting a payable price for their product and 1 believe it precludes the pea and bean growers in this country from ever getting a good price for their product. It does seem to me that there is a need for some adjustment insofar as that agreement is concerned in relation to the position of our own producers. 
Let us examine the Figures in relation to trade between Australia and the United Kingdom. For many years we bought more goods from the United Kingdom than did any other country on earth. For several years past we have been running second. Our adverse balance of payments has been about 21 to I in the United Kingdom's favour. 
lt was about  2i  to I in the United Kingdom's favour. If the worse eventtuates - probably it will not - and Australian exports to the United Kingdom are cut off or drastically reduced we should seek our requirements somewhere else. We should luke our orders to countries that will trade with us on a reciprocal basis. The first thing that I would clamp down on is the importation of rubbishy British films. I would tender some encouragement to our own film industry to produce good Australian films for the people of this country to look at. 
Some of the British films that I have seen were so silly that I felt ashamed of myself for sitting up and looking at them. On many occasions I have said to people in my house that it is time the Government took action and did something to encourage the Australian film industry, if for no other reason than that it would save us from having to sit up and look at such rubbish as is to be seen in British films. 
I have taken note of the fact that 2 prominent men - one was a man who last stood for the presidency of the United States and was defeated - have complained about the havoc that the EEC is playing in the agricultural markets of the world. We know that by very heavy subsidisation the EEC has increased production, but that did not seem to bring contentment to the farmers. The EEC dumped a lot of its increased production on the world market at half the normal price or at a very reduced price, which caused a lot of dislocation, lt is to be hoped that if the United Kingdom enters that federation some idea will be forthcoming which will prevent its entry from being a threat to the countries which most depend on trade for their survival. 
Contrary to other budgets 1 have seen come and go I have the very distinct impression, although I may be quite wrong, that this Budget has caused much less upset and has been better received than any other budget for many years past. I believe that is a fair statement and I support the Budget. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is he aware that unemployment in Tasmania has increased rapidly over the past week or two and that part of it stems from the dismissal of workers by Associated Pulp and Paper Manufacturers due to the fact that this company has been partly priced out of both its overseas and Australian markets, and that this has happened not as a result of action by either State or Commonwealth governments? I ask the Minister: In these circumstances will the Government have a look at this position with a view to taking remedial action? 
As I interpret the honourable senator's question, he is suggesting that APPM is being priced out of the market, presumably because of lack of tariff protection or because overseas competitors can bring commodities into Australia and adversely compete against it. Is that the implication of the question? 
And because of increased costs. 
Now  Senator Webster  is helping with the question. Has any other honourable senator a contribution to make before I answer? 
I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation a- question concerning the State-Commonwealth commitee set up to make various  assesments  about the aerodromes, at Hobart, Launceston, Devonport and Wynyard. Is he able to define further the functions of this committee and indicate what influence it will have on the upgrading to jet standard of at least one of the 2 aerodromes in need of it? Will it have any bearing at all on such a proposition? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Can the Minister say on what grounds the feasibility study of the tug-barge service planned to serve Tasmania has been rejected by the Commonwealth authorities, as has been reported? Is the Minister aware that the Sydney firm of Marecon Pty Ltd has claimed that the proposition was entirely practicable and that if operated in cooperation with existing freight services it would substantially reduce costs, even to the extent, it is claimed, of halving existing freight costs? Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Chief Secretary has said that one of the greatest obstacles to the operation of this system is Commonwealth authority to proceed? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware that a strike by 3 men who are in key positions in a factory at Devonport and who apparently are the only members of a certain union employed there has caused that factory to cease production, incurring the resentment of at least some of the other employees who  have been thrown out of work? ls there any means by which such imbecility can be brought to an end? 
1 ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Does he know whether the Minister for Shipping and Transport has taken cognisance of and is in a position to comment on the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade on Tasmanian shipping services? 
J ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: Has he noted that throughout the report recently issued by the Australia to Europe shipping conference strong reference is made to what is described as the most telling factor in the increase in operating costs, and one of the reasons why freights should go up, namely the cost of marine fuel oil which it is claimed has increased in price at the rate of 100 per cent in one year? Because the Australian National Line's bunkering costs as indicated in its last 2 annual reports do not show a similar steep increase or anything like it will the Minister seek an explanation of this disparity? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it correct that, as one correspondent states, the United Nations is carried on in the main by the United States of America's largesse, that many other members, particularly the Soviet Union, have failed to meet their financial obligations to the organisation and that the United Nations is hence drifting info a state of bankruptcy? What is the constitutional position regarding votes taken in that body of countries failing to meet their membership obligations? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry any information regarding imports of paper into Australia which are reported to have considerably increased in the past several months? Has the Australian industry applied for increased tariff protection? Has it been contemplated that such protection should be given under the emergency legislation designed to meet a sudden influx of imports? 
In the absence of the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is correct as reported in one newspaper that the Ukraine and one other State of the Soviet Union - I forget which but there are 2 of them - are both fully fledged members of the United Nations? If so, would it not be justice to apply this principle to the membership of Taiwan and Red China instead of the unworthy, despicable decision to expel a country which has done nothing to deserve such a fate? 
I am sure wc all appreciate that the decisions were taken at the United Nations as the result of a vote on a series of resolutions which were passed. Having said that, I confine myself to saying that I shall refer the honourable senator's question to the Minister for External Affairs. In any event, I shall have a list of all the constituent members of the United Nations sent to the honourable senator. When I do that I am sure he will agree that unless one carried out some research a lot of nations would be difficult to locate in the light of the geography learned by the honourable senator and myself. 
I would like to say at the outset that I do not believe for one moment that there was any ulterior motive attached to the bringing forward of this subject for discussion as a matter of urgency. I do not believe that there was any desire to uncover a conspiracy, as was suggested by  Senator Wheeldon;  I believe there was just a genuine desire to have discussed the implications for the defence and security of this country of the impact of 2 very, very important events so far as the whole world is concerned. I agree with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  that the undertakings entered into by the United Kingdom in this part of the world were given with the very best intentions. T do not doubt for a moment that the will would be there to honour those intentions and for Britain to do what it may to safeguard the interests of all of us in this part of the world. But I cannot escape the feeling that the dwindling strength of that same United Kingdom makes it arguable whether that could be accomplished. 

 Senator Sim dealt with the political aspect of Britain's entry into the European Economic Community. There is another factor - 'the economic aspect. I cannot escape the feeling that has been expressed by economists in the United Kingdom and by some members of the Labor Party in that country that because the centralising power in a federation or a confederation of nations, whatever one may call it, is overwhelming, there is the desire and the force to concentrate industries in the nations in the centre. Because Britain is on the periphery of the circle, they claim that the trend will be to centralise in the middle of the Community, probably in the Ruhr or somewhere else. In fact, this has been going on already. Sooner than locate its industries on the outside of the circle, the EEC, it is suggested, will have them in the centre, and so have them in places where less industrial unrest occurs than arises in Britain. Industrial unrest in Britain has been largely responsible for bringing the United Kingdom to the pass in which it finds itself today. 
 1 am told that that is rubbish. 
 I noticed a report the other day which indicated that whereas the time lost through strikes in Australia last year increased by IS per cent the figure in the United Kingdom in this respect increased by 60 per cent. While entry into the EEC may not be a good thing for the United Kingdom economically and while it may be true, as  Mr Wilson  says, that the struggle is only just beginning, nevertheless if the guidance is forthcoming politically for the United Kingdom this could have long range effects upon the defence of this country and upon the peace of the world. 

 Senator Little spoke about isolationism in the United States of America. Only a few days ago I read an article describing a mounting campaign in the United States to withdraw or at at '.east to reduce drastically the United States forces that are stationed in Europe. The writer of this article termed it the withdrawal from Western Europe of the nuclear umbrella on which that part of the world has depended so much as a protection against the Soviet influence further east. As  Senator Little  pointed out, there are people in this Senate who cry aloud about the peaceful intentions of the Soviet Union and Red China. I believe that, with respect to the Soviet Union, the Hungarians, the Czechoslovaks and the Poles, on the one hand, would not believe them. On the other hand, with regard to Red China, the Tibetans, the Indians and some others also would not believe them. Without any doubt whatever the intentions of these two peoples are aggressive. 
If the United States sinks more and more into isolationism and withdraws its forces or part of them from or substantially reduces them in Europe, it does seem reasonable to think that this action might speed up the further federation of the countries that comprise the European Economic Community into a real, virile defence unit as a counterpoise to the influence further east of the Soviet Union. If such action does not have this result, that part of the world could well be in a position of great jeopardy indeed. It is to be hoped that the political influence of the United Kingdom amongst the members of the European Economic Community will be such that the EEC can be built into a force in the world that will be a counterpoise to the forces of the two great communist blocs which I and a good many others believe threaten the security of the world. 
Australia for a long time past has had a most adverse trading balance with the United Kingdom. It is true that, when Britain enters the EEC we will lose some markets - in all probability, for primary products. But the trading balance between Australia and the United Kingdom is adverse to this country at the ratio of 2:1 or 2i:l. If that lost trade can be replaced and if trade can be encouraged with countries which will trade on a reciprocal basis, the trading relations of our country could gain. The United States and the United Kingdom are 2 countries with which Australia has had most adverse trading balances. If one of those countries - that is. the United Kingdom - readjusted its trade with Australia, in the Iona term Australia could profit bv the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. 
The other factor in the discussion in this matter of public importance is the seating of Red China in the United Nations. I took note that  Senator Wheeldon  said that the choice was simply as to which Chinese government - the Red Chinese Government on the mainland or the Republic of China Government on Formosa - would be preferred. But the decision was not as simple as all that. In fact, whether Taiwan should be given a new seat or continue to hold its former seat in the United Nations following the seating of the Red Chinese was voted upon. In my view it is a matter for the greatest regret that the action that was taken in the United Nations precluded the Taiwanese from membership of the United Nations. 1 wish to quote from a leading article which appeared in the Launceston Examiner'- 
No. It is not a left wing paper. It is a paper that many times talks a lot of commonsense. This leading article is headed: 'Taiwan Infamy'. It states: 
The expulsion of Taiwan from the United Nations was a cruel and cynical decision-  1 think it was; I agree with that statement:   . . which throws  a  dark shadow over the general pleasure that has been aroused by China's taking its rightful place in the world. Smaller nations like Australia should take warning: They, too,  are  clearly expendable on the altars of bigpower convenience and of African and Asian racial hatreds. 
The Taiwanese invited trouble in the UN by insisting that they were the only true and lawful representatives of China. This made it difficult to seat two Chinas in the Assembly. But a compromise was not impossible. Precedents exist. For example, the Byelorussian and Ukrainian republics of the Soviet Union are members of the UN. Taiwan is a separate state which has been a loyal and  generous  member of the UN since the inception of the world body. Its expulsion as though it had failed in its observance of duties and responsibilities was callous. 
The article continues: 
Worse was the dancing and cheering of delegates as Taiwan's expulsion was announced - a moment of infamy indeed, as the US Ambassador to the UN  (Mr George Bush)  commented with justifiable bitterness. Said  Mr Bush:  'Anybody with a heartbeat in his chest who saw those decent people thrown out of the UN couldn't help being affected, lt was a terribly moving and disappointing thing'. 
I hope Taiwan does apply and that it is accepted. I concede that the United Nations has failed miserably in achieving the ultimate aim envisaged at its inception. I say that because apparently there has been no genuine desire on the part of most of its members to avoid war, to police the world as they thought it should be policed and to bring about a state of peace in the world. In fact, in the circumstances that exist, the United Nations could degenerate into a Communist sounding board. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport aware that the 3 per cent surcharge on freight imposed by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd on non-capital ports discriminates unfairly against some areas of the Commonwealth, for example in Tasmania where the capital port of Hobart is an appreciably longer distance from the original point of transport than are Tasmania's northern ports? 
Will the Minister take this matter up with the shipping companies, and especially their contention that it is cheaper to land steel in Hobart than in the northern ports of Tasmania, which is roundly contradicted by one leading port authority in Tasmania? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that very large quantities of grass seeds are being imported which will almost bring about, it is claimed, the extinction of the Australian grass seed production industry? Will the Minister examine schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement which seems to provide that seeds must not be imported in retail packs under this Agreement, with a view to ascertaining whether there is any abrogation of this provision in relation to the imports? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. .The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully sheweth: 
Parents have the right to choose their children's education and as taxpayers they are entitled to ask that public funds to which their taxes have contributed should be shared justly and equitably for the education of all children. 
The Commonwealth Parliament has accepted the principle of an independent school system in Australia and has also accepted the principle that those schools should be assisted from public funds. 
The very existence of a large number of independent schools is now threatened due to the changes in economic circumstances and due to the increased demands on the resources of these schools. 
The reduction of the number of independent schools in Australia will effectively deprive many taxpaying parents of their rights to choose an alternative type of education tor their children. 
The closure of a number of independent schools will result in serious overcrowding in and further deterioration in the standard of government schools. 
lt is in the interests of all school pupils whether in government or independent schools that the independent school system should survive and function efficiently and effectively. 
The absence of any increase in capitation grants by (he Commonwealth since 1969. notwithstanding the great increase in costs since then, has created serious problems for independent schools. 
Your petitioners request that your honourable House make legal provision for - 
An emergency increase in capitation giants for independent schools to enable them to survive without increasing fees beyond the capacity of parents to pay. 
A just and equitable means of increased support for all schools both Government and independent to the intent that such support should be integrated into the economic and financial planning of Australia and thai the question of proper support of both independent and government schools should cease to be a matter of political debate and expediency. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry whether, because importations of grass seed amounting to a claimed S200m a year could play havoc with the Australian industry, the Government will take action to see that the existing tariff protection is enforced. If it is not being enforced now. and because the time of the year when Australian importers order quantities of grass seed from overseas is approaching, will the Government treat this matter as urgent? Will the Government investigate the effect of imports from New Zealand on the Australian industry with a view to taking the action provided under article 10? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry.  Mr Geoffrey  Rippon, the United Kingdom Common Market negotiator, in a recent speech spoke of the traditional period required by Australian exporters to the United Kingdom. Has any definite undertaking ever been given as to the actual application of this transitional period in terms of time or injury to Australian exporters, particularly primary producers, in the way that New Zealand exporters to the United Kingdom for instance have been given 5 years initially, with a gradual tapering off thereafter? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools to the government school system for which the Government is truly responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Following on the previous question about oil spillage I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Is it correct, as reported, that the Commonwealth Minister for Shipping and Transport has promised to make available $lm to the State authorities charged with the care of the seas adjoining their States to be spent on stocks of oil dispersants which are to be located at 8 strategic points around the coast of the Commonwealth? That report has been made. If it is correct, can the Minister say when the dispersant, which is claimed to have been promised by the Commonwealth, will be made available at the strategic points I have mentioned. 
Most of the discussion tonight has centred on inflation. Nearly every  speaker  has referred to it, and rightly so. I took note of the fact that  Senator Murphy  had the idea that, because other countries have the disease, as a number of them have, therefore it is a good thing for us to have a modicum of it too. I say without any hesitation that, for my part, I would sooner this country did not have it at all. Inflation is as old as civilisation. The old Roman Empire was troubled with it. To try to combat it, a system of fixation of prices was institutes at that time. I call to mind reading some of the edicts of Diocletian. 
Yes, there were some salutary penalties for non-observance of the edicts brought forth about the price of this, that and the other. But it failed. In point of fact, it did not impede in any way the progress of economic collapse that took place not very long afterwards. 
I think that that has been the story through history. Price control, as we knew it during the war years, when an attempt was made to control nearly every ambit of human endeavour, mostly succeeded in aggravating the very ills that it set out to cure. 
I find great difficulty in dealing with this motion.  Senator Carrick,  too, was in trouble regarding its wording. The second paragraph of the motion states: 
The determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy . . . 
That is the crux of the motion, surely. From there, the wording emphasises some aspects of the matter but the crux of the motion is that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee for inquiry and report: 
The determination of prices which affect the structure of costs and prices in the Australian economy . . . 
I, for one, cannot see much that lies outside it. I would say that that wording includes all prices that are paid for anything. All prices would come within the ambit of that wording. In truth, it goes on 10 particularise by stating:   . . of  prices which are determined by foreign corporations or trade  or  financial corporations formed within the limits of the Commonwealth,  or  by corporations which enjoy advantages under Commonwealth tariff, revenue, subsidy  or  other laws,  or  by corporations which have contracts wilh the Commonwealth. 
In my view, that is a mighty reference. I do not know how a committee would set to work to investigate it. I say further that it is a mighty reference to direct to a standing commitee which in my view and in the general consensus is a commitee which has been set up to investigate clearcut matters which are capable of fairly quick decision and report. However, to put a reference so tremendous as this to a standing committee of the Senate is in my view completely and absolutely absurd. The Committee is supposed then to go on to recommend what legislative action is necessary to give effect to such recommendations as are made. It has been rightly pointed out in this chamber during the currency of this debate thai no-one knows whether the Commonwealth has the power to legislate in respect of price control. It has been deduced because of a certain High Court decision regarding concrete pipes that it may well be that the Commonwealth would have some power in regard to price control. Nevertheless, noone knows positively and any recommendations from the commi'tee as to legislation to give effect to the report of the committee would, if it went along certain lines, be no more than fumbling in the dark. 1 repeat, because I cannot emphasise this too much,, that in my opinion the proposition contained in the motion is not a matter that should be referred to a standing committee of the Senate. In my view it is a matter for reference to a committee of experts. In no circumstances should such a reference have any overtones of politics. I noted that what, more than anything else, triggered off this motion was the rise in the price of Broken Hill P y Co. Ltd steel.  Senator Carrick  quoted from a report of the Tariff Board. He could have gone back also to a Tariff Board report a year earlier as both reports bear a resemblance and indicated just how fractional the rises in the price of s eel in Australia have been compared with rises in this product in other countries. The report to which I refer states: 
The rises in Australian iron and steel prices in t969-70 were, in most cases, substantially, lower than those overseas. Prices of structural steel, for example, rose by 4 per cent in Australia compared with increases of 11 per cent in the United States, 14 per cent in Britain, 18 per cent in Germany and 37 per cent in Japan. 
That pattern was carried on in' 0 Ihe next year. It has been said - 1 do not doubt for a moment that it is correct - that we have the second lowest priced steel in the world. I am not saying  for  a moment that the recent increases brought: about by BHP in the price of steel were justified. No-one knows. In all probability the rises were jus ified. However, when we come to a comparison with al) other highly industrialised countries, we cannot do other than come to the conclusion that we come out of the comparison very favourably so far as the price of structural steel is concerned. We could go further in our reference to this Tariff Board report. I remind honourable senators that the Tariff Board is composed of men with no political axe to grind, that it is a body of men who surely would be impartial in these matters. In relation to the price of fuel oil the Board slated: 
World prices for fuel oil increased sharply for the second year in succession. In 1970-71, the Australian price rose by 19 per cent compared with increase? in Britain of J5 per cent and in the United States and western Europe of approximately 50 per cent. 
So we come out of that comparison also fairly favourably. 1 have said that in my view nothing lies outside the question of prices. I have taken note of some remarks made by  Mr Whitlam  during his visit to Tasmania. 
No.  Mr Whitlam  went across  to  Tasmania and spoke on a subject about which  I  am pretty touchy. I refer to Tasmanian shipping rates.  Mr Whitlam  said that Tasmanian shipping freight rates had been increased to bear the losses that the Australian National 
Line had inclined by its ill-considered proposals. Apparently  Mr Whitlam  did not read the report of the Standing Committee to which this reference is proposed, which investigated Tasmanian shipping freights. That report was arrived at after a most exhaustive inquiry spread over many months and it contradicts completely the statement made in Tasmania by  Mr Whitlam  only last month. Remarks of that kind merely serve to impede the progress of Tasmania, lt was found by the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade that Tasmanian shipping freights were not paying for losses incurred elsewhere as  Mr Whitlam  has suggested. 
I remind honourable senators that we cannot have cheap shipping freights when we have approximately 14- delayed or cancelled sailings per week - that is an official figure - caused by industrial strikes; when we have a stewards' strike which increases ANL's losses from $600,000 to $1,200,000 for the 12 months through one strike alone. We cannot have these things and still have cheap shipping freights. That much is certain. On the question of shipping freights to Tasmania I say without hesitation that if all those who are engaged in the industry entered it with a spirit of co-operation and with a real sense of duty to the public, freights would be at a reasonable level. That is the crux of the position. But  Mr Whitlam  went across to Tasmania and said more than that. He spoke about the shorter working week and opportunities for earlier retirement. It must be borne in mind that be was saying these things at a time when, according to  Senator Murphy,  the rate of inflation was excessive.  Mr Whitlam  went on to say also that wages were rising more slowly than prices and. because of this, consumer demand would decline. It is a fact that in 1968 the average wage rose by 6.8 per cent compared with the level in the previous year. In 1971 the rise was 12.7 per cent. 
Except in this place, I agree. 
That may be. But how wide of the mark was  Mr Whitlam's  statement that prices were rising more quickly than wages because in 1968 prices rose by 2.4 per cent and the average wage rose by 6.8 per cent. In 1971 prices rose by 6.7 per cent but wages rose 12.7 per cent. The crux of the matter is this: In 1968 non-farm production rose by 3.5 per cent. Last year this was down to 1.7 per cent. Anyone who says that this is not a contributing factor to inflation just does not understand simple arithmetic. 
No, 1 am not. 1 think that inflation is so excessive that if something is not done to halt it- 
1 believe that we are the victims to a large extent of wage-push inflation. 1 think that is wrong. Wages have risen at a faster rate than  productionUnless  production increases at a rate commensurate with the increase in wages then all those increases in wages above the amount by which production increase  'ire  purely ficticious and are in fact inflation. Britain has found this to be true. Britain was in a position where wages rose by 14 per cent and production rose by 3 per cent. 
I am referring to gross national production. 
You can make a speech when I have finished. I am saying thai if that condition is not inflation I do not know how one would describe inflationary conditions or how conditions would be activated that would bring about inflation. In other words, the British were paying themselves more than they were earning. 
Tasmania is a small place. I know of a sawmill in that State that used to employ 200 men. This mill was converted to a stage which was as fully automated as a sawmill can be. lt is doing the same amount of work now with 8 men. The manager said to me that it was a case of doing that or going out of business. He  said: 'We just  could  not carry on under the previous conditions'. I went further up the road and talked to a man who ran a very small business. He used to employ 7 men. However, he put in a machine that cost several thousand dollars and he now does the work with 3 men. He said that he had a choice of doing that or going out of business. I believe that this sort of reorganisation will go on all over Australia,  lt  went on all over Britain. 
Not long ago 1 read a report detailing the redundancy in British industry. The report said that because of excessive wage increases in various industries the employers were compelled to put in up to date machinery in order to cut down expenses. As a result of wage increases, many industries went broke. Those that did not were compelled to use as much automation as possible to try to counteract the same wage-push inflation from which no benefit accrues to anyone. It is like a little boy getting a lot of pennies - there is no value in the collection. The article went on to say that redundant people were in a position where, unless fresh industries were started - and it is difficult to see how they could be in an old industrialised country like the United Kingdom - it was not known how they would ever be put in employment again. The same thing is happening in this country. 
 The farmer has produced more per man for less return than any other section of the community. If the farmer adopted the same policy, outlook or attitude towards his work as do the great majority of other people in the community, most of them would have been Walking down the road long ago. The way in which the farmer has carried on under the conditions, received less and less and paying more and more in costs, and the fact that so many of them have been able to survive at all are tributes to their tenacity in sticking to their jobs. 
I say again that I do not believe that this is a subject that should be referred to a standing committee. I am a member of the Standing Committee to which the 
Opposition wishes to refer this subject. The Committee has commenced an investigation that will take a very long time to complete. I would say - and I am only guessing - that if the Committee did proceed with this subject it would be well into next year, and probably towards the end of the year, before a report could be completed. I believe that this is one of the most futile propositions to be put forward since the committee system was introduced. For the reasons I have stated - and I believe they are as wide as the world - I do not believe that this matter should be referred to a standing committee which, I consider, was not set up for that purpose. Therefore, I believe that the motion should be rejected. 
Can the Minister for Health say whether it is correct, as stated by a correspondent named lillian Skinner, that 3 million people in Australia are without health insurance? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister noted the proposed merger so far as vegetable processing is concerned in Australia of British Tobacco Co. (Australia) Ltd and  Watters  Industries Ltd of New Zealand? Has there been an assessment of the significance of this move to Australian producers, some of whom are already producing at little more than the cost of production? Can the Minister indicate whether this move is likely to result in an increase of imports of frozen vegetables on to an already glutted Australian market? 
1 do not know why some honourable senators should be so certain that I was acting under the auspices of someone else when I asked that the document quoted from by  Senator Brown  be incorporated. But be that as it may, I propose to say a few words about the Public Service Arbitration Bill which is presently before us. 1 was interested in the introductory remarks of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  when he said: 
The processes of the Act have remained virtually unchanged since the first Public Service Arbitration Act was enacted in 1920. 
I think that somewhere else he went on to say that this Bill merely brings the public service into line with the rest of the workers who are not engaged in the Public Service. 
I know that the Australian Clerical Officers Association say that it is not true. But that is a matter of opinion. The year 1920 was only 20 years after Federation and more than 50 years ago. In his speech the Minister said that since then the Public Service has enlarged until a quarter of a million people are employed and that it has extended into fresh avenues and ambits of activity. Of course after that long period it has been decided that some amendments to the Act are necessary. I think it was  Senator Little  who pointed to the fact that these amendments have been triggered off because of the postal disputes which have so inconvenienced and penalised the general public over a fairly long period. I listened to  Senator Bishop  and  Senator Brown.  They spoke with a lot of authority about the trade union movement, arbitration and the upsets and frustrations which beset trade unions in their struggle to obtain better terms and conditions for employees. 
As I listened, I wondered whether any organisations on earth tread the primrose path without anything to disturb the even tenor of their ways. I thought of the poor old primary producers. If ever there was in this country a body of men who have reason to cry aloud about their grievances, it is the primary producers. If honourable senators are to except one body of men, it could be the Qantas airline pilots. I am inclined to go along with  Senator Little,  who said that if strikes are accepted as a legitimate industrial weapon he could not understand  Senator Murphy  condemning, as he did, the very high salaries that are paid to the Qantas airline pilots. If strikes are a legitimate industrial weapon, the only basis on which one can criticise them, I would say, is that they have been too successful. 
When because of inequalities, which there always will be, frustrations and things that they are induced to believe are not conducive to their advancement or betterment, people are impatient with industrial actions, or the actions of persons whose role is to act as umpire in regard to these matters, and when as a result they propose to sabotage an essential service in this country - the mail service - by proposing to cut one of the economic arteries of the country because they are not satisfied with the conditions imposed by the persons whose function is to arbitrate in these matters, is it not reasonable to expect that the powers that be at long last must be forced to take some concrete action? I ask honourable senators to listen to this report: 
The general secretary of the Union of Postal Clerks and Telegraphists,  Mr J.  S. Baker, said last night bis union's work-to-regulation campaign would continue until its claim for a 9 per cent salary increase was granted. 
I believe  Mr Slater  said that his organisation would take action that would shake Australia. The report continues: 

 Mr Baker said the campaign would affect telegraph and telephone services, the money order system, internal PMG finances, and coin . collections. 
It would be directly linked to that of about 20,000 PMG linesmen, members of the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union, who were claiming a flow-on from the metal trades award. 
A  national ban by the APWU on the installa tion and repair of business telephones has been in force for  6  weeks in support of the flow-on. 
In addition, the APWU has placed a ban on the handling of all telephone accounts, which bring a daily revenue of $1.25ra to the department. 
There is the situation in which these men are refusing to collect the very wherewithal that is used to pay their wages. Could honourable senators contemplate anything more asinine or destructive, or anything more calculated to compel a government which accepts its responsibilities as it should to do something? Surely as reasonable human beings we must expect that. So it is that the Government has brought down this legislation which contains penal clauses. I know that many people, especially members of the Opposition, do not like penal clauses. It is only about 3 years ago that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act was amended by the present Government, in my opinion weakly and supinely. In my view the Government showed deplorable weakness in making that amendment. No sooner were these socalled objectionable penal clauses withdrawn than the secretary of the Builders Labourers Union,  Mr Mundey,  said: 
The general idea among officials was to try to win, strikes quickly and, failing that, to beat a retreat and make the best of it. 
With the removal of some of the teeth from the penal powers in May,  1969,  longer strikes including general strikes are likely to become the order of the day. 
In my view that statement of his showed up the weakness of the Government in contemplating the withdrawal of these penal clauses. The Public Service union publication, receipt of which I think most honourable senators appreciate, has this to say about this amendment: 
The scope of the Bill is such that innocent victims of industrial action generated from within or outside of Commonwealth employment may bc penalised. 
That is regrettable; but it is also regrettable that in all strikes throughout the Commonwealth it is the innocent people, those who have nothing whatever to do with the dispute, who very often are penalised. We read not long ago about the power strike in Victoria. I think I am correct in saying that thousands of people were thrown out of work in New South Wales. 1 believe that in the motor industry, in particular, people who were not even remotely connected with the dispute were thrown out of work. I say that, except in very exceptional circumstances, a strike merely to better terms and conditions of employment is morally unjustifiable in any way, shape or form, if for no other reason than it inflicts hardship and penalties not upon the powers that be but, in the main, upon people who have nothing at all to do with the dispute. I cannot help thinking of the change that has come over the Federal representatives of the Australian Labor Party. I found an article among some old papers only a few days ago. lt was so good that I cut it out. 
I am going back just a few years to indicate the terrific change that has taken place in the attitude of the ALP. The article reads: 
When last  I  talked with you about the dispute in the coal industry  I  said that the strike by members of the Miners Federation was completely unjustifiable. 
I  told rank and file miners that both the  NSW 
Premier  (Mr McGirr)  and  I- 
This was  Mr Chifley  speaking - would be unmoved by threats and that the only way to settle the matter was to return to the proper arbitral tribunal. 
That cannot be laughed off by honourable senators opposite. The article continues: 
I  also said that it was hard to believe that a section of men would be so callous as to inflict on their fellow citizens the hardships caused. 
The strike leaders have been committed to prison . . . 
That was during the Chifley regime. Surely that was a pretty drastic penal provision. The article continues: 
The strike leaders have been committed to prison because they are flagrantly and systematically disobeying the Arbitration Court's order to pay money into the Court. 
I suppose that means that they failed to pay their fines. The Government would do well to take a leaf out of  Mr Chifley's  book in that regard. The article continues: 
I  now say to the rank and file of miners: The policy of the Commonwealth and NSW governments is known to you. 
Either you can forsake the law of the jungle which is the communist creed . . . 
1 know that opposition senators do not like this kind of stuff. The article continues:   . . which is the communist creed and return to proper and lawful arbitration authority or you ally yourselves with the world wide movement that seeks to wreck the democratic way of life.' 
That was what  Mr Chifley  said in 1949. 
The article continues: 
The system of determination of industrial  diputes  by  aurbitration  has the support of the very great majority of the Australian public, the support of the Commonwealth Parliament, and certainly the complete support of the Labor governments which have made settlement of disputes in this manner a fundamental principle of their platform.' 
He went on to indicate how the Labor Party had fallen and how the Corns had got hold of it and how its members followed that Com line. The present leaders have gone back on the attitude and policies of all their great leaders. 
That is right. I agree with that. We have had debates on this subject previously. Speaking from memory, if  Mr Chifley  did not insert the penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act he certainly increased the penalties until they were very severe. The paragraph in the article, dealing with  Mr Chifley,  which interested me was this: 
How docs his courage to sneak and act regardless of threats compare wilh the fear and inaction of the leaders of both sides in our Parliament today? 
The article, speaking about employers, continues:   . . who will give way to every extremist demand to save their own pockets while they further increase costs to the public. 
If a Labor man today were to speak out as  Mr Chifley  spoke out in 1949 he would be relegated to the limbo of forgotten men. He would be consigned to the nether regions from which there would be no resurrection. While the majority of Labor men opposite do not believe in industrial chaos, strikes and all the rest of it, not one will speak out in condemnation of those things. 1 believe that the present Government would ensure its position on the Treasury benches if it were to take up the cudgels on behalf of the ordinary rank and file trade unionists. I meet many of them. So docs every senator on this side of the chamber. They want none of this industrial chaos and they repeatedly ask: 
When does the Government intend to do. something about this industrial chaos that besets us?' But honourable senators opposite are prone to follow, in all their actions, the extreme courses advocated and set by the leaders of the militant trade unions. 
I support the Bill. I can understand fully" the reason for its introduction. I do not think the Commonwealth Government had any other course. Like most things that come from the human mind, I suppose it has imperfections. I think we would have to wait a long time before we got something that was completely and absolutely fair in its application. I appreciate full well the entire necessity for introducing something which, while it may not succeed, is an attempt to end theintolerable situation that arises when a body of men can tie up or attempt to tieup one of the Commonwealth's essential services and so penalise the whole of the Australian economic system because they are not satisfied with the conditions that are meted out to them. 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia)' (8.49)  -  I oppose the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I have listened to most of the speeches on the Bill. The previous,  speaker, Senator Lillico,  quoted the second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  which told us that the purpose of the Bill was to take section 28 of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and apply it to public servants, and that this had become necessary as the wave of industrial unrest has spread throughout the Public Service in recent years. There would seem to be some justification for the legislation if one were to confine oneself to condemning strike, action. Those who support the measure have been content to condemn strikes about which they knew nothing but which in their minds should never have happened. They see the Bill as justification for the attitude that they are taking today. 
If we study the Bill - I think that even some of those honourable senators who have spoken will realise this if they are honest - we find that what the Minister is attempting to do is apply special treatment to a special section of workers and to subject them to the most tyrannical, oppressive and unjust legislation to which any section of workers in the world has ever been subjected. This reeks of facism. lt is something that could never be accepted in what we term as the free world. No legislation is being introduced in what we term the free world that is as vicious as this legislation. To try to understand what this legislation means we must look at industrial legislation generally in Australia. What everyone seems to forget today is that the essentia! legislation - the law dealing with employment - is the law of contract. An employee - one person - contracts to do a quantum of work or number of hours of work in return for the other party to the contract, paying so much a week or an hour for the number of hours worked. That is still the law in relation to employment. If there is a breach of contract the other contracting party has the right to sue for breach of contract. If someone suffers an injury as the result of the wrong doing of the other party to the contract, the law of tort applies whereby he can go to a court of competent jurisdiction and seek compensation for the injury he has suffered. 
To operate a law of contract properly the parties to the contract must be equally free to enter into or refrain from entering into the contract. In the early days of Australia's development the law of contract failed inasmuch as the parties were not equal. The employer could stipulate the hours of employment or the quantum of work. The wages were paid and the other party to the contract - the employee - never had the right to accept or reject the contract by virtue of the fact that it meant starvation if he rejected it. lt was in order to give some equality to the parties to the contract that the big shearers strike occurred in the 1890s. It went on for several months. There was also the maritime workers strike which again continued for several months, lt involved the right to form trade unions to put the trade unionists in the stevedoring industry or maritime industry in a better position to contract their labour with the other contracting parties. 
As a result of the shearers strike, in which force was used - men were shot and the military was used to break it up - the New South Wales Government established an inquiry into the strikes that were hap pening to see that there would be no recurrence of what happened throughout northern New South Wales and Queensland in that strike. History tells us that in the inquiry a South Australian Cabinet Minister at that time, Charles Cameron Kingston, who played his part during the early stages of federation, put up a proposal to the inquiry that there should be an authority to try to bring the employees and employers in disputation together in conciliation to see whether their differences could be settled. He put forward the view that if conciliation did not succeed, and only if it did not succeed, there should be a third party to decide the issue and his decision should be binding. That was the beginning of arbitration in Australia. 
Following upon that, in 1896 the Victorian Wages Board was established. An Act of the Commonwealth Parliament was passed in 1 904. Queensland and South Australia introduced Acts in 1912. I have not the dales on which legislation was introduced in other States. But of all the States only New South Wales and South Australia introduced penal provisions in their arbitration laws. All the other States and the Commonwealth operated without penal provisions in their Acts. In 1956 the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act was amended te include penal provisions. With the introduction of penal provisions, the strikes started thick and strong. I think that there was some respite for the period that they were not enforced, but during the 1960s when they were enforced the more they were enforced the more strikes have occurred in the Australian work force. 
A mistaken belief is that arbitration supersedes the law of contract or the law of tort, lt does nothing of a sort. All it does is modify the common law of contract or the law of tort. I would still say that the law of contract applies in arbitration in every State but Queensland. That State has made provision under which arbitration is supreme and under which there is no other redress. To show that other actions apply, recently an action was heard in the South Australian Supreme Court against the secretary of the South Australian Branch of the Transport Workers Union for compensation for loss incurred by omnibus proprietors because of a strike by the Transport Workers Union in South Australia. The action was withdrawn after settlement was reached. At the present time in Adelaide action is pending against  Mr Domford,  the secretary of the Australian Workers Union in South Australia and the Trades and Labour Council Disputes Committee which placed a ban upon sheep skins being shipped from Kangaroo Island. The ban was placed because the farmer used non-union labour. He is making a claim for compensation in the South Australian Supreme Court. T do not want to take the matter any further because it is now under judicial scrutiny. 1 want only to state that the action is pending, showing that the law of tort still applies and is still a weapon that can be used. 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. If it is correct that farmers in Tasmania are being told by processors that unless they accept pea contracts at the cost of production prices laid down by the processors they will be denied a contract for the more profitable beans and other vegetables, I ask: Does this coercion conflict in any way with the Restrictive Trade Practices Act or any other Act? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry. Because of the supposed difficulty of assessing damage or threat of damage to a local industry by reason of imports into Australia under the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, in the event of an industry claiming that it has suffered serious injury - there are several such industries in the State of Tasmania - will the Government consider referring the matter, on application, to the Tariff Board or an arbitrator appointed by that Board for confirmation or otherwise of the alleged damage? 
1 listened with a lot of interest to what was said by  Senator Bishop,  having in mind his long trade union experience. I am sure all honourable senators were interested in what he had to say about this Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. Much of his speech was devoted to wage increases. He set out to show, at least to his own satisfaction, that wage increases were not the cause of inflation, lt may well be that they are noi the only cause of inflation but this Bill is nor directed at wage increases as such. Even if we had the necessary consitutional power we in Australia have not attempted to bring in legislation such as that introduced in New Zealand under which wages must not increase by more than 7 per cent in any one year. Similar legislation was brought in in the United Kingdom. It set a line beyond which wage increases must not pass. Those 2 countries must have accepted the thesis that wage increases out of hand must have a very definite and distinct bearing on inflation. 
For many years now we have had the situation of wages chasing prices. Which stops first? How do we stop one or the other? The Australian Labor Party says that price control is the answer. 1 have heard it maintained, with a lot of justification, that price control is ineffective unless control is maintained over all the ingredients that go into producing a given article; that if you control prices only then you merely bring about a means of indexing price increases. However that may be,  Mr President,  it is good to look at the reasons which prompted the Government to bring this legislation forward and to consider the background against which it was devised. I am one of those people who say that wage increases are not the whole problem. I go along with an article that appeared in the 'IPA Review'. I believe that honourable senators on the Opposition side do not at all approve of this publication. This article stated: 
. it should be said that wage and salary increases are not the only immediate cause of higher prices. 
I repeat: 'Not the only immediate cause*. The article continues: 
Higher costs for imports are clearly another. Lower export returns for primary products associated with home price support schemes may result in higher domestic prices. Higher prices for other exports, for example beef and zinc, mean higher prices on the domestic market for these commodities. Increases in sales tax and excise duties on such things as cars, beer and cigarettes, result immediately in higher prices to the consumer. Increases in company tax and payroll tax are reflected in higher prices. Increases in charges by governments and their business undertakings for TV and radio licences, postal and telephone services, water, fares and many other things have directly increased the cost of living. They also add to business costs . . . 
This article then went on to say: 
Prolonged strikes in key industries and the under-utilisation of plant capacity mean that overheads have to be spread over a smaller volume of output, thus increasing unit costs and selling prices. Wage and salary increases are thus not the only immediate cause of rising prices, though they constitute the main element. 
I was interested to hear  Senator Bishop  speak of excessive tariff control. One of the statements he read was made by the  Chairman  of the Tariff Board, and it seems strange to me that that gentleman, who probably adjudicated on the assessment of these same tariff duties should have made the admission that tariff protection was excessive in some cases. He did so, however. Others too have said this. I believe even  Mr Whitlam  has said that there is excessive tariff protection for some goods at least. This may well be a factor prompting some employers not to resist excessive wage demands. Very great difficulty has been experienced in the United Kingdom, which has gone through a period of industrial unrest and wage inflation. During that time, I read on one occasion, wages went up by 14 per cent while production rose only by 3 per cent. The United Kingdom went through such a long period of industrial unrest that at long last that country had to take drastic action about it. One of the problems in that country was to induce employers to stand up to these excessive wage demands. 
This is one of the problems facing Australia. It may well be that although tariff protection is excessive in some cases, employers know that they can pass on these increases without very much trouble. In fact I believe that on one occasion an employer said to a farmer's representative: Well, after all, why should we resist this sort of thing? These people are our customers and we merely pass it on." Of course, that is all right, but what happens when we need to export goods and our production costs keep on rising? Surely this may play a part in effecting the ability of this country to compete on export markets. 
I call to my mind that after the wage increase of 6 per cent, I think it was, in September and December 18 months ago, I asked a question in this Senate about the number of applications to the Tariff Board - this was some months afterwards - and to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  for increased tariff protection. The answer was that no applications had been received - yet costs had gone up excessively. It seemed to me that there must have been some leeway in regard to the tariff protection then operating. However,  Mr President,  I want to cite another quotation.  Senator Bishop  quoted the remarks of  Mr Hawke.  I quote from the 'IPA Review' which attributes the following remarks to  Mr Hawke: 
Rising prices didn't matter; all that was required was for the authorities to protect those who were powerless to protect themselves against the consequences of rising prices. The main thing was to ensure that pensions and other social service benefits kept pace with the increases taking place in average community earnings. Then, presumably, nobody would suffer and inflation wouldn't matter. 'What you've got to concentrate on', said  Mr Hawke,  'is growth . . . you've got to have growth to increase real rewards . . . Inflation doesn't matter so long as you have growth'. 
Yet Australia's growth rate is at an appalling 1.4 per cent. The Minister for Labour and National Service has said this: 
The official figures show that working days lost in 1971 increased by 28 per cent over the loss foi 1970 and wages lost increased by 46.5 per cent. Already, this year has seen several serious disputes such as that inflicted on the Stale Electricity Commission of Victoria. That dispute undoubtedly contributed heavily to a very substantial loss in man-days for the  month  of February. 
The effects of industrial disputes on the community are not simply measurable by the loss of man days. This only represents the tip of the iceberg. Strikes and other forms of industrial action cause hardships to workers . . . 
The Minister went on to point to the fact that while only 11,000 SEC workers in Victoria went on strike, 200,000 other workers in Victoria and some thousands in other States were stood down as a result of that strike. If that is conducive to increased productivity- 
 .Some honourable senators make speeches and are heard in comparative silence. When they sit down and someone else makes a speech they babble from the beginning to end of it. They are the ones who rise in this place so often and express the greatest tenderness about the rights and privileges of others. 
 Yes, that is what they do. These things are not conducive to increasing the 1.4 per cent growth in national productivity. Yet  Mr Hawke  would be the last person to deprive unionists of the right to create that kind of retardation in the growth in productivity. We cannot have it both ways. I am one of those people who believe  -  I think rightly - that that same productivity and the ability to market the results of it are the very important bases of this country's standard of living. They are the very bases of the ability of this country to pay for increased social services and to function in all those things which are desirable, such as expenditure on education and other matters. Unless we obtain that increase in productivity our standard of living will go down and down. Not long ago in Hobart someone who was attending a productivity council said that Australia's growth rate of productivity was more than half that of all other countries. 1 believe that is right. We must do something to increase and improve productivity. We must get away from this idea that if anything is done to improve it all that is being done is helping the boss and fattening him. In improving productivity we are improving the whole of the standard of living in this country. 
The socialist countries - it does not matter what 'ism' is attached - have come up against the same problem. They have found that they have to produce- 
Yes. They have found that they have to make their living and pay their way in the world. Whether it be a free enterprise system, a socialist system, a capitalistic system or whatever system it may be, it is up against the same economic causes in regard to the need to increase productivity at a rate which will enable it to compete on the markets of the world. There is no getting away from that. 
Of course it is. lt was the same  Mr Hawke  who, some months ago - 1 am speaking in the general context in which this Bill was introduced - said that the cry of the primary producers about rising prices and costs affecting their productivity was only a whinge from a pampered section of the community. 
The remarks were so offensive to the honourable senator's shadow Minister for Primary Industry that he publicly replied to them. Since 1964 primary producers have suffered a drop of 33 per cent in farm incomes. The honourable senators who are now trying to interject can view things only on a unionemployer basis. The trouble with a lot of honourable senators opposite is that they cannot see past that. They are like men who are looking down a barrel. They cannot see outside the barrel; they must focus on the object at the end of it. During the same period to which I have referred wages and salaries increased by 86 per cent. Over a period of a few years farmers indebtedness increased more than ten-fold. They are the conditions that are bringing about the present state of affairs. I read from a leading article published in a Sydney newspaper some time ago. lt states: 
Sydney and its mushrooming suburbs added 11.03 per cent in 5 years, reaching a population of 2,717.069. Melbourne, devouring its hinterland even faster, grew by 13.3. per cent to 2.388,941. 
That is the position at which Australia is arriving because of continually increasing costs and because of the importation of primary products at a time when most primary producing markets are glutted. Sooner or later, if we are to preserve the rural communities in Australia and if this tendency is to be halted, a plan has to be devised by which the rural communities in Australia will be compensated for the gross imbalance under which they have laboured for many years. I believe that the Bill contains some good provisions. The terms of clause 8 have been advocated many times in this chamber by  Senator Wright  and by others. Under that clause a person shall not be appointed as a  Deputy President  unless he is a person who 'has had experience at a high level in industry, commerce, industrial relations or the service of a government or an authority of a government'. That provision seems to me to be at least a step in the taking of arbitration and conciliation from the legal preserve under which it has operated since its inception. I think there is great justification for the placing in such positions men who have had industrial and commercial experience. Despite what  Senator Bishop  has said, it may well be that the separation of arbitration from conciliation is a move in the right direction. 
I agree with the provisions in the Bill which relate to the amalgamation of unions. When I say that 1 call to mind a statement made by the Minister for Labour and National Service who introduced the Bill in another place. He said that West Germany had I think, only 16 trade unions whereas Australia had 300, and that there was no need for us to have so many trade unions. When I heard him say that I recalled a conversation I had with a fairly high ranking German industrialist who was in Australia at the time. He had come to this country to do a job for the Tasmanian Hydro- Electric Commission. 
I know his name, but it has slipped my memory for the moment. That is immaterial. I was talking to him at the time in Sydney, I think it was at the airport, and he told me that he knew of a worker who was clocking off for two or three others. 
 Senator Cavanagh  is another blatherer who speaks here so often and is heard in comparative silence, but let anyone else try to make a speech and the honourable senator and his ilk blather from beginning to end, yet they profess to be so sensitive about the rights of others in other spheres. This German industrialist - it does not matter to the honourable senator who he was - said: 'I cannot understand you people in this country'. I said: 'Why is that?' He said: 'You have  a  strike among your transport workers at the Sydney aerodrome. If that happened in West Germany the union would discipline the unionist responsible for it. He would probably be expelled from the union. The management would not have anything to do with it. But here, when your management attempts to interfere in a dispute, there is a strike by all the unionists concerned'. That is so. When honourable senators opposite talk about the amalgamation of Australian unions they justify their statements by saying that West Germany has only 16 or 18 unions. But they should take into consideration the apparent difference in outlook of those unions which operate in West Germany. There are provisions in the Bill which regulate proposed amalgamations, and there are people in this country who look upon these amalgamations with a lot of disquiet. 
 I do, too, as do others on this side. They look upon it with disquiet because most of the unions which want to amalgamate are under communist control. In short, they want to create a small community empire. The Minister has sai'd that the success or otherwise of the operation of this Bill when it becomes an Act depends upon the co-operation that is forthcoming from all parties - the unionists, the employers and the Government. But how can one expect co-operation when the top Australian communist has said that the prime objective of the Communist Party is to maintain confrontation between unionists, employers and the state? 
 His  name is Aarons. Carmichael said that the metal trades amalgamation would provide the party with thousands of activists. That does not bode well for any co-operation when this measure becomes an Act. Honourable senators know perfectly well that the parties to the amalgamation are men who have a vested interest in the breaking down of the economy of this country and that the reason they want to amalgamate is to create a bigger, stronger, more amenable organisation to put their aims into practice. They have stated openly that that is their objective and that that is the reason why they want to amalgamate. I am convinced that the ordinary rank and file trade uni'onist - I meet them every day, as does every other honourable senator - does not want this sort of thing. Surely it is reasonable for there to be a provision in this measure for adequate safeguards to be taken to ensure that any amalgamation is done by and with the consent of the ordinary, decent trade unionist. 
If the outlook of all trade unions in this country was the same as the apparent outlook of trade unions in Western Germany and if the trade unions in this country were not controlled by men with a vested interest in a breakdown of the Australian economy no-one would have any worries about amalgamations or the number of trade unions we had. But the experience in this country of Red dominated unions has been bitter. This will be confirmed by anybody in Tasmania who had to put up with unnecessary isolation of his State because Bull, or whatever his name is, the Secretary of the Waterside Workers Federation in Melbourne, did not like the Springboks rugby tour of Victoria. Anyone who has had to go through that sort of thing must Jook askance at any proposals to make these sorts of unions bigger, easier to manipulate and therefore more threatening. If they acted with reason it would be all well and good. But I come from a State which was nearly brought to a standstill because of the actions of some men who influenced certain trade unions on matters which had nothing whatever to do with terms and conditions of employment Action was taken because, through some mental quirk or other, these men did not like something that was going on in their own State. God help us. Do honourable senators not think that penalties should be enforced upon such men? 
That is just futile, stupid, senseless talk. 
 I would. I have in front of me a sheaf of demands from the Waterside Workers Federation to the effect: 'Pay up or we will go out". The shipowners have agreed to some, if not most, of the Federation's demands without reference to any arbitration process whatsoever. They have agreed outside of the arbitration process altogether and outside of any jurisdiction that was competent to make a proper assessment of the claims. The shipowners have simply put up the freights to the State of Tasmania to meet the increased costs. Surely it is reasonable to assume that this sort of thing should be decided by a proper tribunal, especially when it concerns an industry that has been continually raising its freights to make both ends meet. Chifley imposed heavy penalties under the conciliation and arbitration legislation. He did so when he was in office and had certain responsibilities. It was also Chifley who put men in gaol. An honourable senator spoke earlier of hanging them. Chifley put them in gaol. The present Government would never do that. 
 I do not think so. 
 I shall go on in spite of the clatter. The successful operation  nt  this measure depends upon the willingness and co-operation of all parties to it. But when men make statements such as those made by Aarons and Carmichael, I cannot conceive of that co-operation being forthcoming. I cannot imagine such a thing. But I do say that it behoves the Government, on behalf of the people of Australia, to see that this legislation is enforced. I notice that the Heath Government in the United Kingdom - Wilson threatened to do it but did not do it - has imposed a penalty of $170,850 on a trade union under threat of taking over its assets if it did not pay. The trade union paid. I was in New Zealand about 12 months ago. At that time the Secretary of the Seamens Union came on television and, as one man put it, preached bloody revolution. He said it had to come and that ships had to be tied up to break the New Zealand economy. I heard him say that. This situation went on until the people and the Government of New Zealand were fed right up to the teeth with it. Marshall, who is now Prime Minister, stepped in. He de-registered the union. He froze its funds. He broke it altogether with the co-operation of the Secretary of the Federation of Labour,  Mr Skinner,  whose attitude is so different from that of some leading men in the trade union movement in this country. The Prime Minister with the co-operation of  Mr Skinner  worked out rules for the formation of another union, free altogether from communist control. This actually happened. It can be traced through the New Zealand newspapers. Since that time there has been no trouble whatever with the New Zealand seamen as far as my information is concerned. 
If we do not accept this Bill what are we going to do? Are we to have a law with no penalties whatsoever? Is it to be that people can come out and subject the whole community to sabotage? That is what it amounts to. Can the Government reasonably be expected to stand by? It is supposed to defend the rights of people. Is it to stand by and say: 'We are not going to do anything about this'? I have heard very caustic criticism of the present Government because it has not met this position long ago. I hope that when this measure becomes operative the Government will see that the law is carried out in its entirety. I am one of those people who do not believe in strikes except under extraordinary circumstances. 
I thought I would get a comment on that one.  1  am not going to be caught in that way. I say that if it is fair for one section of the community by means of strikes to blackmail and hold the rest of the public to ransom to better its own conditions then surely it is just as reasonable for professional men, people in every other walk of life and for primary producers if they could be so organised to come out on strike and say: No, you are not going to get any more food to eat until you give us this, that and the other'. What is the difference? Yet we have people so often saying in this country: 'We will not take any notice of the legally constituted court unless its decisions favour us. If its decisions do not favour us we will pull our labour out and go on strike'. I was talking to a man in the town near where I live not long ago.  1  said to him: 'You are not at work today?' 
I will tell the honourable senator why he was not at work. He said: 'We are on strike.'  1  said: 'What for?' He said: 'The CIB investigated one of the unionist's premises.' Because it investigated his premises looking for something which had been stolen the rest of them had an  8  hour protest strike. That is a beautiful situation, is it not? 
I do. I saw it happen. There was another occasion when one of the men went into a certain place too often. He stayed there a long time. He was warned  2  or  3  times and then he was sacked. The rest of the men went on strike. Not only that but they demanded the dismissal of the foreman who had sacked the man. Surely there must be some law and some penalty for that kind of irresponsibility. That is not all about which I could tell honourable senators. I believe that the ordinary rank and file trade unionist does not want this sort of thing. I believe that the great majority of them do not want this. But as so often happens the leadership has fallen into the hands of people who are absolutely irresponsible and who have a vested interest in the destruction of the Australian economy. Because of these facts I say that it behoves this Government to enforce the penalties provided in this Bill. If it does not enforce the penalties and do something about this position then it is going to lose a lot of standing with the people of Australia. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister following upon the question asked by  Senator Wood.  At the time the protest against the bombing  of  North Vietnam was delivered  to  the United States, in order to be even-handed why was not an emphatic protest against the invasion  of  South Vietnam by, as reported, 200,000 well equipped troops, which in fact triggered  off  the bombing referred  to  and protested against, delivered  to  the Hanoi Government instead  of  advancing a proposal  to  recognise that Government and to receive some of its trade union representatives in this country? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade whether he has noted reports that primary production in New Zealand is so prosperous that it has been described in some Press comment, including today's Press, as a bonanza, and that astronomical returns are quoted for some commodities. Will the Minister look closely at the deprivations to this country per medium of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement with a view to curtailing damage to the local market of Australian producers? Will the Minister treat this matter as urgent and expedite a reply to the question which I placed on the notice paper yesterday? Will the Minister ascertain the origin of the peas distributed by Rosella Foods Pty Ltd under the brand name 'Surprise'? What percentage of the Rosella company is Australian owned? 
1 think that for the first time I am transgressing on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate.and for that reason I think that  Senator Mulvihill  should remain and listen to me. I want to refer to a statement which appeared today in the Hobart 'Mercury'. Although I do not always agree with the man who made the statement I believe it is correct. He said that the apple industry in Tasmania had reached its moment of truth. An industry that is worth $15m to a small State like Tasmania with a population of 300,000 people is well worth preserving. It is the biggest primary industy we have in that State. It has been struggling for many years against the gravest financial difficulty and I believe that the Government's revaluation has just about put the cap on the whole financial aspect of the apple industry in Tasmania. I remember when New Zealand and the United Kingdom both devalued. The then Department of Trade and Industry estimated that that was the equivalent of a 20 per cent reduction in the Australian tariff. Such a view did the then Government take of the position that some primary industries were compensated on that account because of the intense competition and because of the difficulties experienced in exporting primary products to the United Kingdom. 
Now this currency change is working the other way. This Government has revalued and it has placed a burden on everything that ;s exported from this country. I believe that unless some concrete assistance is brought to bear on this industry it will be the last straw that breaks the camel's back. 
In the same newspaper in which  Mr Brown,  the secretary of the industry organisation, made these grim comments there appeared another statement which relates to a 25 per cent rise in the minimum basic wage. I am not arguing about that matter at all, but the statement went on to say that employers of men on the minimum wage will face a total extra wages bill of S200m a year. The newspaper article states: 
Federal Cabinet has decided that the Government will join with the ACTU in pressing for a 25 per cent increase in the minimum wage. 
The Government is favourable to that proposition and will join with the Australian Council of Trade Unions in pressing for it. This article continues: 
This would increase the minimum wage from the present average of SSI. 80 to $65 a week. 
I conclude by saying that nearly all of these costs, if not all of them, must be met ultimately from the pockets of the producers. This additional impost and all the other imposts on the community, if they are not met in a more generous manner than that detailed by  Senator Wright,  will spell the end of the apple industry in Australia. I often look around the Huon Valley and the. Tamar Valley at the closer settlement, the homesteads, the buildings and the people who have gathered there. As far as I know they are living happy lives. Imagine what would happen to those areas if anything drastic happened to this industry. The Government holds the purse strings for the whole Commonwealth. It apparently proposes to go to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and press for a $200m a year increase in the wage bill. As far as the apple industry is concerned the Government should come to life and make the industry a viable proposition. 
1 direct to the Minister for Primary Industry a question relative to the proposal to establish a vegetable processing factory on the north-west coast of Tasmania. Is the Minister in a position to express an opinion as to its feasibility, particularly the practicability of paying the wages contemplated, as well as providing a reasonable return to producers and competing with New Zealand importations, a substantial part of which are in the hands of New Zealand interests? Can we take seriously the proposal to export processed vegetable products from this country to mainland China which has one of the lowest standards of living on earth? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the 
Environment. It concerns the proposed inquiry into the Lake Pedder hydro-electric scheme. Because this work was agreed to by the sovereign State of Tasmania in 1967 and is its constitutional responsibility and because the work has been practically completed - to the extent that the resultant enlargement is approximately three-quarters full - is it not ludicrous, purposeless and asinine to conduct an inquiry now into the proposition, which actually is of little concern to the Commonwealth? Is it any wonder that  Mr Reece  says he is tired of the whole silly business? Could not the time and money that this inquiry will cost be spent to better purpose than on an exercise in futility? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it not a fact that because of the terrific spurt in inflation over the past 2 or 3 months itis proposed to implement a prices and incomes freeze by what must be an unwieldy application of joint Commonwealth and State powers? Is it not a fact also that the Commonwealth Government itself is stoking the fires of inflation by its consistent support of an increase in money wages which is the most potent inflationary element unless accompanied by increases in production and services rendered? I ask the Minister: If this prices and incomes freeze eventuates in this fashion, will it not be necessary for the Government to desist from the inflationary actions which it has undertaken over the past 2 or 3 months since it assumed office while the freeze is in operation - that is, if it eventuates? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation say whether it is still proposed to carry on with the abortive inquiry into the Gordon River power scheme in Tasmania, which is almost completed, when  Mr Reece  says that the inquiry is humiliating to him and in fact has demanded curbs on the inquiry, which has been refused by  Dr Cass?  If, by some strange reasoning, the committee of inquiry condemns this scheme, can the Minister indicate in what way any knowledge gained could be applied to the Pieman scheme, the next on the list, which proposal is utterly different structurally from the Gordon River scheme? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Is it not a fact that radioactive fallout from a nuclear explosion in China is just as potent to the world's atmosphere as one in the Pacific? Has it ever been contemplated that representations be made to the People's Republic of China - as they call it - along the grounds 1 have- indicated? 
My question is directed te the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Because China is such a meagre unit in terms of world trade, ranking a little higher than Taiwan - which is, of course, a very much smaller country - on this ground alone can the cost of  Dr Cairns's  visit to that country be justified at all; or, so far as accruing more trade for Australia is concerned, can the cost of extra officials covering the inauguration of the new Australian Ambassador to China be justified? 
This will not be the first time t'hat t have spoken in this chamber on the subject of capital punishment. Because I believe that this Bill is such a serious proposition. I propose to make a few brief observations about it. I noted what  Senator Wright  had to say about some of  Senator Carrick's  observations. I could not help but be surprised by 2 or 3 of the things he said when he spoke about the abolition of lethal conflict. One of the things  Senator Carrick  proposed was the abolition of the penalty that lethal conflict should incur. He went on to say that the death penalty precluded any possibility whatever of rehabilitation. 
This is where I want to bring  Senator Cavanagh  in. When  Senator Bonner  was speaking in the debate on this Bill last week lie asked: 'Who is to say that a criminal will not repeat his crime?" By way of interjection  Senator Cavanagh  said: 'The doctor".  Senator Bonner  went on to say: 'The doctor will say that the man will not commit a crime?"  Senator Cavanagh  interjected: 'The doctor is the expert'. I believe that the community cannot afford the mistakes that are being made by the so-called experts - the psychiatrists - in regard to these matters.  Senator Wood  spoke about the case of a man who murdered his mother and 3 or 4 other people. I took particular note of the fact that that man was examined by psychiatrists before being designated as harmless and released from gaol. On his release he immediately proceeded to murder more people. Not many years ago a man was convicted in Sydney for strangling and raping a girl and was sentenced to gaol. During the 7 years he was in prison he was treated by psychiatrists. At the end of 7 years he was regarded as having been cured and let out. He immediately committed the same crime in a worse fashion. I repeat thai one cannot afford to take the risk that the alleged experts will not make mistakes in their assessment of people. The point I am trying to make is that a man who is past rehabilitation cannot be restored to a decent position in society. I say without the slightest hesitation that I would destroy him as one would destroy a mad dog. 
What scares me about this proposition is that we could arrive at the position that has been arrived at in the United States of America and the United Kingdom, where the death penalty has been abolished. F believe it is a fact that half of the Stales of the United States of America are considering measures to bring back capital punishment. They are doing that because of the tremendous leap forward in their murder rales. 
Yes. They are looking for ways and means to get around that judgment. I go along with what  Senator Wood  said. I believe that one of the factors contributing to the violence that we see in the country in which we live and in the world in which we live is the fact that for some strange reason the sympathies of the general public are nearly always with the accused person and very seldom with the victim. I believe that this strange psychological factor is responsible for the meagre penalties that are being imposed. I believe that it is also partly responsible for the great increase that we have seen in the crime rate in this country and in most other countries. 
There has been some agitation in the United Kingdom for the return of the death penalty, particularly for the killing of policemen. I was very interested in an article by James McMillan entitled 'The gun supersedes the rope'. In it he said that in 2 months more people were executed by the law - that is in the streets - than were hanged in Britain in the 2 years before capital punishment was abolished in 1965. He went on to say: 
The old argument about capital punishment Ls already being revived in Parliament. lt is, alas, one which rouses furious emotion and very little reason. 
By abolishing the death penalty criminals are now carrying guns because they know their sentence - a few years in prison - will be the same whether they kill anybody or not. So they shoot. 
And the police shoot back to protect themselves. For that reason, as I said a moment ago, more people have been executed by the law in the streets than were hanged in the 2 years prior to the abolition of capital punishment. The article also stated: 
They may even kill without provocation,  as  they did . . . 
A certain gentleman was mentioned. The article continued: 
He did not resist, but he was still murdered. 
It has been stated during the debate that a referendum was held in California. It was. There was vote of 2 to 1 in favour of the reintroduction of the death penalty. Twothirds of the people who voted voted for its reintroduction. I will admit that the vote was given terrific impetus by reason of the fact that a gang of young fellows who were going down the road in a motor car had a gun, and as they went along the road they shot a 2- year-old toddler who was in a yard. They slowed down the car. One of the fellows put the gun out through the window and shot the toddler dead. They laughed their heads off and drove away. I cannot understand the mentality of anybody who would say that a person capable of such an offence is fit to go on living and can be rehabilitated in society. 
That was in the report. 
They shot the kiddie. They were apprehended. They were asked why they did it. It was divulged that they did it for kicks. Yet people in this chamber would say that persons such as that are fit to go on living. I do not hesitate for one moment to say thai I would destroy them without the slightest compunction. Such people are beyond rehabilitation. I do not think they could ever be made or induced to take a decent place in society. 
I believe that the death penalty will be abolished in the Australian Capital Territory and in other Australian Territories. I believe that in some cases its imposition is the only way in which justice can be done. 1 believe that the penalty for some crimes can be only the extreme penalty. People say that it is no deterrent. The 2 countries which I have mentioned have not found that to be so. If it is no deterrent, no punishment is any deterrent. So why not abolish all penalties? Why not throw everything out through the window, let everything take its course, and let people do as they like? That argument was referred to by  Mr McMillan  in his article. He spoke about a lot of emotion and very little reason. The people who decry capital punishment by saying that it is no deterrent do so without any means of assessing that it is not. They have no means of proving their case. They are using their emotions with very little reason. I am genuinely concerned that if we abolish the death penalty and if its abolition becomes almost uniform in Australia we will live to regret it and we will live to see movements to bring about its restoration. That is what will happen. We will go down the scale, as the United Kingdom and the United States have done. We will have no reserve power. As  Senator Wright  has pointed out, where it has been used it has been of great advantage. 
We will have no reserve power to mete out adequate justice for these crimes of horror which are committed by animals who are not fit to live but who will be kept by the state, under supervision, as long as they choose to go on living. I will have no hesitation in voting against the Bill. 
I will not try to reply to  Senator Georges  except to say that there is nothing of William Pitt about him. 
1 said that there is nothing of William Pitt about the honourable senator. 
Pitt. I think that it was William Pitt who said: T disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it'. 
1 stand corrected. I believe that this Commonwealth Parliament  since  Federation- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)  - Order! I remind honourable senators that  Senator Lillico  has the call. I propose to ensure that he is heard in silence. I ask honourable senators to cease this constant interjection across the Senate chamber. I remind them that they are being broadcast across the national radio network. The standard and quality of debate in the Senate is of some merit. I would hope that it would be maintained. This institution is on trial this evening before the electorate of Australia because its proceedings are being broadcast on the national radio network. I ask honourable senators to remember that. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was in the course of saying that I believe that the Commonwealth democratic system, as operated by the Commonwealth Parliament since Federation, has reflected the will of the people, with few exceptions, better than those systems operated in most other countries. I would say that one of the exceptions would be  New Zealand. It has been reiterated during the course of this debate that the strength of political parties in the Parliament has reflected the number of votes that were cast for them in the electorates. This Bill is a pointer, a pipe opener or an indication of what, is yet  to come. We have heard something about the first past the post voting system.  Senator .  Georges would use that system to obliterate small political parties. He would stifle their influence, nullify their preferences and eventually evolve a system under which only 2 parties would be elected to the Parliament. 
Yes, I think that the honourable senator got it down to one party. The same first past the post system in the United Kingdom reduced the once great Liberal Party in that country to a party comprising 11 members in a House of approximately 600 members. As Lloyd George used to say, at every election his Party used to be tripped by the triangle. . It continued until there evolved a system in the United Kingdom under which there were only 2 parties. I have been amazed at times at the reflection of the votes cast because the votes cast for  a  certain political party were in no way reflected in the percentage of members returned. It seems to me to be  a  most haphazard, go-as-you-please method of electing  a  - Parliament. Contrasted to this, it has been claimed that the Tasmanian system is as near as possible to perfection, even with all its disabilities, inasmuch as the percentage of people who vote for the Labor Party, for example, is reflected in almost the same percentage of Labor members elected. In the United Kingdom it is hard to imagine such a system when comparing the number of electors who voted for a particular party with the number of members of that party who were elected to the Parliament. I believe that a lot of that trouble was due to the first past the post system that operated in that country. 
This Bill is a pointer. It does not contain much. The crux of the Bill is to be found in that part of the second reading speech of the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  which dealt with deleting references to disabilities arising out of remoteness or distance, the density or sparsity of population of the division, the area of the division and so on. He also spoke about altering the 20 per cent discretion to a 10 per cent discretion. A lot of the arguments which were used by supporters of the Bill fall to the ground. I am one of those people who would increase country representation. 
No, I would not give the cows a vote. I would not treat the people like a lot of cows and herd them into electorates which are supposedly equal in number of voters and not have regard to the problems which are confronting them and the type of representation which is necessary for them. A lot of the arguments of supporters of the Bill fall to the ground by reason of the fact that we are not dealing in any way with a normal country. Australia is not a normal country. Fourteen years have elapsed since the report of the Joint Committee on Constitutional Review was tabled in this place. I have no doubt that, taking into consideration all that has happened since that report was tabled, a lot of the members of that Committee would have very different opinions today. I quote from a leading article in the Melbourne Herald'. K states: 
Further ominous facts on the clotting of our population come from the Census Bureau. They show that 8S.S per cent of Australians, at the census last June, were living in towns and cities - compared with 82.9 per cent 5 years earlier. 
The worst feature is the growth rate of the largest cities. These already held the bulk of our unevenly distributed people. Now they are swelling more monstrously. 
Sydney and its mushrooming suburbs added 11.03 per cent in 5 years, reaching a population of 2,717,069. Melbourne, devouring its hinterland even faster, grew by 13.3 per cent to 2,388,941. Once we might have been proud to see such figures hoisted. Now, we ought to be alarmed. 
So we should. If one adds to that terrific acceleration towards centralisation the proposals contained in this Bill, one goes a long way towards extinguishing altogether the rural vote, the rural voice and the rural influence. 
It is since 1969 that this growth towards centralisation has accelerated at such an alarming rate. The Bill has come at a time when the Government is proposing to do something about halting that acceleration. The Government has talked about the Albury-Wodonga scheme and other things. It has tried to do something about this monstrously centralised population which has no equal anywhere on earth. Senators, without any regard to that fact, talk about one man one vote under conditions in which the metropolitan area of Sydney alone elects as many members of the House of Representatives as do the States of South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania combined. Is that a healthy sign? 
The Minister talks about the Senate. We heard what the Government proposes to do in regard to the Senate. I will not take up time reiterating that. I  Van  think of no worse fate which could befall this country than that it should have one House of Parliament in the Federal sphere. Honourable senators should remember the position in respect of delegated State powers. The State parliaments will lose all their powers except those delegated to them. I cannot think of anything worse than the abolition of the Senate which would mean that the holding of power and the concentration of power was in the hands of a coterie which was largely from the big cities of Melbourne and Sydney. I cannot think of anything more calculated to rend Australia asunder. 
If the honourable senator had taken some regard of the evils of excessive centralisation in history he might have said something very different to that. I wish to say a word or two about this fetish of one man one vote in this country where most of the people are herded into the cities. The Government proposes to apply that principle. There would be some logic in applying it in a country such as the United Kingdom. In my view, to try to apply it in a country such as Australia is sheer lunacy. But it is a fetish, a Wi'l-o'-th'-Wisp, a delusion. The Minister, in his second reading speech, mentioned certain electorates, and I took note of the fact that in one electorate 43 per cent of the population did not have a vote. I suppose that they were not old enough to have a vote. In another electorate 60 per cent of the population did not have a vote. It was rumoured, it was reported and it was said in this place that the fairest way in which to perfect this one man one vote principle was to divide electorates so that they were commensurate with their populations. If we did that we would get a terrific disparity in regard to the people who actually voted. Eventually we would reach the stage, I think, at which we were just chasing a Will-o'-th'-Wisp. It is all very fine to try to apply these things when some political advantage is to be gained from them. In this place last year I heard the story about a union election. 
Yes. I think 18,000 members did not get a ballot paper. That is one of the unions upon which the Labor Party claims that it is based. Now it proposes to bring forward legislation to facilitate the amalgamation of trade unions. That legislation will provide that only half of the membership of a union need vote on a proposed amalgamation and that only half of the membership voting need vote in favour of the proposed amalgamation for it to be given effect. In other words, just over a quarter of the membership of a union could effect an amalgamation that affects all of the members of the trade union concerned. There is a lot of merit in what  Senator McManus  has said about this matter. Apparently it is all very well to do these sorts of 'things when there is some political advantage to be gained. 
There has been a lot of talk about the principle of one vote one value. Years ago during the term of office of the Curtin Government I did something which I seldom do but which I have never forgotten - I sat at home and listened to a Parliamentary broadcast. Most of the speeches were sanctimonious speeches about a sacred principle that is enshrined in the platform of the Australian Labor Party, that is, the principle of one man one vote one value. Speech after speech was delivered on that occasion as to how this was the very essence of democracy. I have never forgotten that. It is one of those things that through the course of my lifetime has remained fixed in my mind. It was not long afterwards that Billy Hughes said, referring to people who talk about this alleged sacrosanct principle of one vote one value: 
The members of the Government come into the citadel and propose, upon the pretence of some innocent and beneficent purpose, to disembowel, to eviscerate, to emasculate the Constitution, and to do all this while still posing as federalists. 
Billy Hughes could have gone on and said: and do it all merely by an Act of Parliament without any reference to the people whatsoever'. I was a lot more innocent then than I am now, although I suppose I am still innocent. Billy Hughes was speaking about the kind of people whom I have heard delivering high principled speeches about how important it was that all the tenets of democracy should be observed to the utmost. Whenever I have heard that fantasy trotted out - it is fantasy because it is impossible to achieve - I have been left as cold as a stone. I shall cast my vote against this Bill. I take no notice of the various threats that have been handed out. 
That is a good many years ahead. I believe that it is entirely necessary that the voice of the people from the remote areas of this country should be given due credence and that their problems should be brought forth before the Commonwealth Parliament. I oppose this measure. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that the Joint Australia/New Zealand Pea and Bean Panel which was set up to regulate imports of both commodities to Australia, has not met for approximately 12 months? Can the Minister indicate the date of the last meeting of this panel? If the panel has not met for approxmately 12 months,, does it mean 'that all pretence of regulating imports of these commodities into Australia has been abandoned? Will the Government, in the interests of its own producers, give earnest and serious' consideration to using its Department of : Overseas Trade officials as the regulating authority for these imports rather than a panel the majority of which have a direct vested' interest in importing into Australia as many peas and' beans as possible? ' ' 
I direct a question to  the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the qualifications that are necessary for producer membership of the Australia-New Zealand Pea and Beans Panel? It is necessary for a producer representative to be a supplier to a particular processing company or is it only necessary, as it should be, for him to be a supplier to any company? 
Because it is a Government sponsored panel, will the Minister closely investigate this matter? 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
Will  the  proposed  trade talks between the  Australian  and New  Zealand Ministers  for Trade, to be  held shortly,  be in  depth,  so as to  include  more  products within Schedule A. 
Is the Government of the same opinion as when it was the Opposition and when it supported amendments in the Senate to the original agreement in an attempt to safeguard producers of this country against the importation of some New Zealand commodities. 
Is the Minister fully aware of the serious damage which has been done to some Australian producers by certain imports from New Zealand. 
Will the Government, before any moves are made towards greater trading relations with New Zealand, delay long enough to peruse the report on the matter, by the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade which is inquiring into the subject. 

 Senator WRIEDT- The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
The Ministerial meeting on NAFTA just concluded provided the first opportunity since the two new Governments came into office for my New Zealand colleague, the Honourable W. W. Freer, Minister of Trade and Industry, and myself to conduct a wide-ranging review of the objectives and operation of the Agreement. As a result of the discussions, it was decided that a number of new measures which could provide for partial free trade between the two countries would be investigated in consultation with industry. It is hoped that experience with these measures, if found practicable, will in time lead to further expansion of Schedule A. 
The new Governments of both countries are agreed that they should continue the development of NAFTA in a way which would avoid injury to existing industries in Australia and New Zealand. 
I am aware that some industries have complained of damage from imports from New Zealand. However, I am informed that no Australian industry has substantiated a case of serious injury sufficiently to invoke the safeguard clauses of the Agreement. 
The Government will be very interested to receive and peruse the report by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade in respect of Australia/ New Zealand Trade and Commerce. The Government will take due cognisance of any recommendations made by that Committee. 
-Although this measure does not provide specifically for the amalgamation of municipalities- 
An Amendment proposed but not seconded shall not be further debated. 
An amendment has been submitted to the Senate but no seconder was forthcoming. Since the amendment was moved there has been a speaker who said that he would support the amendment, but there has been no seconder of the amendment. Under standing order 140, the amendment therefore shall not be further debated. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - I have, considered the point of order. I understand that it is the practice when an amendment is moved by the leader of a party it is deemed to have the support of that party. To that extent, in practice such an amendment has not been required to be seconded. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT - I think that it is the practice of the Senate rather than a provision in the Standing Orders. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- My ruling stands. 
 I was saying that while this measure does not provide specifically for the amalgamation of municipalities,  Senator Gietzelt  said something along those lines. For 40 years I have heard it said with consistent regularity by some people that the way to overcome the difficulties confronting municipalities was by their amalgamation. I have always been one of those who hold the view that no matter how one alters municipal boundaries and no matter how one amalgamates municipalities, it does not alter the fact that if one alters the boundaries of 2 impoverished municipalities all one gets is one bigger impoverished municipality. It would not alter the fact that for many years there ..as not been sufficient money to finance local government. It has been dependent almost entirely upon rates levied on properties, and in cases those rates have become so high in order to finance the functions of local government that in some cases they have almost become rent for the property concerned. 
I rise to speak because I believe that if any State in the Commonwealth can claim credit for the inauguration of the Commonwealth Grants Commission it is the State of Tasmania. I recall to mind what happened about 40 years ago when Tasmania, being probably the poorest State in the Commonwealth, was in the position that when things became desperate its Premier would go to Melbourne, and latterly to Canberra, and consult with the Prime Minister of the time to try to prise a few pounds from him in order that the State should continue to function economically. It is reputed that one Tasmanian Premier came to Canberra, saw the Prime Minister and said: I have come to speak to you about Tasmanian affairs' and the Prime Minister of the day said: Damn you and Tasmanian affairs'. I think he went back empty handed or close to it. It was the late J. A. Lyons who was a Premier of Tasmania who experienced the awful cap in hand business that every Premier of that State had to go through. When he became Prime Minister of this country he inaugurated the Commonwealth Grants Commission. He said:'I am going to put State-Commonwealth financial relations so far as the claimant States are concerned on a very different basis. I am going to have some machinery that apportions finance to these States in a fair and equitable manner so that it will not be necessary to go cap in hand on one's knees to the Commonwealth Government in order to get a little bit of extra finance to carry on'. 
I suppose that if there is an institution in this Commonwealth 'that has proved to be an outstanding success it is this same Grants Commission. Premiers of my State at least, both Labor and Liberal, have all been consistent in their eulogies of the work that has been done by the Australian Grants Commission. So I believe that most Tasmanian people in public life and others are jealous of it and anxious to see it continue to function as satisfactorily as it has functioned over the years. In his second reading speech the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said that there would be approximately 900 local government areas which would be grouped into regions and that this same Grants Com mission would investigate their finances and recommend that funds be allocated to them in the same way as it functions so far as the claimant States are concerned. Over the years the Commission has with regularity gone to Hobart, to Perth and Adelaide every 12 months and it has investigated the affairs  of  the State governments concerned and made recommendations accordingly. The fear must be present that this same body can be so overloaded by the inclusion, although they are to be grouped into regions, of 900 bodies whose financial affairs are to be adjudicated upon and recommendations made accordingly. 
I believe that it would be a sorry day for the small States in this Commonwealth if the Grants Commission were to fall into the same state of existence as the Tariff Board where it has been said that it takes 2 years to make an inquiry into some things, some of the law courts and other commissions and organisations that function under the jurisdiction of the various States and the Commonwealth. I do not believe one of them compares with this same Grants Commission so far as regularity of its findings and its investigations are concerned. I for one would be very sorry  to  see anything done that would disturb it and be detrimental to its continued efficiency. This problem has always been with us. For 70 years since the cessation of the Braddon clause - I think that is what it was called - which continued for a few years after federation, all of the States, not just the claimant States, have been in financial difficulty. This situation applied even before 'the introduction of uniform taxation which some States have claimed is one of the things which has impoverished them. 
Not long agoI came across a statement which was made 40 years ago by R. G. Menzies when he was Attorney-General of Victoria. He said: 
I believe that we cannot cure this trouble of disequilibrium by making some special grant to a State in 1934, by giving to the States some share of revenue raised from petrol taxation for two or three years, or by conferring some other temporary financial benefit. Every time the States ask for additional assistance, every time they are forced to place themselves on the bounty of a financially all-powerful Commonwealth, they strengthen the position against themselves under the Constitution. 
This is R. G. Menzies speaking when he was Attorney-General of Victoria. 
Well, he is an authority en State and Federal government and I would say that he would have a fair smattering of the difficulties of local government. He went on to say: 
Unless the States are to be placed permanently in the position of mendicants, whose sovereign independence is a mere sham, it is imperative in their interests and in the interests of the people of Australia as a whole, that some way should be found under the Constitution to get rid of this want of balance, so as to make the independence of State legislative and executive authorities a real thing. 
R. G. Menzies. 
R. G. Menzies made those remarks in 1934. They were part of a case that was prepared by  Mr E.  Dwyer-Gray, the Labor Treasurer of Tasmania for submission to a Premiers Conference at which R. G. Menzies was present.  Mr E.  Dwyer-Gray went on to analyse the position that had existed right up to that year from federation. 
He pointed out that over the years to 1941-42 the Commonwealth, on the one hand, had shown an aggregate surplus - not a big one - of $1.5m and that the States, on the other hand, from the cessation of the Braddon clause in 1909-10 to 1941-42 had shown a deficit of $85. 3m. I repeat that this was before the introduction of uniform taxation. It indicates clearly that the founders of the Constitution, the various State Premiers Conferences and Commonwealth Parliaments have never found a way out of this impasse of StateCommonwealth financial relations. 
Debate interrupted. 
Following upon a reply  I  received from the Minister for Primary Industry last week,  I  ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Will the Government undertake a close scrutiny of the ownership and control, whether Australian or overseas, of food processing plants in this country? Will the Government especially request the Committee which has been set up for this purpose to scan particularly the activities of overseas owned companies, some being  100  per cent overseas owned, which while functioning in Australia also do a mighty lot of importing from overseas to the serious detriment of the Australian producer? Does not the Leader of the Government in the Senate believe that the Australian producer has every right to look to the Government for protection from this kind of competition? 
I spoke last night about an address delivered to a Premiers Conference 40 years ago by the then Attorney-General of Victoria,  Mr Robert  Gordon Menzies. In that address he spoke about the serious disequilibrium of CommonwealthState financial relations. He said further that since 1909-1910 when the provisions of what is known as the 'Braddon clause' terminated - and this applies up to the present time - overall the States had been in a minus position. While they had been in a minus position, I believe that local government possibly had fared worst of all in that it was on the end of the limb. It had no redress.' Requests, propositions and pleas for assistance from local government had been disregarded. In the main the only way of financing local government was the rate levy on property. 
This measure has now come to light. I say with a feeling of foreboding that a commission which has functioned so satisfactorily over a number of years and beyond any doubt or question has been the salvation of the small States, will have loaded on to it additional functions in dealing with applications for grants from a dozen or more organisations. It will have to investigate the affairs of these bodies. It seems to me to be a fair and reasonable principle in government surely, and in nearly everything else, that if a system is functioning well - as this has undoubtedly functioned well - it should be left alone to continue its good work. lt seems to me to be a great pity that the down to earth, practical, common sense and federal proposition put up by  Senator Cotton  to help municipalities out of the pass into which they have fallen, was not adopted by this Government. I regret it very much indeed. But the system the Government has adopted and the method it has chosen are dear to the heart of the centralist. The method will circumvent the parliaments of the various States. The Government will be able to group municipalities into regions. Those municipalities then will be in the position to apply to the Grants Commission practically without consultation with the State governments. It is true that the Bill provides that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, after consultation with the appropriate Minister for the State concerned, approve an organisation or body, and so on. I ask honourable senators to note the words after consultation'. 

 Senator Gietzelt last night referred to that provision as a safeguard, when it is perfectly obvious that the Commonwealth Minister for Urban and Regional Development can confer with the States until he is black in the face and then say: 'We are not going to take any notice of you. You can go and jump in the lake.' That is positively no safeguard whatsoever. The Minister can designate areas throughout the Commonwealth to be eligible for grants. The present Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  rose in another place some time ago and had a mighty lot of fulmination about the Lake Pedder scheme. He roundly criticised it but finally was forced to admit that he had never been there and did not know anything about it. This is the one man who is able initially to put these things into operation. This is just the sort of system that would be adopted by a centralist government. 
I am one of those people who believe that one of the worst tragedies that could happen to the Commonwealth of Australia - we heard a speech along these lines from  Senator Greenwood  only last week - would be for the affairs of this country to be regulated and administered from one central spot, because within this continent of Australia there are varying geographic, climatic and other conditions. I remember reading about the first conventions that were held to formulate the Australian Constitution. I think that the first 2 conventions were attended by representatives from New Zealand. After attending those 2 conventions the New Zealand representatives said that they would not attend any more because they were not partial to the idea of entering into the Australian federation at all. They gave as their reason that they believed that a central government in Australia would be too remote to be responsive to local conditions; that it would be too far away from the people of New Zealand to enable them to have any control over it. I have never forgotten those words. I believe that they were true then and they are true today of a great many regions on the Australian continent. One only has to approach the centralist Government regarding a matter similar to the King Island shipping position or the undue importation of primary products into one part of the continent to realise just how far one gets and how difficult it is to get this centralist Government to appreciate conditions as they affect local people. 
Under this legislation we will arrive at a position where several regions will be designated by one Minister here in Canberra. That Minister certainly will not be familiar with conditions as they exist all over the Commonwealth. Probably, there will be a dozen or more groupings of authorities into regions. As the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said in his second reading speech, there are 900 local governing authorities throughout Australia, and these authorities will be grouped together and given the right, along with the States, to apply to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. One cannot escape the thought that with all these regions in addition to the claimant States applying to the Grants Commission, which has performed so well in the past, eventually, instead of the States having jurisdiction over these local regions, they will be just one other body applying to the Commission. 
I admit that I am a State righter. I repeat that I believe that it would be a complete tragedy if this Commonwealth were to be regulated as the Labor Party envisages in its policy. This would involve the abolition of the Senate and the abrogation of the powers of State parliaments which would then handle only what is termed 'delegated power*. So eventually one House of Parliament would have vested in it the real power of the Commonwealth. I believe that that is one of the greatest tragedies that could confront Australia. An admirable method is used in this Bill - I say in passing that it should not be supported - to circumvent the States, to ignore them and to take over jurisdiction which State Governments have held since their establishment. Much as I believe that local government should be helped in every possible way, I believe that it should have been given in the way that  Senator Cotton  outlined in his speech yesterday. Honourable senators may seek comfort from this: I think it was last Saturday week that there was a Legislative Council election in Tasmania in respect of 3 divisions. Those elections are no longer. as people used to say, the prerogative of the privileged few. They are conducted on a universal franchise basis and voting is compulsory. In that election Labor fared badly. One Labor candidate in one of those electorates made a public statement which was featured in the Press, for a wonder, because most sections of the Press have not been our way for a long time. That candidate said: 'I was beaten by the fear that the people have of the Federal Labor Government in Canberra. Six months ago I would have won this seat but such is the fear and the dread that the people have of the Federal Goverment in Canberra that I did not have a hope in life of winning'. 
Yes. I believe that as time goes on and as more measures like this one are passed, men who think along those lines will become legion and that this Government will eventually go out of office. I regret that this matter has not been approached in a Federal spirit, as has been outlined. This could have been done this most be done. Last evening I referred to R. G. Menzies and a statement he made when he was AttorneyGeneral of Victoria. He said: There is one strange thing about a central government. It always believes that it can do things better than the people who are elected right on the spot* - so it does - 'whereas exactly the opposite is the case'. So it is. 
Yes, a Labor government in Tasmania but it is a local government. It is a government which has jurisdiction over the island of Tasmania alone. I tell the honourable senator that if that same Labor Government had done some of the things in Tasmania which the Federal Government has done - for example, had it sponsored such a thing as the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement - it would not have survived the next election. But if one tries to convince the supporters of this centralist Government of the harm that it is doing, and has done, they cannot see it any more than they could see Mt Kosciusko if they stood at the bottom of the mountain and it was right in front of them. Because this Government is not responsive to local conditions- 
 The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The . honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry a question based upon a reply that he gave to a question by me last week. Is he aware that the reason why there has been no case of serious injury sufficient to invoke the safeguard clauses of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement appears to be because of a determination not to accept any claim of damage under any circumstances? Would the Minister indicate whether the departmental officer who induced the former Minister for Trade and Industry to take up this attitude is now feeding the same folly to the present Minister? Would the Minister admit that imports to an already glutted market are the cause of considerable damage to that market? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Does the Minister agree with the statement made in Ottawa by the Prime Minister in which he seemed to excuse China for conducting nuclear tests but said that the French action was monstrous? Does the Minister believe that there are degrees of culpability in this matter? Is it not a case of sheer hypocrisy to accept trade delegations from one nuclear testing country and enter into trading agreements with it and at the same time to threaten to sever all relations with the other country? Is the Minister aware that the Mayor of Auckland refused to welcome the Chinese trade delegation officially because, as he publicly stated, he placed the Chinese in the same category as the French in regard to nuclear testing? Is it not a fact that whatever verbal protest the Government may have made to China it is entirely different from the positive hostile action taken 'against France? 
 I support  Senator Primmer  in his remarks because I sincerely hope that some cognisance will be taken of the report presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade after doing a mighty lot of work and hearing a great deal of evidence. I ask for leave to continue my remarks at a later time. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Can the Special Minister of State in his capacity as Minister representing the Treasurer indicate what progress has been made with the proposal announced some time ago to assist North Vietnam to rehabilitate its country? How much assistance has already been given by the Government? 
Further, should it not be necessary for that country to absolve itself from all acts of aggression against its neighbours before any assistance whatever is forthcoming from this Government? 
I rise to support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I have thought often of the awful position in which the British Government has placed itself in regard to Northern Ireland - although I doubt that it could be said that treason is involved in this instance. I do not attempt to say which side is right and which side is wrong. But in that country we have a position where people can go on the rampage with bombs, throw them into shops and slaughter innocent people wantonly and with premeditation, and if they are caught nothing can be done except put them in gaol. It seems to me that in a case like that justice can be done only by meting out the death penalty. There is no other way.  Senator Webster  spoke of people who with deliberation, forethought and premeditation can attempt to sell this country or part of it and to sell their fellow men down the drain. We are abolishing the only method by which justice can be meted out to them. I say without any hesitation whatever that without the slightest compunction I would hang those responsible for some things that are happening in the world today. In doing that I think that I would be meting out justice in the only way in which it could be done. 
It is not long ago - I referred to this when I spoke during the second reading of the Death Penalty Abolition Bill - that I pointed out that it is claimed by statistics that since the death penalty was abolished in the United Kingdom the number of people shot in the streets, by other citizens or by the police, has increased tenfold. These statistics went on to show that instead of executing persons in prison cells the people are executing each other in the streets and the police are doing it in the streets as matter of self -protection. It seems to me that some people have an obsession about capital punishment. There is a great desire to do away with what I believe is the only method by which ultimate justice can be meted out. This great desire to throw it all away is a sign of the times in which we live. Those things which we valued so much in the past do not matter any more and people traduce them and throw them away and we do not bother to punish them. We let them go. The thing is a fetish. I believe that this abolition is something which this country will regret in the future as it has been regretted in other parts of the world where the death penalty has been abolished. 
The complete and absolute absurdity of the Labor Party is demonstrated by the fact that the death penalty provision is only a reserve power. It was used in Tasmania by a Labor Government. We had a Labor Government in office in Tasmania for 30-odd years and this power was used once. At the time I said to a Labor member: 'I thought you people were against capital punishment; that you did not believe in hanging anyone'. He said: 'Oh yes, so we are but this bloke was so bad that we just had to do it', and they did. They hanged him. There are people who perpetrate crimes which in my view are so horrible - I refer to some of the things which are happening in Northern Ireland and an incident which occurred in Brisbane not so very long ago - that there is only one way by which justice can be meted out, and that is by means of capital punishment. Anything else is just flimsy; it is poor. A few years gaol for some of the most horrible offences known to man is, in my opinion, completely and absolutely inadequate. Especially is that true in regard to the crime of treason against one's country and one's fellow man. 
Question put: 
That the clause proposed to be added  (Senator Greenwood's amendment)  be added. 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate offer any explanation as to the contention of the Prime Minister in a recent statement to the effect that French nuclear explosions in the Pacific were a monstrous proposition; also that China was in danger of attack, and France was not? Were these contentions used merely to cover up the strangely ambiguous attitude by which a threat was made to sever diplomatic relations with France but China, which persists in exploding nuclear bombs in proximity to the world's greatest centre of population, is treated by the Government with honour, its emissaries are received in this country and trade agreements are entered into with them? 
Can the Minister explain such a strangely contradictory attitude as that taken by this Government? 
The Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade was asked to investigate the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement and the way in which the Agreement has functioned since its inception a few years ago. As the Committee stated in the forefront of its report, public hearings were conducted in Canberra and Melbourne and evidence was taken from 37 witnesses. The Committee also considered supplementary written submissions from witnesses and many other written submissions. It was a fairly thorough inquiry but, of course, the effectiveness of it will depend, as always, on just how much notice is taken of the report. If the report is just pigeonholed and forgotten and no attempt is made to remedy the malworking of some parts of the Agreement, the Committee's inquiry will have been a waste of time and money. 
I want to say at the outset that I believe that New Zealand is probably one of the most prosperous countries in the world today. I really believe that. I do not know how much notice one can take of these IPA Facts' publications of the Institute of Public Affairs which are sent round periodically to honourable senators, but I noticed in a list contained in one of them that in respect of television, radio sets and all the rest of it, New Zealand leads Australia by a little bit. Because of its terrific stock carrying capacity, its wonderful fat lamb production, its wonderful beef producing potential and the uplift that has taken place in its dairying industry over the past 12 months or more, New Zealand is passing through one of the most prosperous eras in its history. Strange it is how things so contradict themselves. I recall that when I was in England five or six years ago some members of the then British Labor Government said in regard to the European Economic Community negotiations that something had to be done about New Zealand, that they had to do something to help New Zealand. I have heard the opinion expressed in Australia, and in this Parliament, that we should do something to help New Zealand and that New Zealand's economy was very vulnerable inasmuch as it depended so much on the export of primary products. I agree entirely. I speak as one who is a great lover of New Zealand. 
I believe that wherever it can reasonably be done the 2 countries should get together as much as possible. The question so far as Australia is concerned is: How are we to get together and who will be hurt? Rest assured that someone will be hurt. Some people already have been hurt. What are we to do about those people who are hurt as a result of free intercourse between the  2  countries? During the inquiry we were told that the imbalance of trade between this country and New Zealand was an emotional issue in Australia. I believe it is. The New Zealander very much resented the fact that there was this imbalance of trade between the 2 countries of about 3 to 1 in Australia's favour. This agreement was aimed largely at trying to bring about a reduction in that imbalance. We we&lt;-e told in the concluding stages of the inquiry that the imbalance had been reduced from 3 to 1 to 2 to 1. lt is perfectly certain that in that reduction someone in this country has suffered. Looking back over this situation of imbalance in spite of what has been said by some of the Department of Overseas Trade officials who gave evidence to the effect that the 2 economies were complementary to each other and there was no reason at all why they should not coalesce and eventually form one trading union. I never did accept that. I believed that the economies of Australia and New Zealand, unfortunate as it may be, are competitive. They are not complementary. They are competitive because both countries to date - Australia not so much now as formerly - have depended upon the export of primary produce to almost the same world markets. 
Australia has had a manufacturing potential in advance of the potential of New Zealand. Because of that fact it has suited New Zealand to purchase a substantial quantity of secondary or manufactured goods from Australia. It suited New Zealand's economy to do that. In addition to that, circumstances have made it necessary for New Zealand to purchase tropical fruit from Australia. It is a fact of nature. Australia has an adverse trading ratio of 2 to 1 with the United States of America and an adverse balance ratio of 2 to .1 with the United Kingdom. At least, that was so until the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community. On the other hand, New Zealand has a favourable trading balance with both those countries. 
The position boils down to this: No country can expect to trade around the world and break with every country with which it trades. I am one of those who has been looking askance at the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement. I believe that Tasmania has been hit harder by that Agreement and is less able to bear the economic result of it than any other State in the Commonwealth. Further, I believe that if each of 2 countries can grow a surplus of a given product and then attempts to encourage a reciprocal trade in that product one with the other, then there will be trouble and plenty of it. That is what has been wrong with the New ZealandAustralia Free Trade Agreement. I cannot get away from this thought - although it may be falacious: There are good deposits of coal at Greymouth in New Zealand and we have deposits of coal at Newcastle in New South Wales, ls there much difference between attempting to start a reciprocal coa] trade between the 2 centres and attempting to start a reciprocal trade between the 2 countries in a given primary product? What is the difference? 
 So far as the products that I have in mind are concerned, I believe that there is very little difference in quality. It is true that at the time this Agreement was first mooted and the arrangements were made for its implementation I wrote a letter to  Mr McEwen.  I told him about the terrific production capacity of New Zealand and what could happen if an attempt were made to bring about reciprocal trading in certain commodities. Those things have eventuated. Our consumption of canning peas, frozen peas or whatever you like to call them is only about 80 million lb. In the same year in which this country produced 120 million lb of canning peas the imports from New Zealand were the highest for any year since the implementation of the Agreement. We were told so often that we had nothing to fear, that there were safeguarding clauses in the Agreement which adequately protected the Australian producer or the New Zealand producer and that if any damage were done these clauses would be implemented. Nothing could convince the powers that be in Canberra - some of the gentlemen who sit up in ivory towers and who have no knowledge of the practicality of the position - that damage was being done to the Australian industry. It was perfectly obvious that, with consumption of 80 million lb a year and a production of 120 million lb a year, the bringing in of imports must damage the local industry. Surely that is elementary. 
Very little. The position was reached where after much representation to the Minister for Trade and Industry and his Department a pea panel was set up. We did not do what the New Zealanders do - just cut off the imports. That has been done by them on several occasions. We did not do that. We set up a panel. Its function was to regulate the imports of peas from New Zealand to Australia. I will say, till all is blue, that it is a most reprehensible proposition that the people who have a vested interest in exporting as many peas as possible to Australia are the people who, in the main, are the members of this panel. 
Yes. J. Wattie Canneries Ltd is one New Zealand representative on that panel. British Tobacco Co. (Australia) Ltd is one Australian representative on that panel. Both these companies are amalgamated. Unilever (Aus.) Pty Ltd is another company that is represented on the panel. If ever there was a case in which companies were dealing with and had jurisdiction over a product in which they had a positive vested interest, this was it.  I  say, without any hesitation, that in my view to allow the men who want to export as many peas or beans as possible to sit in judgment and say what that quantity should be is a thoroughly scurrilous proposition. I have said so in a minority report in regard to this matter. Add to it this evidence by a  Mr Clifford,  a member of the Victorian Farmers' Union: 
A recent development of significance has been the view taken by the Panel that in future New Zealand processor to Australian processor imports (as distinct from processor to trade imports) should be unrestricted. 
Is that not beautiful? It means that Wattie can send its peas to British Tobacco in Australia - and they are not taken into account at all in the quota of peas which may be shipped to Australia. I cannot understand that attitude of our Department of Trade and Secondary Industry. The New Zealanders without any hesitation - I do not blame them - have taken action on imports from this country if they have thought that their local industry would be affected by them. Not so our Department. A  Mr Allwright,  who has a splended reputation in the State of Tasmania, came to us in Melbourne and said: 'What are we going to do? Practically none of last season's blue pea crop has been sold. It is still in the stores of less than half a dozen merchants'. 
 The mainland - Sydney and other cities. 
 Because, as  Mr Anthony  admitted in a letter to me, of the dumping of an inferior quality New Zealand blue pea. That is the reason. The local farmers could not sell them at all. 
 Yes, they were much cheaper. I still have  Mr Anthony's  letter. It took representatives of other organisations and me 6 months to obtain that information. This Committee was so concerned in Melbourne about the position of these people - its members said: 'What are we  to  do? Are we to put in any more blue peas?' - that they commissioned me to write to  Mr Anthony  on their behalf. I was authorised to speak for the Committee and to urge  Mr Anthony  to do something about the position. What he did was to refer it to this same panel about which I have spoken. I do not know what happened and  Mr Roberts-Thomson  did not know what happened. He said that when it was referred to them, the New Zealand representatives said that they knew nothing about it; he said he did not know whether anything had been done about it. If we are : to have a trading partnership in these commodities which are produced in a sufficiency in the 2 countries, surely it is possible to appoint a panel of men, if it must be a panel, who are not themselves financially interested in the commodities and who are able to adjudicate without bias or without benefit to themselves as to how many peas shall flow from one country to another. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
 Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was talking about the Australian Pea and Bean Imports Panel. Although it has two producer representatives, the majority of the membership of the panel is composed of representatives of companies whose interests are interwoven and who adjudicate on the quantity of peas and beans to be imported into this country. One could probably search the world without finding a condition in any agreement whereby one country can say to another: 'You can have a 50 per cent membership on a panel which will adjudicate on the quantity of a given product that we will import into our country'. New Zealand does not do that; and 1 do not blame it. I give New Zealand credit for that. I think I am correct in saying that New Zealand has repeatedly, throughout the course of operation of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement, stopped certain imports from this country or imposed restrictions upon them without going to a panel and asking it to decide whether that should be done. 

 Mrs Rolfe, an economist employed by the Australian Wool and Meat Producers Federation and beyond doubt a competent witness if ever there was one, has spoken about the fact that the representatives whom the Federation sent to a consultative panel -  Mr RobertsThomson  had something similar to say about the Pea Panel - had had a condition of secrecy imposed upon them. At a Committee meeting I asked  Mrs Rolfe  the following question: 
When you say, 'He was not in a position to communicate', could you enlarge on that? 
She said: 
Well I understood,  Sir, that  conditions of secrecy had been imposed on the members of that consultative panel by the Minister. 
She also said: 
As the Federation's economist, I wanted to know what was going on there. 
Naturally she would want to know what was going on with respect to the panel. She went on to say: 
In reports to the Federation I recall our representative saying: 'I would like to report but I cannot'. Now we have some very upset delegates in the Federation, very upset. They may have called off their dogs a bit if they had known more, or they may have made a lot more noise. They did not know enough. I think it was only a process of hint and innuendo from people who were not our representatives on that panel that restored any degree of quietude, amongst our more upset delegates. 
That is what happened to a delegate from an established federation in this country who sat on a joint Australia-New Zealand panel. He was precluded from reporting to his parent body. What an awful thing that is. I do not know whether the proceedings of the Star 
Chamber were held in secret, but the operations of this panel remind me of it. There must be something wrong and I do not know what the present Government has done about it. Surely a delegate to a panel should be able to report to his parent body on its proceedings. 
 I think the Pea and Bean Panel sits about twice a year. It too is subject to a condition of secrecy, according to  Mr Roberts-Thomson  who is a most estimable man in the primary production field in Tasmania. He has said that all that has been accomplished by the importation of peas and beans into a country which already produces a sufficiency has been a dog eat dog situation. He said that the growers of this country - he quoted figures - are not receiving as much as they were receiving a few years ago, and that the growers in this country and in New Zealand have been reduced to the breadline because of this situation. Surely the work this panel does on the regulation of imports into this country from New Zealand under the auspices of the Agreement, or outside of it, should be supervised by the Department of Overseas Trade. Producing as we do a sufficiency of a God-given product, why should we have to go to the representatives of another country and say to them: 'You help us to say how many peas or beans we should import into our country'. What an awful setup it is, New Zealand has cut off our exports to it, which it is entitled to do. The Agreement gives New Zealand the right to do so and I do not blame it. But New Zealand has not come to us and said: 'If you participate with us in a panel we will see what is to be done about the matter'. I repeat that I resent utterly people having a vested interest in the importation of a product into this country sitting in adjudication over the producers whom we in this place are supposed to represent, lt is wrong. 
 Yes, some of them have a foot in each camp. One company has a processing business in New Zealand and another in Tasmania. These companies do not say publicly that they do not care very much because they have a number of alternatives, including producing in New Zealand, but they say it privately. It seems to me that some outstanding anomalies exist insofar as the operation of the Agreement is concerned. Naturally one would expect to find some; nobody would expect perfection at once or after only a few years. But it is reasonable to think that an attempt should be made to iron out some of the very glaring anomalies that exist. That is what was said by  Mr Jones,  the Executive Officer of the Carpet Manufacturers Federation of Australia. In evidence to the Committee he said: 
The statement is essentially a protest that whilst the New Zealand carpet industry has no limitation other than preference tariff duties for its large and increasing export of pile carpet to Australia - currently about 23 per cent of New Zealand production and abou: 91 per cent of New Zealand exports - the Australian carpet industry is almost completely deprived of opportunity to export carpet to New Zealand. 
He did not say that this was because of either import restrictions or excessively high tariff protection. I forget what reason was given. He went on to say - and in my opinion rightly: 
If the New Zealand Government is not prepared to remove import licensing from Schedule A goods promptly or within a stated time limit, as suggested by  Mr Back,  the goods should nol bc within Schedule A. 
I agree with him entirely. Another man who gave evidence is a jam manufacturer from Sydney who was in dire trouble due largely to the fact that at that time - I do not know what the position is now - New Zealand manufacturers bought their sugar, which comprises about 63 per cent of jam, on the world market at half the price that he had to pay. Members of the Committee will remember that this Australian jam manufacturer instanced a whole range of prices at which New Zealand jam was put in Sydney shops. These were prices with which he had no chance on earth of competing. Finally, after a lot of representation the Government, seeing the justice of his case, imposed a dumping duty of 2c per lb on imported New Zealand jam. But here was the rub: He said that even if it was economically possible for him to export jam to New Zealand he could not export one tin because the export of jam to that country is prohibited. 
I have mentioned just 2 examples. There were others. Is it any wonder that the adverse balance has climbed down from 3 to 1 to 2 to 1. Surely it is a misomer to call it a free trade agreement unless conditions in the main are reasonably free and allow a free intercourse of trade between each country. To conclude my remarks I would like to say a word or two about the butter market. Writers about the dairy industry remind me of people who look away down a tunnel and see a faint glimmer at the other end, and that is all the comprehension that they have of this industry. 
 I found- I say this with all due respect and my Committee members may not agree with me - that people in the Department of Overseas Trade had their heads in the clouds and their feet off the ground as far as the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement is concerned. They did not have any, or very little, practical comprehension of it. An article which appeared in the 'Canberra Times' had this to say: 
Two methods of bringing the 2 industries together suggest themselves. 
The author of the article wrote about including the dairy industry, or part of it, in the ANZUS Pact. The article went on to state: 
One is an agreement under NAFTA to eventually allow New Zealand butter and cheese to compete openly on the Australian market according to the spirit of the Agreement . . . 
If I wanted to kill the most decentralised primary industry in Australia, further to deplete the rural population in Australia and to build up the urban population, that is precisely what I would do. I would allow New Zealand butter to come into this country and compete on equal terms with the Australian product. I would then sit back and say: 'Well, I have given the Australian industry  a  body blow from which it will not recover.' I will tell honourable senators why this would be the result. I know New Zealand very well. One could search the earth and would not find a country that is more favourably placed by nature. New Zealand weather conditions are extremely favourable for dairy production. No other country in the world - not even Denmark or Holland - is more favourably endowed for dairy production than is New Zealand. I can think of an area of New Zealand in which anywhere within a radius of 20 miles of a factory one can pick up cream from one farm after the other and each of these farms is wholly devoted to butter production. This is what they call cow to the acre country. 
Something was said in a document that was presented in this place last week about boosting inefficient industries. The document went on immediately to say that the subsidy to the dairy industry would be gradually phased out. The inference was obvious. I have heard it said often in this place that because butter or milk or anything else from New Zealand can be sold in that country so much more cheaply than the Australian products are sold in Australia, the Australian dairy industry must be inefficient. But nothing could be further from the truth. It is a fact of nature that New Zealand is more suited to the production of dairy products. It is the same as saying that the New Zealand sheep farmer must be inefficient because he does not produce as high a grade of wool as does the Australian sheep farmer. But the reason why the Australian wool farmer can do this is again because of nature. The discrepancy in the prices of milk and butter paid by a New Zealander and by an Australian was also lue in part to the New Zealand producer being subsidised. I do not know what the amount of subsidy is now. I know of quite a number of areas in New Zealand which are engaged in dairy production. I said to the farmers: 'Do you cut any hay for the winter?' They said: No. lt is such a risk. We seldom get a long enough dry spell in order to harvest the hay, so we make ensilage instead.' Now, this happens in the summer. This gives honourable senators some idea of the bountiful summer rainfall which this country receives. 
The New Zealand High Commissioner had a positive statement in the Press about a fortnight ago - he pulled it back afterwards - about New Zealand starting to export butter to this country. This is not a dog in the manger attitude at all. This is a real concern which some of us feel at the gradual depleting and reduction of rural areas in this continent. I believe that this is a rock on which we will perish if something is not done about it. There are some serious anomalies in the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement which, I believe should be ironed out. I further believe that the Agreement has been too ill balanced, too one-sided. I think the whole of the Committee's report leans in the direction that it has been too favourable to New 
Zealand. The time is long overdue - this Government should take some notice surely - when the administration of our imports should be in the Government's own hands and not in the hands of a panel which is loaded because it has a vested interest in pulling down the barrier so far as the Australian producer is concerned. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact, as stated publicly by the honourable member for Braddon, that the procedure adopted for the phasing out of the dairying industry subsidy was contrary to the Australian Labor Party's rules inasmuch as the decision which was taken was not discussed at and decided upon by a full meeting of the Party in Canberra? Is it correct to say that because this course of action was not taken when the decision regarding the subsidy was made the decision, as has been claimed by the honourable member concerned, is not binding upon members of the Australian Labor Party? 
-Will the Minister for Primary Industry direct the attention of the Minister for Overseas Trade to the system of regulating the importation of peas and beans from New Zealand under which a majority of those regulating the quantity of these imports are themselves financially involved in the proposition- undoubtedly to their benefit- and that the Australian representatives supposed to be representing the Australian side of the proposition are, in cases, merged with the New Zealand representatives on the panel. Will the Minister point out these facts to the Minister for Overseas Trade and perhaps reach a decision in regard to them? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inquire into the build-up of cargoes to be shipped to and from Tasmania, which is due, according to some shippers, to a 'bull-headed' adherence to prearranged timetables, regardless of the amount of cargo which has been loaded. 
I rise to speak on the Budget. I would rather speak on the demonstration of ineptitude, inanity and imbecility to which we have just listened. But I have to speak on the Budget. I follow a speaker who said many things and covered a lot of ground. I do not propose to deal with what he said except to refer to one statement he made to the effect that the Government has honoured all its promises since the last election. 
I am referring to  Senator Donald  Cameron. I think that it has been demonstrated very clearly in the Senate and authenticated evidence has been produced to show that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that no school receiving assistance would have one single benefit reduced. I believe it is a fact that approximately 100 schools have suffered that fate. I do not think there is any doubt- it has been proved right up to the hilt- that promises that were made have been revoked and have not been honoured. 
I have been goaded into speaking about another matter at the outset of my remarks.  Senator Murphy  replied to a question today about Rhodesia. I am not going to say anything about the Smith regime in Rhodesia- whether it is right or wrong. But I understand that there is an organisation in Sydney which disseminates information in regard to the position in Rhodesia. Of course, when asked the question, 

 Senator Murphy had a lot to say about racism, the treatment of the black people in Rhodesia and other matters. It is strange and indicates a strange mentality that when racism is mentioned by some people, white people always have to be involved in it. It does not matter whether the white people are right or wrong. If they are involved at all it is a clear demonstration of racism. There is not a word about the fact that racism has been practised by most African states. It is a fact that one African state has a statute that precludes a white man even from being a citizen of that country. He cannot stand for Parliament in that country. This same racism has been practised in these African states almost to the extent of genocide. Not a word is said about that. But it is the peculiar attitude of mind of some people- I think that  Sir Robert  Menzies referred to this-that in some way white people must be involved before racism can be described as such. I just make those remarks on the subject. 
I now speak with much concern about the defence vote. There were many people in Parliament House last week who were very concerned by the fact that this vote had been reduced and that their jobs were in jeopardy. Of course, they have a right to be concerned. There are other people in Australia who are very concerned for the safety of this country because that vote has been reduced. In fact, I have heard it said that some people are concerned to such an extent they say that in a few years time Australia will have little more than a coast guard service to defend the shores of this comment.  Mr Kim  Beazley, the Minister for Education, referred to that. I do not know how it leaked out, but it did. He said that there is one thing on which the Labor Party always falls down; that was the subject of defence. I agree with him absolutely and completely but I go further: What concerns me is this dangerous and indiscreet advice furnished to the Government that Australia faces 15 years or more during which we are reasonably certain of peace. 
I have heard that advice discussed on television and it was referred to in this place last week. I want to quote the exact words used by one Minister. He said: 
On the one hand he criticised the Government for adopting the attitude that we have 1 S years of possible peace time. 
He went on to indicate that this was the advice tendered to the Government.  Senator DrakeBrockman  had something similar to say, in reference. He said: 

 Mr Barnard, the Minister for Defence, assures this nation that there is no foreseeable threat for IS years. I only hope for the sake of this nation that  Mr Barnard's  crystal ball gazing is much more accurate. . . . 
That kind of advice frightens me. If it was tendered by people whose job it is to advise the Government, and it was, then I say that to gamble with the security of your fellow man in that fashion borders almost on treachery. I say that for this reason: The path of history is strewn with the wrecks of countries which thought they were safe. One can think right back to the Tarentines and Pyrrhus the Greek, 2,000 years ago. They thought they were safe and when they got into trouble they sent for Pyrrhus to come and help them out. But we have kicked our Pyrrhus in the face. We have insulted him on numerous occasions. This matter has been well summed up by my local newspaper which stated: 
Prime Minister Gough Whitlam is home again after his first really big meeting with the world. What has he achieved? A lot of his former ardent supporters must be feeling something of a sense of disappointment, for his one outstanding achievement seems to be that he has succeeded only in isolating Australia to a new and dangerous degree. Apart from the goodwill created, his visit to Mexico seemed to be more of a personal archaeological adventure than anything else. 
But it was something else. He went to Mexico and it was in Mexico that he announced that he would discuss with his Ambassador friend in Paris the prospect of breaking off diplomatic relations with the French people. 
When I read that I thought that for a Minister for Foreign Affairs to go to a foreign country and announce there that he was going to discuss the possibility of breaking off relations with another country surely was an amazingly indiscreet thing to do. This article went on to state: 
It was when he reached Washington that he began to show rather more promise: He needed to, of course, because he was starting with the handicap of strained relations caused by his senior ministers ' criticisms of American activities in Indo-China at the beginning of the year and his own somewhat truculent attitude towards the United States. Report had it that his talks with  President  Nixon were 'cordial and frank' and certainly they appeared to have met and parted on reasonably good terms. But it must now be wondered if, indeed, the relationship has not been dumped right back into the melting-pot by  Mr Whitlam.  From Washington he moved on to Ottawa for the Commonwealth heads of government conference: there, in conference session, he made some new friends like Tanzania and Jamaica by supporting their views . . . , but out of conference session returned to the attack on America.  His  criticism of the Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon Administrations was so sweeping that it must surely have caused a good deal of antiAustralian feeling throughout the United States. 
Well as one man put it, if he had had time he would have gone right back to the time of George Washington and given them all a touch up. That appears to be the discretion of the man who holds the portfolio in which discretion is so important. He went about the world dropping bricks and berating our former allies, particularly one which saved us in the past, but kowtowing to the Chinese. However, he is not alone in that. The other night I heard the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, on television and I nearly fell off my chair. I am not exaggerating when I say that. He said, in the mien of a man who is uncovering some awful sacrilege, that the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Snedden,  had poured sand into the diplomatic relations that exist between this country and China. He went on to say that the Chinese leaders had told him so and that they were very offended by some of the things  Mr Snedden  had said about them. Thus spoke the man who had said insulting things about the  President  of the United States, the only ally fit and able, or which would have been fit and able, to come and help us in time of extremity.  Mr President,  when I see these things happen I speculate on what I would do. I would have such people psycho-analysed and treated because I believe they deserve it. 
Yes. Our defences have been reduced. They are being whittled away. We make no attempt whatever to make friends with those people with whom we could join for the purpose of protecting this country. This is a most remarkable attitude of mind. What makes it all the more serious is the fact that it is not just the fate of this Government which is at stake but it is the fate of every Australian whose security is being placed in jeopardy by the continuous and repeated indiscretions of the Government. Not long ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  joined issue with the United Kingdom over multi-national corporations. From what I could deduce from the statement Britain was doing something sinister and underhand in regard to those corporations. I could not make head or tail of the Prime Minister's remarks. But I noticed last night, or some recent night  Mr Jenkins,  who is a socialist, was asked what he thought about multi-national corporations. He said: 'You must have them '. I believe that we must have them. If we ever reach the position in the world where the capital to develop any country must be raised in that country then a mighty lot of the world will not be developed, a mighty lot of Australia would not be developed as it is now, that much is certain. We have reached the stage where we need all the capital we can get hold of if we are to go on and develop this country as it should be developed. 
That is a very different thing altogether. That has nothing to do with the general set-up of the multi-national corporations. I completely agree with everything that was said by  Senator Wright  in regard to the position in which the primary producer is placed. At the present time I believe that the statements which he made and that the figures which he quoted simply cannot be refuted. If one reads through this Budget - 
-It irritated me. The honourable senator is a primary producer, or they tell me that he is. He should not go along with this Budget.  Senator Wright  had something to say about the dairying industry. The Government took the proposition for the industry right out of the McCarthy report on the dairying industry. I remember that report and it has remained in my mind ever since it was presented. It is correct- or it was then- that New Zealand exports 80 per cent of its dairy production and that Australia exports only 40 per cent of hers. Yet the price of butter and milk in New Zealand was so much cheaper than it was in Australia. Because of this it was said that the Australian dairy industry must be inefficient. That is the thesis which the Government had adopted from the beginning. It was on that basis that the Government very largely built its case. In this same Budget speech the Treasurer stated: 
But to achieve this objective - 
That is to have sound and healthy industries in Australia- it is essential that industry be competitive and responsible to the challenge of economic change, and that such assistance as the Government does provide facilitates desirable change and does not impede it by propping up uneconomic and contracting industries. Against this background we have carefully examined the arrangements for assistance to industry which we inherited from the previous Government. 
After having said that the first thing the Treasurer has on his list is to cut out the subsidy for the dairying industry. Of course the inference is that the dairying industry is unsatisfactory and inefficient. I have dealt in this place with that aspect of dairying in this country before and what I have said bears repeating. I say that there is no comparison whatever between dairy production in Australia and in New Zealand. It is a fact of nature. The climatic conditions and everything else differ so much. Because we cannot be as productive in dairying as New Zealand is, honourable senators opposite say thai this reflects an unsatisfactory and inefficient condition in our dairying industry. This is something that is so completely wrong to anyone who knows both countries- and I claim that I dothat it is laughable. Yet the Government goes on and says that this most decentralised primary industry in Australia has been propped up too much.  Senator Wright  dealt most effectively with that suggestion. He quoted figures indicating the way in which secondary industry- the mining industry and other industries- had been propped up by tariffs- which means subsidisation from the pockets of the people who purchase the goods- or by direct grants. Secondary industries have been propped up, helped, assisted and aided by the people and the Government of this country. By comparison the subsidisation of primary industry is only a fleabite. Yet it is all to go. I have the list there from A to Z. Most of the props which were handed out to primary industry over the years by the previous Government are going. I say to the Government: Do not forget that the phase through which primary industry is passing today can rapidly change. There is not an industry in the world which fluctuates as much as primary industry. I suggest that the dairy farmers, especially those in electorates which have elected Australian Labor Party members, should sit up and take notice. A Press report in the 'Advocate ' states: 

 Senator Wriedt said the subsidy had not helped the dairy industry 'one iota'. It might have helped many people renew their cars every 1 2 months instead of every 2 years, but that was all. 
Do honourable senators know what I would like to do with a man who made that kind of statement? I would like to put him on a bit of really good old mother earth to follow a herd of cows for 12 months, and then see whether he would still say that. I guarantee that he would not say it again. 
I milked cows in the cow shed long after I became a member of Parliament. I did it for 25 years at least, and I never missed a milking. At one time I was the only serving member of Parliament who was still working in the cow shed except when Parliament was sitting. So I am not talking a lot of theory. I am not a person who sits back and works things out and says that things should be like this, that or the other. I am speaking from experience. The newspaper article continues: 
He said products should not be subsidised if they could not be sold at an economic price. 
I do not think that remark needs any comment. 
-I should think he would. I refer again to an article in my own local newspaper. The Government proposes to tax the export of meat. Previously there was a proposition to ask the Australian Meat Board to draw up proposals to reduce domestic meat prices. This newpaper says- in my view, rightly- that it is like asking the Australian Council of Trade Unions to make plans for cutting wages. The article continues: 
The Government cannot arbitrarily lower meat prices, nor should it expect a long-depressed primary industry to bear the burden of countering the inflation which others (and not least the Commonwealth and State governments) have caused. 
It is a newspaper which I think would help the honourable senator if he read it. If the honourable sentor did so, he probably would end up having a better grasp of this situation. I would like to speak about inflation, but that will be a matter for discussion as a sequel to the jargon we heard in this chamber earlier this evening. 
From  Senator Murphy.  It was just jargon. I have here a statement made by another man who appeals to me. He got into trouble for making it, but he appeals to me mightily.  His  name is Moore. 
-No, he is the head of the Chrysler motor company in Australia. He criticised the Government for trying to reduce the number of cars in Australia in favour of a  Utopian  public transport system, for trying to dominate completely the medical profession, for keeping the oil and gas industry parochialheaven's above, there is no doubt that it is parochial in the Australian Capital Territory today- and for stifling the expansion of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd.  Mr Moore  claims that the Government is hitting industry from all sides with a discriminating Prices Justification Tribunal, an economically wrong tariff cut and policies which could regulate the mining industry into bankruptcy. I agree entirely with those remarks. I cannot help regarding one of the Ministers as a complete ignoramus in respect of the things he administers. He is going to Japan with 2 other Ministers to show the Japanese how to make a deal. 

 - Mr Connor- the man who calls the people who have built up the mining industry in Australia hillbillies and all the rest of it. Another newspaper article which I have here says that by his indiscreet utterances he has done a mighty lot of harm to the mining market and the other markets Australia has in Japan. But he is going to Japan with the Prime Minister and other Ministers to show the Japanese how to make these deals. 
The Minister said something about iron ore prices, but someone else said something about them too. Writing in the 'Bulletin', a man called David McNicoll was highly critical of the attitude taken by  Mr Connor  with regard to mineral disposal, mineral marketing and so forth. He wrote: 
The mining industry boys are sick of Minerals Minister Connor's jibes and hindsight, wisdom . . . 
Connor has made the Japanese wary of the government, and has possibly put at risk a lot of future business between Australia and Japan. 
I find it hard to credit that this bulldozing and insensitive Minister doesn't realise this- and that he has the gall to continue his abuse of Australian businessmen. 
He could finish up as one of Whitlam 's major embarrassments. 
David McNicoll. 

 - Mr Connor- the man who said that the pioneers of mineral development in Australia were a lot of hillbillies. I think he said something else about them. He has adopted a completely arrogant and dominating attitude in regard to them. Now he proposes to go to Japan with two or three other people and to show the miners and other how to market their products in Japan. They are going there to make the deals. 
I will not say anything about inflation. A debate on that matter will come at a later stage. We have heard some extraordinary statements made about inflation. It has been said that is the product of the policies of the previous Government. That is one of the comments we have heard, but it is not worth answering. If Australia were to have another 23 years of progress and development similar to that of the last 23 years, even despite the faults- we all have faults- the population would double again, the development of potential would more than double and, what is more important, we could be reasonably certain that we in this country could go on with a reasonable sense of security that we  would  continue to be here to develop it. Instead, the position at the moment is that we have men in responsible positions going around insulting those people with whom we should be friends and cringing to those people who want to be friends with us. I know that these people want to be friendly with us; but their method of being friendly with us is that they manoeuvre themselves into a position where they can gobble us up completely. The Minister for Foreign Affairs some time ago made a speech in which he referred to Taiwan as a province of China. I went to the trouble to look up the history of Taiwan and do you know what I found? It was under the jurisdiction of the Japanese for many years and it was under the jurisdiction of the Chinese for many years. It had 2 considerable periods of independence. Now it is under the jurisdiction of Chiang Kai-shek. When one looks at that record it is difficult to believe that anyone could think that Taiwan is naturally a province of China. The only way in which this could happen would be for the Chinese to take it over by force of arms, which proposition I understand this Government, without doubt, would accept. 
I support the amendment moved by  Senator Withers.  I believe that this Budget is something which will be paid for by an increase in the rate of inflation. I am one of those people who believe that the tiddling methods- that is all they areadopted by the Government to try to curb the effects that result from a large section of the community doing its utmost to break down the economy by unreasonable and impossible demands will fail. The Government is just fiddling and temporising- whether it be by revaluation or some other means- but sooner or later the basic root cause of the whole of our economic troubles will gain sway, and eventually will have to realise that that basic cause has to be tackled. 
-I agree with what has been said by  Senator Wood,  that inflation is probably the most insidious robber one can imagine. The most pathetic thing about inflation is that it robs the small man of his savings and income. Over the years when the Liberal Party was in Government we sat here week after week and listened to stories about inflation until one was almost led to believe that it was a Liberal-Country Party phenomenon, that it was something which we aggravated and caused. But there was a change of government and an argument has evolved that our inflation was worse than the inflation caused by the present Government. We heard that in this chamber this afternoon. I have the report and financial statements of the Reserve Bank of Australia for 30 June 1973. I should think that this is a thoroughly impartial document. It states: 
In the second half of 1972-73 - 
That is for the 6 months which has not long ended - however, the rate of growth of prices quickened markedly; the rise over the 12 months to June 1973 was somewhat greater than that over the previous year and the largest for any financial year since 1951-32. 
That was about 18 months after the LiberalCountry Party Government came to office. The position of the last year has been aggravated by the past 6 months through which we have just passed. It has not been wholly accounted for by the increases in food prices which were mentioned by  Senator Brown.  It has been the worst inflationary year since 195 1-52. The other argument which we have heard in this chamber both today and yesterday is that inflation is a worldwide phenomenon to which all countries are subject. That argument somehow reminds me of a sick man going to hospital. He takes a look around and thinks to himself: 'I must be all right because everyone else here is sick.' In fact that does not make any difference to the condition in which he finds himself. I have come to the conclusion that this Government and in particular the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  simply do not understand the position with which this country is confronted. The Government has put out a publication entitled 'New Legislation of the Australian Parliament'. I do not know whether it would be a fair thing for the Opposition also to put out a countermanding publication at the expense of the taxpayers. This publication contains an article by  Mr Crean.  I am certain that it negates the opinion of any worthwhile economist that I have ever heard express an opinion about inflation. In big type appear the words: 
We aim to attack rising prices. 

 Mr Crean stated: 
In a buoyant and strongly growing economy, with inflationary pressures intense, we are limited by the overriding need to bring down a Budget which does not add to these pressures. 
I do not suggest that we can aim, through the Budget, to do the whole job of curbing inflation. Rather, we aim to attack rising prices by a series of inter-related measures. 
After detailing the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal and saying a lot of other things the Treasurer stated: 
The Budget too must fit into the overall anti-inflationary policy. 
I ask anyone who has thought about this whether it fits in to the pattern of an anti-inflationary policy. But the Treasurer went on: 
With that in mind the Government came to 2 major conclusions. First, despite competing demands for resources, the whole thesis of the Government's policies requires that there be some increase in the share of resources going to the public sector. 
The share of resources which is going to the public sector has increased by more than 20 per cent and is definitely and positively inflationary. This afternoon we have heard State governments and local government authorities blamed for this increase but I feel perfectly certain that any economist would say that this terrific increase in Government expenditure brought about by this Budget has definitely and positively been caused by the inflationary tendencies which it contains. If we add to that the high rate of interest which will accrue as a result of action taken recently by the Commonwealth Government then the position will be aggravated still further. It was only a few days after  Mr Crean  said this that the 'Australian' newspaper, which for some strange reason that I can never account for advocated the cause of the Labor Party prior to the last election, had this to say: 
Now it's time to pay Labor's bill. 
I shall read 2 quotations from the article. It states: 
The Government decided to go ahead with the program and budgeted to increase spending by practically 20 per cent. 
The newspaper says that that is inflationary.  Mr Crean  says that he fits his Budget into an antiinflationary policy. Up to that time it was obvious that the Government was taking a calculated risk on inflation. The newspaper pointed out: 
The calculation has now come to a reckoning sooner than many people, including possibly the Government, might have expected. 
The article concluded by stating: 
The next 9 months must be the most crucial of  Mr Whitlam  's career. As the credit squeeze gathers way the Opposition must be more and more determined to force him into a double dissolution and the chances of the Government returning to office after it must diminish. 
The actions taken to date by this Government to combat inflation- revaluation of the currency, the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal, and the across the board reduction in tariffshave had a nil effect. More definite and more positive action needs to be taken than the trifling pettifogging actions such as the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the revaluation of the currency. These actions cannot have any positive quick result on inflation. Although I am not in favour of the proposal to implement a prices and wages freeze, we read that the New Zealand Government with which this Government claims to have great affinity- it is a Labor Government with the difference that  Mr Kirk  stands on his own feet, is his own man, does what he thinks fit and is not dictated to or told what to do by anyone else- states that strikes and excessive wage demands are the reason for the New Zealand wages-prices freeze. This was reported in an article in the Hobart 'Mercury'. The article continued: 
The number of stoppages and the loss of man hours in New Zealand in the first 6 months of this year exceeded the totals for the 12 months of 1972. The parallels with the situation in Australia since Labor gained office are startling. 
They are the reasons given by the New Zealand Labor Prime Minister for instituting a wagesprices freeze. We are on the verge of debating a measure which an honourable senator described this afternoon as the tool to be placed in the hands of the Government to enable it to combat inflation. I think the honourable senator who made that statement is a super-optimist. The strange thing about the whole proposition is that  Mr Whitlam  says that he will implement neither policy. He has said that publicly. He said that such things are done only in totalitarian societies but in a democracy, where people do pretty much as they please, such a thing is right out of court altogether. Yet  Mr Kirk  has been forced to take this action because of excessive wage demands and industrial chaos. That situation bears a strange resemblance to what is happening in this country. 
I do not know why it is, but immediately the Labor Government assumed office the number of man hours lost because of industrial stoppages jumped. This certainly has been very much a contributing cause of inflation. I do not know whether the number of man hours lost jumped because those people responsible for this situation knew perfectly well that penalties would not be enforced. Yet  Mr Whitlam  has told them- I have a copy of his statement- that while the Conciliation and Arbitration Act remains on the statute book and while the Labor Government is responsible for enforcing those laws, they will not be enforced. That is what he has said. So he proposes, as it were, to try to control the whole  Situation  without any regard whatever to the components which together create the situation. They can go where they like and do what they like. 
I took note of the statement made by  Senator Little  that even if a vote were taken today the Government could not obtain the required 31 votes. I was intrigued by reports and by  Senator Little's  statement that there were members of the Labor Caucus who advocated a prices and incomes policy. Yet those members of Caucus who advocated that incomes should be included in the referendum proposals have not spoken in the Senate this afternoon advocating the inclusion of what is to some people that very necessary word incomes'. Surely this represents regimentation of opinion in extremis. It is reasonable to expect that in regard to such an important matter as the changing of the Australian Constitution there should be a free and unfettered discussion in the Senate on the subject. 
I could not help but notice a peculiarity in the debate this morning in regard to the Labor Party's approach to changes in the Australian Constitution. It is that speed is the very essence of the proposition- that discussion must be scouted as much as possible. I cast my mind back to 1 944 and to what was known then as the 'Powers Bill '. It was proposed that the Australian Constitution be changed by acts of all the State parliaments. It would be done by a reference of power under 14 heads. Billy Hughes said: 'If there is anything left outside of these 14 points give it a name'. The Labor Government in my State of Tasmania adopted the same attitude as the Labor Party all over the Commonwealth. In spite of the fact that the proposals were so far reaching- in fact, they swept away the Constitution- the Labor Government laid down that those measures had to be carried before the members of Parliament returned home at the end of the week. Standing Orders had to be suspended and it had to be agreed that power would be referred to the Commonwealth Parliament in that way. 
I could not help but think this morning that all possible speed has been engendered in regard to this proposal, so much so that anyone who dared to speak to it was accused of engaging in a filibuster. We heard that word used this morning. It seems to me to be a disgraceful concept to be adopted in regard to an important change in the Constitution. It is an important change, although I do not think anyone knows very much about how far it goes or how embracing it is. The legislation has been introduced. We have been told: 
There is the word "prices". We want the principle adopted at once. There must be no delay and no discussion in regard to it'. It is a strange concept for a major, governing political party in the Commonwealth to take up. 
Of course, I have been informed that this is the position: If the Bill is passed today- it cannot be- the earliest date on which the referendum could go to the people would be 20 November. If it is not passed until the first sitting day of next week- that is 25 September- the earliest the referendum could be held would be 25 November. Of course, the first Saturday after that is 1 December. Therefore, the only delay that is involved by waiting until next week to take a vote on this Bill, if it were to be carried, would be a delay of less than one week. I cannot see where the vital urgency is in regard to this matter which concerns the Constitution of the people, something that many people in this country still regard as sacred, to be treated in this cavalier fashion and for discussion to be denied. I took particular interest in what was said by  Senator Maunsell  about the beef industry. It is notorious that when a Government attempts to interfere unnecessarily with industry- a socialist government simply cannot help doing this; it must tinker with industry- it retards production and nearly always makes things very much worse than they were. 
I was a member of the Tasmanian Parliament during the time price control was operated by the States. That was after the time the late  Mr Chifley  put a referendum to the people asking that price control be permanently reposed in the Commonwealth Parliament. Price control then was motivated by a shortage of goods due to the war through which we had just passed. A shortage of goods is not the trouble today; the troubble is due to a very different reason. However at that time we were in trouble because there was a shortage of goods throughout the Commonwealth and demand was very much greater than supply.  Mr Chifley  had been exercising price control under his wartime powers and before those powers had lapsed he brought down a referendum aimed at reposing price control powers within the ambit of the Commonwealth government for all time. The people turned it down because they were sick and tired of the continuous frustration, the black market, and every other problem brought about by wartime price controls. The States took up the leeway and operated price control. I have a file at home full of correspondence from nearly every organisation in Tasmania complaining about the torment through which they were passing because of price control. They were all in trouble. 
I well remember that  Mr H.  S. Baker, a most estimable man in Tasmanian politics, was  chairman  of a committee that inquired into price control. I have never forgotten 3 things he said in his report. He said price control eliminated competition, which is obvious. Because people got the same price there could be no competition. The price was fixed and therefore it eliminated competition. He said that in a lot of cases it reduced the quality of the article. Of course that must be so. People could not charge more than the prices commissioner set so they made up the leeway by reducing the quality of the article. The third thing  Mr Baker  said was that price control created a black market. That is just about the story. Those are the things it does. 
I turn now to the case referred to by  Senator Maunsell.  In common with other members in this place, I suppose, I received a letter from the Australian Cattle Council which read: 
For the first time in many years the Australian beef cattle industry is in a state of total confusion and uncertainty as a result of recent Government actions and current suggestions of export taxes, export quotas or selective embargoes. Political opposition to those suggestions is greater in rural areas than for any other major rural issue in recent years. This memorandum has been forwarded to every Federal Parliamentarian in the hope that the arguments advanced will be seen for what they are- a rational and responsible consideration of a complex and controversial problem. 
The Council went on to list a number of disabilities brought about by Government interference. 
It said: 
. the Government has: 
Eliminated taxation allowances which in aggregate have encouraged productive investment in the industry. 
Increased interest rates - 
We have heard a bit about that question over the past few days- which will raise the cost of new and existing investment projects, making them less attractive and again lessening the incentive for expanded beef production. 
Abolished export incentives, which will result in increased abattoir costs and total costs of meat production. 
Revalued the Australian dollar, equivalent to a meat export tax of 5 per cent and a cost to the beef industry of the order of $30m. 
Those are some of the things that happen when Governments pledged to socialisation of industry start tampering with the industries of this country. The proposal before us is to have a referendum on price control, and only on price control. But with price control you simply control the resultant addition of many different factorsor you try to. After all the ingredients have been added up, after all the costs of producing an article have been focussed, you attempt to control the result. The proposition is completely and absolutely absurd. It is perfectly obvious that if you try to do that and let wages and conditions of employment run riot, all you do is provide a means of indexing price rises. That is all that was achieved previously. Nothing else was achieved. 
The idea of holding a referendum got off to a very bad start. If one can take notice of newspaper reports, both the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  said that wage and price freezes had been tried in other countries and had not worked. They said that at a conference held at Terrigal. The Prime Minister was quoted as having said: 
In anything short of a totalitarian society, governments are restrained in their ability to adjust wages and prices as they please. 
In this statement the Prime Minister seems to be completely adverse to both wage and price control. 
I do not have the date but it was during the past few weeks that he said that. The newspaper is the Tasmanian 'Examiner'. Now the Prime Minister comes to light with a proposal that this same prices power be vested in his Government, after disclaiming any intention at all of trying to acquire such power. It looks as though there is a lot of truth in the suggestion that the Prime Minister was logrolled by Caucus. I believe it is a fact that in reply to questions which were asked of him in another place only yesterday he would not come down on the proposition that he would operate an incomes policy even if he had the power to do so. We can go back a bit further in relation to this proposal which is before us. Let us examine the proposition that was agreed to at Surfers Paradise when the Australian Labor Party's Federal Conference was held there. It was incorporated in the Party's platform and, as such, in binding on the 3 State Labor governments in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. A newspaper report stated: 
The conference move is certain to lead to increased tension between the Federal Government and the other 3 non-Labor States in particular-Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria. 
This reference of power if decided on by the Federal ALP Conference is binding on all State Labor Governments, and in fact, on all Labour members. That means that if the Federal Labor 
Government, through the ALP Conference, decides that a certain power shall be referred by State governments to the Commonwealth Parliament, if they are State Labor governments that referral must be made. What a way to alter the Australian Constitution. These are the very people who in this place have prattled incessantly over the past few weeks about one vote one value. Yet here we have a partisan conferencewe could not get a more partisan body in the Commonwealth of Australia- setting itself up as a means by which the Australian Constitution shall be altered without regard whatever to the big percentage of the Australian population which has nothing to do with the ALP Conference. One cannot stand up and justify a proposition like that. 
Price control as we knew it, as it operated after the last war, was brought about by a shortage of goods. Too much money was chasing too few goods. Those conditions today have gone by the board. I believe that a lot of our trouble which has not been mentioned in this place for sometime is brought about by complete and absolute industrial chaos. I have an article here headed: NZ Shows Way '. It states that  Mr Kirk  said that because of the unsatisfactory labour conditions, because of the strikes and holdups, he had decided to bring in a wage and price freeze. As I said here yesterday, the strange thing is that with the advent of a Labor Government in New Zealand industrial chaos increased, and with the advent of a Labor Government in this country it jumped here. It has been encouraged surely by our Prime Minister who stated that without a Senate majority his Government would not be able to repeal the current Act amendments, although he expressed the opinion that administratively it could do a great deal. He said that without the Attorney-General no prosecutions could take place and stated that there would be no prosecutions. 
I believe that until we have industrial law and a government in office in this place which will enforce that law we will still have industrial chaos. I call to mind that the Liberal-Country Party Government took some teeth out of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Act. That showed a certain weakness- or I think it did. I might say in passing that I heard the expresident of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission- I think he has resigned- say that the penal clauses in the Conciliation and Arbitration Act were worth nothing because they did not prevent industrial stoppages and all the rest of it. But I have here a statement from a man who is on the other end, that is the receiving end. That man's name in Mundey. It was after the Liberal-Country Party Government repealed some of the penal clauses in the Act that he is reported to have said this: 
The CPA line of industrial activity is clear in the 'Left Review ' published interview with  Mr Mundey. 
That is the Communist Party line of industrial activity. The report continues: 
Having restated the warning issued to employers during the strike against the use of 'scab' labour, he says that arising from this, private property was smashed where arrogant employers ignored the democratic decision of mass meetings. 
It was this destruction which struck fear to the very hearts of the employing class. ' 
It is only a few weeks ago that I heard this same Mundey say- and so did others- that one thing that has to be done is that the employing class has to be confronted by strikes and all the rest of it. He said that only in that way could it be destroyed. They are the words of a man with great influence. He is the secretary of one of the biggest unions in Australia. While those conditions pertain, how on earth is it possible to prevent prices from rising? Surely it is reasonable to think that when those kinds of conditions apply in industry prices must rise for the obvious reason that somebody has to pay for these things.  Mr Mundey  is reported also to have said: 
If a relatively small union could successfully mount such an attack, what would be achieved by the more powerful unions with more resources if they acted in a similar way? 
The article continued: 
Predicting longer strikes and total stoppages,  Mr Mundey  says that tactics in strikes, particularly since 1949, have been so tailored as to give a high priority to the penal powers threat and thus the need to 'get them back to work' to avoid fines. 
That is what  Mr Mundey  said. So the imposition of fines must have had some effect, even though the Liberal Government did not have the guts to collect the fines thoroughly and completely and to enforce the provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act.  Mr Mundey  is reported to have said further: 
The general idea among officials was to try to win strikes quickly. - 
This is because of the fines that could be imposed upon them under the Arbitration Act - and, failing that, to beat a retreat and make the best of it. 
-It has a lot to do with the Bill because it is one of the big factors in rising prices. We are not suffering from a condition of too much money chasing too few goods. We are suffering in the main from a wage-push inflation. That is what is happening.  Mr Mundey  is reported to have said further: 
With the removal of some of the teeth from the penal powers in May 1969, longer strikes including general strikes are likely to become the order of the day. 
In my opinion, that statement is proof positive that the penal provisions of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act, in spite of the agitation to have them removed, were an impediment to industrial chaos. I say without any hesitation that in most countries there is a coterie of men whose aim or objective is to seize control of the trade unions. It happened in Britain. It happened in New Zealand, but the New Zealand Government was able to cope with the situation. On more than one occasion the New Zealand Government has said to communist controlled unions in New Zealand: Unless you get rid of so-and-so we will deregister your union and we will freeze your funds'. And the New Zealand Government did just that. It was able to clean out these people whose objective was not to confer some benefit on their members but to go to war with what they called the employing class or the capitalistic system. Their aim was to break it down and smash it in order to make it easier for their 'ism' which in my view is a living death, to be brought into existence. The position we have reached was spoken about in the 'Economist', which is an English newspaper. The editorial in its 24 February issue suggests that, if the wave of strikes in Britain in pursuit of huge increases in wages and salaries continues. Britain will have proved to be ingovernable under its present democratic system. That is exactly right. The editorial continues: 
Amid a Latin American rate of inflation and increasingly unacceptable industrial disruption over the whole country . . . Britain would be bound to move towards a more extremist government of either right or left. 
I believe that that is the position with which this country is confronted. It is one of the biggest factors in the inflationary spiral we have been experiencing. Back in 1956 'Canberra Comments' was still being published, and the words written in an article in that publication at that time are as true today as they were then. 
-Well, I think they were and I think any man who had any common sense would accept and realise the complete truth of these words. In dealing with price control the article stated: 
This 'solution' to inflation which seems so easy is really no solution at all. Everyone would like an easy way out but there is none. An increase in output and higher individual productivity are possible only through hard work, sustained effort, and efficient management. An increase in output- more goods- is the way to beat inflation. Since import restrictions severely limit the supply of consumer goods from abroad, the principal increase in the volume of available goods must therefore take place within Australia itself. 
The cure of inflation lies in the hands of all Australian producers - 
That includes both managers and trade unionists- 
Government price control may at best alleviate only a few of the symptoms, and this only temporarily; it would prevent, not promote, a cure. 
I believe that those words are completely and absolutely true. Speaking of all sections of the community and not blaming just one section of the community, I suggest that we can never get away from that old fashioned idea of good, hard, honest toil. I believe that a lack of it is what we are suffering from. That is why prices are being pushed up. Until there is a realisation that an increase in incomes has to be accompanied by an increase in productivity and that any increase in income over and above the increase in productivity is purely and simply inflationary, we will only be in trouble. 
Britain, only a couple of years ago, found itself in an awful mess- a mess which closed down the Clyde shipbuilding works because no one could be sure when a ship would be delivered. This same disease practically ruined the British motor industry which found itself in the position in which the Ford Motor Company in Melbourne found itself a few weeks ago. While there are those conditions, while there is that kind of industrial chaos, surely it is elementary that there must be rising prices and inflationary conditions, and the whole community must suffer because of it. Surely that is obvious to anybody; it is not a matter of argument at all. 
The rate of inflation under my Government was about half of what it is now. My Government kept the rate of inflation steady. It could have kept it steadier if it had not been so weak. But when the Opposition goes back into government, as it will - 
-Soon, and I will tell  Senator McLaren  why.  His  Government has trodden underfoot the susceptibilities of too many people to remain in office for long. You cannot attain government and go to war with as many of the people as this Government has done. You cannot attain government and create divisions, as this Government has done, and expect the people to roll up and vote for you. Wherever I go the story is the same. People say: 'This goddam awful 
Government, what are we going to do about it'? That is true. There is one activity from which a socialist cannot abstain: He must tinker with industry, He cannot help himself. What I am about to quote was said when we were in office, and it buttresses what I have been saying about the industrial condition in Australia. This report states: 

 Mr Crean 

At that time he was the Labor spokesman on Treasury matters- said that delay in the national wage case had helped to improve the March figures. Wage rises put up costs and higher costs put up prices'. 
That is obvious and simple. That is what he said when he was in Opposition. Surely it must be apparent to anybody that that is true, and that is what I have been saying. Exorbitant and unreasonable demands for wage increases are being engineered and activated by people whose main object in life is to break down the Australian way of life, the Australian economic system and to bring in some form of socialism; it is not so much to confer a benefit on the working man. The aim of the Communist Party has been to get control of the trade unions. I conclude by saying - 
It was from a leading article in the Launceston 'Examiner', which is not a bad newspaper. I would like the honourable senator to read it. What I was going to say when  Senator McLaren  interrupted me was that there is this great fetish to interfere with industry. Some people have said that the Government has gone to war with industry, especially the mining industry and similar industries. Can anyone imagine what a man like the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  would do if price control were in his hands? 

 -Or Mr Connor. Would not those 2 Ministers have a wonderful time? They would not use the power to help industry or the economy, not a bit; they would use it to torment and override the industrial people on whom we depend almost absolutely for our own prosperity. Yesterday  Senator Marriott  referred to the imposition of an extra 5c a gallon excise on petrol, but  Mr Enderby,  through his Prices Commissioner in the Australian Capital Territory, said that the oil suppliers were not to pass on the increase. Mind you, the Government could do it, but the unfortunate oil suppliers in the Australian Capital Territory could not pass it on. The oil suppliers passed on the increase all over the Commonwealth, but in this one secluded spot where the Commonwealth Government has complete and absolute power, they were not allowed to pass it on and, as far as I am aware, they have not passed it on yet. 
-Yes, it is a tax. The oil suppliers in the A.C.T. have not been able to recoup themselves. They have had to charge the same price and still pay the extra tax. The thought has struck me that if these much abused oil companies- and they have been abused throughout the years- were activated with the same sentiments as some of the militant trade unions are, they would have said without any hesitation: 'Right, your whole supply is stopped '. That is what the Transport Workers Union has said on many occasions. If the oil companies had been as bad as honourable senators opposite imply that they are, that is one thing that they would have said. They would have said: 'Right, no more oil. If that is what you are going to do we will stop your supply. ' It is a wonder that they did not do that, and I do not think that anyone could have complained if they had done it. 
I take pleasure in supporting the stand that was taken by my leader,  Senator Withers.  I think that this is a vain, foolish, empty and ridiculous proposition. I do not think that the Australian people should be divided; that they should be put to the humbug and worry of a referendum on such a frivolous thing as the control of prices. 
This same question was put to the people once before and they overwhelmingly kicked it out. Housewives are not as dumb as the honourable senator thinks they are. They think about these matters and they know what is causing this continuous upsurge in prices. This proposition has got off to a bad start. No one knows where the Government stands in regard to it from day to day. There are reports that  Mr Whitlam  was log rolled into having this referendum. A week or so ago he said that he would not operate it, but of course he changes his mind overnight. 
I am glad to vote against the proposition. I will vote against the Bill. I do not think that it would be a very much better proposition to include income control- to put the economy in such a straitjacket as to control prices and also incomes. The way out is the old-fashioned way I spoke about a little while ago. If people did a little bit of hard honest work instead of participating in continuous industrial strife and unrest, prices would regulate themselves without the need for this awful proposition. Can you imagine giving power to a socialist Government to control aif monetary transactions throughout the Commonwealth if it should wish to do so. Just imagine the vast army of bureaucrats that would be necessary to carry out such a scheme. What a frightening proposition that is. It is no wonder that 25 years ago the Australian people, having experienced these conditions, overwhelmingly rejected such a proposition. 
Because I was in New Zealand during part of the time when the tests were taking place in the western Pacific and I saw something of the reaction in New Zealand to the French tests in the Western Pacific, I would like to speak very briefly on the subject that was raised by  Senator Sim.  Before doing that I comment on the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  referred to just now by  Senator Carrick,  in which he said that the French were safe from attack and because of that fact their tests were monstrous. I very much question whether the French would have much faith in the statement of our Prime Minister that they were safe from attack, if they have regard to what happened to Czechoslovakia a few hundred miles from their border only a year or two ago. However, he said that. He also said, as  Senator Carrick  pointed out, that the Chinese were not safe from attack. He justified their conducting of nuclear tests on that ground. The Prime Minister said further that, anyhow, the Chinese took most of the fallout from their own testing. I do not think that the Japanese would find much comfort in that statement. I do not think that the Chinese, if they could put their views on the conduct of their affairs, would find much comfort either. According to the report that was furnished to our Prime Minister by the Australian Academy of Science, while deposit of the shorter-lived isotopes will come only from the southern hemisphere testing the longer-lived isotopes will also be deposited on Australia from tests conducted in the northern hemisphere. Apparently the fallout from the Chinese nuclear explosions in the northern hemisphere, in proximity to approximately one-third of the world's population, is particularly potent. 
I was in New Zealand at the time that the Otago' was parading and patrolling very close to the French nuclear testing grounds in the western Pacific. Night after night it was shown on television. A New Zealand Minister was on the ship. He was shown on television. I have a certain amount of admiration for  Mr Kirk  because I verily believe that he is a Prime Minister in his own right. He does not have to do what he is told, like someone not far from here. I believe he is his own man.  Mr Marshall  told him: 'Unless you can be reasonably certain of success and unless you can be reasonably certain that you will stop these tests, you can make a fool of yourself. Remember that the French are a potent force in the European Economic Community and that in 4 years' time or less we must have our exports to that Community reviewed. There is no sense in stirring up anti-French feeling in this Dominion for no purpose at all, if it is unsuccessful, when we have to place the fate of our export commodities in the hands of these people '. 
I went to the Auckland air terminal at the time. Twelve or fifteen Chinese arrived. They had New Zealands officials with them. I could tell that they were being treated as honoured guests. One thing that struck me was that they were all dressed in drab uniform clothing. It took my mind back to what Count Grandi said to Mussolini on the last night of the Grand Council meeting. He said: 'For years you have submerged our individuality and our personalities in these funereal clothes. It is time that we gave it away and threw them off'. It struck me that the dress of the Chinese was typical of communiststhe same drab uniform clothing. There was the submerging of the individuality. The exception of course is the hierarchy who control the whole business. I said: 'Surely to God this is a cockeyed business. It must be. The country that these men represent is nuclear testing on a scale infinitely greater than the scale on which the French are testing. Your people have one of your warships, the 'Otago' patrolling the French area and tormenting for all they are worth the French people in that area. You have welcomed these other people to your country. You have put down the red carpet for them and treated them as honoured guests'. Surely to God that is ambiguous morality if anything in the world is- the same morality that this Government practised in this country. I was not alone in thinking that. I quote an article from the 'Auckland Star'. It reported a statement by the Mayor of Auckland. I salute him. I take my hat off to him. The article states: 
I can 't receive Chinese either', Robbie decides. 
Auckland's mayor,  Sir Dove-Myer  Robinson, told IS members of a Chinese travel group that in order to be consistent he could not receive any official Chinese Government delegation. 
I cannot receive representatives of China or any other country so long as they continue to test nuclear weapons anywhere in the world' . . . 
My difficulty is that if I am not prepared to receive representatives of the French Government, what must my position be when it comes to my friends in China? 
To be consistent I must say the same thing', he said. 
He would not receive them, and he would not give them an official welcome. That delegation, to the shame of every decent Australian, had previously been in this country. 
Yes, it was feted by the Government. New Zealand television made much of the fact that the ship 'Otago' was supplied by an Australian supply ship. Surely to God we can throw away this ambiguous morality. If nuclear testing is wrong- and it is horribly wrong- it is wrong for A to do it, it is wrong for B to do it and it is wrong for C to do it. No other construction can be put on it. Thank the Lord that there are men in New Zealand- it is a pity that there were not a few more in Australia- with the same guts and the same forthrightness that the Mayor of Auckland has. I agree with him completely and absolutely. 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer aware that the Minister for Agriculture in Tasmania has stated that the Government's plan to cease free milk distribution to schools will cost the Tasmanian economy $550,000 per year by way of milk sales, transport, administration and school equipment? Is any consideration being given to any form of compensation to the large number of milk freighters who, over the years, have come to regard the activity as part or whole of their economy, or to the State for this loss of Commonwealth activity? Also, is the Minister aware that Tasmania will suffer more proportionately than any other State by reason of the loss of the dairy subsidy? 
-Very briefly - 
I will do that because I know perfectly well that for some strange reason nothing irritates honourable senators opposite more than for somebody to rise and speak about this proposed referendum. I rise to provide an encore with a great deal of pleasure to what was said by  Senator Webster, Senator Wright, Senator Wood  and  Senator Marriott.  But an encore was lacking on the other side of the chamber.  Senator' Murphy  was left like a shag on a rock until  Senator Milliner  at long last decided to get up and say something about the matter. I support the motion to suspend Standing Orders, but the strange thing about the whole proposition is that the discussion on this most important matter was scouted by honourable senators opposite; they would not get up and speak to the Bill. Standing Orders will be suspended again to allow this Parliament to put over the people the greatest 2-time trick that I have seen in 30 years in Parliament. I will tell the Senate what I mean. We know perfectly well before the referendum on prices control is put to the people that the Government has said that it will not operate the twin brother of control over prices, that is, the control over incomes. 
I quote from the minutes of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union, which quoted  Mr Whitlam. 
If those galahs who are interjecting would only listen they would learn.  Mr Whitlam  was speaking about the prosecution of trade unions. He said that without the AttorneyGeneral no prosecutions could take place and stated that there would be no prosecutions. That statement is in the minutes of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. 
-Mr Whitlam said it. To put this matter before the people knowing full well that it will not be operated is only making complete, absolute, damn fools of the people. I hope that goes over the air. For once in my life I hope that a lot of people hear me. I am one who, over the years, has had a mighty lot of respect for the Democratic Labor Party. I believe that its members are people who stand hard and fast to principles which they consider worth while. This time, because they support the proposal, they have been made complete and absolute fools. What is the use of putting something before the people when those charged with its administration have said previously: 'We will not operate if? 
You will not be there to operate it. You have been sold a pup. There is no doubt about it. I take great pleasure in telling you that. 
I want to take up one minute and say that because of the anti-rural bias contained in this measure, of which I am convinced, I propose to vote against this Bill. 
I have been provoked to reply very briefly to a statement made by  Senator O'Byrne  about brucellosis. However, before commenting on what he said 1 would like to say something about the remarks made by  Senator Little  about the plight of primary producers over recent years. It is true that only a year or two ago we heard in this place speech after speech about the plight of the primary producers in Australia. Only a few days ago  Senator Wright  said that official figures showed that one-third of farmers during the 1 960s earned under $2,000 a year. He went on to say that their indebtedness during that time rose from $130m to $ 1,261m in the decade of 1960-70. Surely it is reasonable to say that because the position has improved and the wheel has turned almost full circle in regard to some commodities the producer should be given a chance to make up the awful leeway. It has to be remembered that in addition to having to pay the tax set out in this legislation he has lost, according to what  Senator Guilfoyle  said the other night, $30m a year because of revaluation. 
I have risen to say that the burden of the brucellosis campaign, in spite of what  Senator O'Byrne  has said, was borne by the primary producer himself. It makes a big difference when one has had practical experience of these things. I was a dairy man for 30 years and a member of a State parliamentary committee which investigated brucellosis and tricomoniosis in Tasmania. Without any doubt whatsoever the compensation that was paid for the slaughter of animalsand that State used a test and slaughter method which is proposed to be used on the mainland after brucellosis has been reduced to certain proportions- was totally inadequate to compensate the producer for the loss that he endured. I know of one case in which a producer had to slaughter 70 cows in one day. Although the producer was partly compensated for his loss he had lost his living. Loss of production, the awful cost of having to devote a farm to some other purpose and the inconvenience involved are factors which had to be borne by the primary producer himself. I say without any hesitation that he bore the lions share of the burden. I have been to public meetings in Tasmania to discuss this proposition. 
I hope that the people of Tasmania were listening and heard  Senator O'Byrne  say that it is time the producer did something to contribute towards the cost of the brucellosis eradication campaign after all of the generous assistance that has been given to him over the years. I am sure that this statement would make him cough if he looked back and remembered the awful tribulations through which producers in Tasmania passed to bring the dairy and beef industries in that State into a condition more or less free from this scourge. A former Minister for Agriculture said that the meat export industry would pay for export inspection and disease eradiction charges, but no other export industry pays for such charges. If what he said is correct- and he should know- apparently the beef industry is to stand alone so far as the payment for the export inspection is concerned. 
One other quaint argument was put forward. The Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  who introduced this Bill in another place- and I suppose that what he had to say was said here- said that if the Australian taxpayer pays for these inspections it is tantamount to that taxpayer subsidising the consumption of Australian meat overseas. So the Government proposes to shift that burden from the Australian taxpayer, alone of all other commodities apparently, to the beef producer himself and the beef producer will be subsidising the consumption of Australian meat overseas. I say with first hand practical experience of the times through which the primary producers in this country have passed and which can come again, because I remind honourable senators - 
Oh no, I am not a knocker. I am merely stating the facts. I say to  Senator O'Byrne  that I cut my teeth on the brucellosis question. I was irritated into getting out and stating the facts. 
Yes, and they are not bad either. I was irritated into getting up and saying that the primary producers in Tasmania paid the bulk of the cost of brucellosis eradication. Certainly the compensation helped the primary producers. But do not forget that the main burden of the cost was borne by the producer himself. Although things have changed fairly rapidly we should not forget that they can change the other way just as rapidly. No industry in this country can fluctuate so quickly and so violently as primary industry. I believe that this tax is illadvised. I do not believe that the beef industry should be singled out by the Government which has said: 'Here is a special tax we are going to put on the industry'. I believe that the way to overcome part of the trouble which has agitated the Government so far as the shortage of meat in this country is concerned is to encourage an increase in the production of beef. That is the way to do it. 
But the socialist-minded person like  Mr Connor  who in relation to oil has set about to introduce such conditions as would discourage people from searching for oil at all - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order!  Senator Lillico,  I do not think that is associated with the Bill before the House. 
Very well, I will return to meat. The concept in regard to meat is that if a tax is put on it- I repeat that a $30m revaluation tax has been put on it because it has lost that amount of money and there is talk of another tax again- then in some strange way one encourages production, the article is made less scarce and the price is brought down to a reasonable proportion. I could say much more about this matter but I do not want to take up any more time. I repeat that  Senator O  'Byrne may be a good Whip but when he talked about the dairying industry this afternoon he was well and truly astray. 
-Well, the beef industry. They are all interwoven. The industry in Tasmania, in the main, bore the cost of the brucellosis eradication campaign. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate a question following upon  Senator O  'Byrne's question concerning multi-national corporations. Has any investigation been made into or cognisance taken of the ownership or control of the news media in Australia, including, of course, newspapers, by people resident overseas? Are not such propositions in the same or worse category than overseas ownership of industry which some people so much deplore? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted in the publication entitled 'Soviet Newsletter'- copies of which are circulated to all members- that the Israelis are accused of being the aggressors in spite of the fact that United Nations observers and others are of the reverse opinion? In view of these lying statements put out by the Soviet Union in regard to the cause of the conflict, and in view of the fact that a tiny nation of 3 million people is confronted by the Arab nations of 1 10 million people, backed by one of the world's super powers, can the Government still adhere to its declaration of neutrality? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture has stated that the Government's plan to cease free milk distribution to schools will cost the Tasmanian economy $550,000 per year in sales of milk, transport, administration and school equipment. 
Has any consideration been given to providing any form of compensation for (a) the large number of milk freighters who, over the years, have come to regard this activity as a part, or the whole of their economy; and (b) the State for the loss of Commonwealth revenue. 
Will Tasmania suffer more, proportionately, than any other State by reason of the loss of the free milk scheme. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for 
Labour. Has the Minister noted the suggestion by  Mr Uren,  the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, that the Government should sue construction companies which locked out workers employed on Government buildings? Should this not be a 2-way exercise, having special regard to the 120 tool sharpeners employed by General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd who are responsible for the laying off of 6,200 other employees? Should this not also come within the ambit of the law? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that some time ago at a Press conference the Prime Minister disparaged the idea of 'Waltzing Matilda' becoming the Australian national anthem? The 
Prime Minister said that he could not imagine it being played as the national anthem at, for instance, a state funeral. Would not the same sentiments apply to any solemn occasion? In view of the foregoing, why was 'Waltzing Matilda' included in the poll to be held in the near future, which will have a definite bearing on the issue? While 'Waltzing Matilda' may almost rank as a folk song of Australia, was the Prime Minister not correct in his strictures at the Press conference and would such a song almost make a caricature of a national anthem? Will the whole exercise of holding a poll not be futile and a waste of money unless the people so consulted are asked whether they want retained the present national anthem, which has served Commonwealth countries since their inception? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question: In view of the genocide practised in Tibet by the Chinese, which was exposed in its report on the matter by the International Commission of Jurists which is based in Geneva, does the Government really believe that Taiwan should be a province of" China, it having been referred to as such some time ago by the Prime Minister, because of the risk of a similar fate befalling the people of that country? Just what is the Government's policy in regard to Taiwan? 
I find myself in the position of agreeing with the 3 honourable senators who have spoken on this matter. In relation to what  Senator Byrne  has said, I call to mind the words of a very famous Tasmanian in another sphere - 
No, it was not me, but I was there and heard what he said. He said this: The rabid Party man likes to govern unfettered. He hates restraint and for that reason he hates upper Houses. He hates to have his legislation delayed'. I agree absolutely with what  Senator Byrne  has said. I say without any hesitation that probably never before has there been a time in the history of the Commonwealth when this chamber should refuse to be hurried, especially at a time when legislation is being guillotined through another place at an enormous rate. I am well aware of the fact that if this chamber dares to attempt to take its time and delay a measure until it can be put into proper perspective and until people can express an opinion on it, this action is branded at once as frustration. I think that this chamber should take no notice of the aspersions that are cast upon it. One of our newspapers in Tasmania had something to say about the position. It was speaking about this same mandate which the Government seems to think gives it a right to shove through legislation at whatever rate it thinks fit. The newspaper stated that anyone would think that this Government had discovered the Holy Grail, the right to put legislation through without any review. 
I rose to speak about the grotesque and alarming position pointed out by  Senator Wright.  In 1954 some US$36,000 was paid for a supposed work of art. Some people say that the perpetrators of it were drunk when they did it, but that does not alter the principle of it. In 19S4 some US$36,000 was paid for the painting. It was bought recently by the Australian Government for US$2 m. Surely there is no one in this place who would attempt to justify such a proposition. Even if we allow for the inflation that has taken place since 1954, surely someone must have made a mighty profit. Some people would be impolite enough to call it a rake-off at the expense of the Australian taxpayer. I agree with  Senator Turnbull.  It seems to me to be entirely wrong. If 2 men, whether one of them is the Prime Minister or whoever he may be- we are told that it was 2 men who did this business- can irresponsibly commit the Australian taxpayer to such unwarranted expenditure, there should be some way by which restraint can be put upon them. There should be some responsible authority to supervise such expenditure as this. We have seen statements by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  splashed across the front page of a Tasmanian newspaper. The headline states: 
Loose thinking 'out '-Barnard. 
The article goes on: 
Australia could not afford loose thinking- 
This is what  Mr Barnard  said: 
. when spending very large sums of taxpayers money on defence. 
I do not know about that. But  Mr Barnard  goes on to say some other very weird things which the  Chairman  would rule me out of order if I repeated. He said some things that simply do not tie up with the Government's program, especially its program on defence. It is inconceivable that at this time of inflation, at this time when, without any question our defences are going down the drain, a pair of irresponsibles you have to call them that- can purchase an alleged work of art for US$2 m that originally cost US$36,000. 
I have been told that that is so. 

 - Senator McLaren would justify anything the Government did, but, he would not justify it in his own private business. 
Because this Government does something he prattles away, interjects and attempts to justify it. No man in his right mind can justify this sort of expenditure. This item should be held up as an example to point out to the Government the complete and absolute absurdity of plunging the Australian taxpayer into this expenditure. The expenditure on this painting is very much worse than sending a bull to China and paying for the plane to take it there. With such expenditure it is no wonder that inflation is running at a rate of 1 4 per cent. I heard on the television the other night one of the new members of the House of Representatives- I forget his name- say that the Government inherited a condition of inflation when it assumed office. But, do not forget that when Labor attained office it stoked the fires with a vengeance and the rate of inflation increased from 4 per cent to more than 14 per cent. Among other things, the Government intends to spend $ 100m on a pipeline which private enterprise easily could and should have built. If we add all of these expenditures together we can see why inflation has jumpted to a rate of 14 per cent. I support entirely everything that has been said by  Senator Wright.  This place would be in a trance if it allowed such an expenditure as this to be passed without some protest. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware of a recent Tariff Board report consequent on a matter that was referred to the Board, namely, whether the inclusion of 6 secondary industry products in Schedule A of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement would be detrimental to Australian industry? Is he aware that this has been done on previous occasions and the Board has recommended that the items be not included? In view of the indifference of the previous Government, and of this one to date, to damage done to primary industry by excessive imports, will consideration be given to designating some appropriate body to assess damage, when appealed to, and to recommend appropriate action? 
Briefly, I find myself in a very similar position to  Senator Marriott  in that I would like to see both the motion and the amendment defeated. I would like to see  Senator Wright  allowed to go on with the Bill which he has presented to this place. I believe that, if the members of this Parliament had been able to make a decision years ago, then, in all probability, the site of parliament house would have been decided long ago. I believe that it was a wrong premise that people other than the members of this Parliament should have made a decision as to the site on which the new and permanent parliament house was to be built. Of course, it is a fit and proper proposition that the members of both Houses should be the people to make the decision. I do not believe that the members of both Houses have yet had a fit and proper opportunity to vote. I believe that when the last vote was taken many members were absent. At least that was so on one occasion. This is a decision which should be made when a substantial majority of members are present. 
I listened to this debate last week and I heard speaker after speaker traduce the conditions under which the members and the staff in this place do their work. I believe that the conditions under which the members of the Senate, the members of the House of Representatives and the staff of this place work compare favourably with the conditions in any parliament house in Australia, and more so. Certainly they compare favourably with the conditions in Parliament House in New Zealand. When one takes into consideration that wing after wing, comprising 3 floors, has been added to this place, that every member, as far as I am aware, has his own room in which to do his work, that attendants work under at least reasonable conditions, and also the cost of the new edifice, it makes one wonder whether- at this time, when conditions are so inflationary, when the money is needed for other purposes and when there has been a mighty increase of at least 20 per cent in government spending in this country consequent upon the last Budget it is not a most extravagant proposition to go ahead in the near future with the erection of a new parliament house. Be that as it may, I do not believe, unless only as a very last resort, that this House should submerge itself with another place in making a decision on this matter. 
I would like to see this motion and the amendment defeated. I would like to see  Senator Wright  allowed to proceed with his Bill which could then be sent to another place. My reservation about  Senator Wright's  Bill- and I may be quite wrong- is that I think Capital Hill, in all probability, is not the best site in Canberra for a national garden. But, with that reservation, I say positively that I believe that he should be allowed to proceed with his measure. It gives, as someone said here last week, the very distinct form of legality. The wording of  Senator Prowse  's amendment, as far as I am concerned, immediately rules it out of court because I believe that at this time Australia simply cannot afford the millions of dollars which would be necessary to erect the new and permanent parliament house. 
Does the AttorneyGeneral agree that the wave of particularly bestial murders over the past few months is due partly to the relegation of the crime of murder over most of Australia to being just another gaoling offence? In short, the penalty in no way fits the crime committed. Does he not believe that in these circumstances the position will grow worse? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Will the Government conduct, if it has not already done so, an exhaustive investigation into the contention of at least one scientist that hydrogen gas can be developed to become an alternative to petroleum? Can the Minister say whether the Department of Minerals and Energy has the competent personnel necessary to conduct such an investigation? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration, or any other Minister who is responsible for this matter, the following question: Is any Australian citizen who is a civil servant prohibited from visiting Taiwan in a private capacity? If so, how is he so prohibited, and what is the reason for this abrogation of human rights? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it not a fact that the real aggressor in the Middle East is the Soviet Union and that it has supplied and is supplying Arab nations aggregating 100 million or more people with the latest weapons and technical advice as to how to use them in an attempt to subdue a tiny nation of 2.5 million to 3 million people. Is it not time that this Government and the rest of the free world abandoned its policy of cowardly neutrality in view of the despicable attempt on the integrity of the small nation that I have mentioned? Is it not also true that the supply of arms by the United States of America to Israel was entirely necessary because it enabled that country to resist this aggression? Will the Government give fresh consideration to its attitude in this matter? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I ask the Minister whether he believes that  Mr T.  C. 
Winter was the most competent constitutional and economic authority available to report to the Government on power over prices and incomes. It will be recalled that he brought forth the extraordinary conclusion that all incomes should be vetted. Is it not correct to say that some of the overseas experiences in the operation of these powers quoted by  Mr Winter  certainly do not support the idea that they are necessary to combat inflation? Will or can an opportunity be given for a debate on this report during this session? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not a fair proposition that a reply to a question on notice forwarded through a Minister in this place from a Minister in another place should be a properly couched reply and not merely a reference to Hansard of another place, which reference may or may not be relevant to the question asked? I am not blaming the Minister for the reply I have received in that manner, but should not consideration be given to ruling such replies out of order for the reasons that they constitute an indignity to this chamber? 
I rise to refer briefly to a statement in the Press this morning to the effect that the search for oil in this country has practically ceased. I am prompted to raise this matter by the address that nas just been given by  Senator Jessop.  The statement reported in the Press this morning was made by a man who should know something about it, a former Minister for National Development and, if what he says is so, it is a serious business at a time when the Arab world has cornered and proposes to use its production of oil as an international weapon. If it is true that the present Australian situation has developed because of the bullheaded attitude of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who believes that this searching should be done by Government enterprise- God help us- instead of private enterprise, it is something at which the present Government should take a good hard long look. I would have no faith, and I do not think that the majority of people in Australia would have any faith, in the Government itself finding and exploiting this energy source in this country. 
I was a member of Senate Estimates Committee F and was worried when I found that we were dealing with items costing more than $100m for the inauguration of a pipeline from South Australia to Sydney under the auspices of the Government through its corporation or whatever name it gives the body established for this purpose. I could not help but think what a terrible thing it would be if it were true that private enterprise was willing and able to do the job instead of the Government. I go along absolutely with the dictum laid down by  Sir Robert  Menzies when he was Prime Minister: If private enterprise can do the job the Government should keep out. 
I did not hear what  Senator McLaren  said but it would not have been anything worth while.  Senator Webster  had something to say about inflation. I call to mind that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  not long ago said that it had been imported. I notice that one of the newspapers supported him and said that it had been imported- and it even went so far as to say that there had been some importation of stagflation. Just how you do that- how you import inflation- I do not know. It is completely beyond me. But I place a lot of reliance on what was said by  Mr Galbraith,  a prominent economist, who visited this country some time ago. He was asked whether a country can import inflation and he ridiculed the idea; he said: 'No. You create it'. Of course, even to a humble layman like myself that should be perfectly obvious. You do not import inflation into this country. You create it. I believe that it is being created in Australia by lavish, prodigal Government expenditure which has increased by about 20 per cent through this last Budget and that it is being helped along the road by inordinate wage demands. I do not think that there is any doubt about that at all. They are the 2 prime factors affecting inflation. 
I call to mind that when I was a member of the State Parliament I used to be amused- and it pertains in this Parliament- that all Labor members have a fetish that all these things can go as high as they like. They have a childish faith that the imposition of price control will rectify the whole position. Of course, it does not and it never has. In over 2,000 years it never has done so and it never will. It has been said that we have a 14 per cent inflation rate. I have heard people say that this Government inherited an inflation rate from the previous Government of about 4 per cent which it soon trebled. If an inflation rate of 14 per cent continues, does it not mean that in 7 years time the currency will not be worth anything at all- that it will be valueless? 
I am a private enterprise man. I do not apologise for it. But some time ago the Prime Minister said, in short: 'Under a Labor Government the Industry Development Corporation will be used for the democratic socialist purposes I outlined in my policy speech. ' So he is committed to what he calls 'democratic socialism' which has dawned in the United Kingdom and has brought Great Britain to her knees. A strange thing about it is that the trouble in Britain, and a lot of our trouble in this country, no longer centres on the bloated capitalist. A lot of the trouble hinges, in the main, on industries that are run and operated by the Government or by a government commission. That is where the trouble arises and the futher they go, I believe, the worse the position will be. I do not think for a moment that any benefit is incurred by anybody- the worker or the people of Australia as a whole- by this humbug that the Australian people should own their own industries. I have heard it for as long as I can remember and I understand it to mean that the Australian Government should operate the industries and own them and that in that way the people own them. I cannot conceive of any advantage accruing to the worker or to the Australian citizen generally if an industry is owned and operated by the government of the day. 
What possible benefit can it confer upon the Australian people if their industries are owned, operated and run by the Government? The situation will be quite the reverse because governments are seldom efficient. They do not have to be profitable. They do not have to go along the road that private enterprise has to take. Yet we hear a lot of this sort of thing from a government which is reputed to have hired a multi-national public relations business situated in New York to conduct the advertising for its last election campaign. I rose to draw attention to some of these factors. I say that if the Government does the spending instead of the private individual then it does not help cure inflation. I say that if the Government imposes price control, as was done previously, then that merely becomes a means of indexing price rises and does not get down to the root cause of the trouble. Until this Government realises that the remedy lies in production and until it can prevent wages chasing prices, the position will not improve. In fact, it will get worse. 
We hear some strange contentions in this country from politicians and others. I have never been enamoured of the concept of ownership of Australian industry by the Australian peopleand I am not speaking about the Australian Government. I say that if the contentions of a lot of people were put into operation worldwide and if every country had to spend its capital in its backyard half the world would be stagnant and under-developed. I believe that this country needs overseas capital. I believe that it is in the same condition as was the United States when it was first settled and had to get capital from the United Kingdom and western Europe until its industrial generation was such and its population had grown to such an extent that the capital flowed the other way. If the Government stagnates the importation of capital into this country, where there is not enough of our own for necessary development, it will hinder development and we will not progress very far at all. 
Having said that, I return to this contention which I believe needs an answer- a convincing answer- that if at this stage oil search in Australia has been brought practically to a halt by the application of socialist principles and by the application of a system which means there can be no winners even if they do find oil- by this nonsense- then surely it is time, because of the crisis through which the whole world is passing, that some remedial action was taken regarding it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the minimum weekly earnings that will attract compulsory national health insurance under the Government's proposed scheme. 
What is the lowest weekly income which will attract the maximum rate to be charged for compulsory health insurance. 
What will be the scale of weekly charges for (a) a single person; (b) a family; and(c) widows' providers after the death of the spouse who have been paying under the scheme. 
Will the proposed scheme permit people to pay for private wards, or do the charges set out allow for this; if not, how will the person who wants private hospitalisation or treatment by his own doctor, be able to achieve this. 
Does the Government know that the former British Prime Minister, theRt. Hon. Harold Wilson, wanted to establish the same scheme as Australia has at present, because of (a) the cost of the nationalised scheme, and (b) the loss of doctors in that country. 
I rise merely to draw attention to one aspect of the Bill which is before the chamber. Before doing so I want to say that I found myself to be in agreement with most of what  Senator McManus  had to say- I suppose 90 per cent of it- but not with what he had to say about a comparison between the electoral figures for Tasmania and the electoral figures for Victoria and the other States. The precise reason why the Senate was created was to counteract imbalances such as that which exists in another chamber between Tasmania and the other States. In my view it is fit and proper that the position at present with regard to the small State of Tasmania and the larger State of Victoria should pertain. The long title to this Bill states: 
To alter the Constitution so as to ensure that the Members of the House of Representatives and of the Parliaments of the States are chosen directly and democratically by the People. 
That in itself is a misnomer.  Senator Withers  quoted from an article by Malcolm Mackerras, who wrote an article for the 'Bulletin' in regard to this measure. He said that the Bill should be labelled: 
A Bill for an Act to alter the Constitution so as to rid Australian Parliaments of anti-Labor gerrymanders and to insert pro-Labor gerrymanders in their stead. 
He went on to cite as an example 6 blue ribbon seats- 3 blue ribbon Liberal seats and 3 blue ribbon Labor seats- and said that if they were assessed on a population basis only 59 per cent of the people would vote in the blue ribbon Liberal seat of Bradfield, 44 per cent in the blue ribbon Labor seat of Grayndler, 46 per cent in the blue ribbon Labor seat of Sydney, 62 per cent in the blue ribbon Liberal seat of Warringah, 59 per cent in the blue ribbon Liberal seat of Wentworth and 43 per cent in the blue ribbon Labor seat of Werriwa. That is the direct opposite of the proposition that we heard so much about some time ago of one vote one value. 
I am disappointed that a neighbouring country in which this system has been practised ever since the acceptance of elected parliaments in that country has not been quoted. No mention has been made of it. I refer to New Zealand. Just before 2 December- in the week before 2 December- there was an election in New Zealand. The newspapers in this country hailed it as a landslide victory to Labour in that dominion. There were various contentions as to what effect it would have on the subsequent election in this country. While I was in New Zealand I got hold of some Press cuttings on the election results. It should be remembered that in New Zealand elections are assessed on a population basis and that New Zealand is pretty meticulous in this respect. The New Zealand legislation lays down that there must be a redistribution every census. Incidentally there must not be a disparity of more than 5 per cent between any of the electorates. Among the newspaper headlines in New Zealand- in my view the newspaper headlines in New Zealand are just as foolish as some of the newspaper headlines in this country- there was one which said: 'Labour Sweeps to Power-  Mr Kirk  party's fourth P.M.'. Another said that Labour had the backing to redeem its policies. They went on and on. I think one of the headlines said that the New Zealand Labour Party had a mandate to put all its policies into operation because of the landslide victory. In the forefront of this screed I have before me a dissertation by a lecturer in political science at the Auckland University in which he devoted many pages to the reasons why there should be such a terrific swing to Labour and what caused it. It should be remembered that in New Zealand the electorates are assessed on a population basis. 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he can say what system will be used or has been used in conducting a gallup poll in relation to the 3 songs which it is proposed to place before the people who will be asked to express their choice of a national anthem. How are the people whose opinion is to be sought to be chosen, or how have they been chosen? In the choosing, what criterion will be or has been used? Is the Minister aware that the Sydney 'Sun' conducted its own gallup poll, which included the present national anthem as a choice, with very decisive results? 
-I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: In view of the decisive defeat of the proposals put at last Saturday's referendum, is it still proposed to persevere with the other 4 referendum proposals which obviously would be more repugnant to the Australian people than those on incomes and prices? Does the Minster agree that voters should not be tormented or their attention distracted by the introduction of spurious referendums at either a Senate or House of Representatives election? 
-Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think it a viable economic proposition to lend money to a country on a long term basis and at low interest rates in order to facilitate that country's purchase of goods from the lender? Is the policy so enunciated by  Dr J.  F. Cairns in North Vietnam in that regard the policy of the Government? If this policy is put into operation, does it mean that the Government condones the continuous and repeated aggression by North Vietnam against its neighbours? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I do not wish to detract from the sentiments which were expressed by  Senator Carrick.  Is it not beyond argument that the United Kingdom has been brought to a condition bordering on anarchy and perhaps dislocation as an economic unit, with portents of massive unemployment, by industrial chaos fostered by ultra-militant trade unionism? 
I am merely stating the facts. I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Is it not correct that a moderate form of this malaise which could expand into chaos is the prime cause of Australia's inflation and that no amount of fiddling with price tribunals, revaluations and such matters will get down to the root cause of the trouble? Surely these facts - 
Can the AttorneyGeneral verify that none of the 4 public servants involved in the hold-up by  Mr McLeod  at the Department of Aboriginal Affairs last Thursday have given statements to the police? If so, why have such statements not been given to the police? Is it a fact that the police have not asked for them? If it is, why not? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether he will request the Minister for Transport to examine thoroughly the freight system operating in New Zealand by which, as a decentralisation measure, the freight on certain categories of goods from the South Island to the North Island is subsidised by 25 per cent. Will the Minister agree that Tasmania is in an even worse position in its trading relations with the other States because of high freight costs? Will the Government follow the example of the New Zealand Government, and the suggestion of some members of the Senate Select Committee on Industry and Trade which inquired into Tasmanian freight rates, by examining the possibility of subsidising freight costs out of Tasmania? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. Is it a fact that the Commissioner of the Australian Capital Territory Police is about to leave for an overseas conference? If so, will the inquiry which he is conducting in accordance with the instructions given to him on 6 March about the events in the Department of Aboriginal Affairs be completed before he leaves for overseas? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. It relates to the tents in front of Parliament House which are claimed to be an embassy. Can the Minister say what attitude the Government would take if Croats, Italians or any other minority group which thought that it had a grievance wanted to erect tents on the lawns in front of Parliament House? 
Someone wrote a book once and called it: Menzies- The Last of the Queen's Men.' When the book was brought to the attention of  Sir Robert  Menzies he said 'I am not the last by a long, long way'. I agree. I believe that the monarchy is one of the most enduring and substantial things where democracy is practised in the British Commonwealth. I say that under its jurisdiction democracy has operated better than it has done anywhere else in the world. It seems to me to be a pity that this discussion is so onesided. It derogates from the effectiveness of this chamber as a deliberative body if all the discussion and most of the debate are corning from one side of the chamber. I call to mind that even in the little Tasmanian Parliament the AddressinReply debate was carried on for a very long time, that nearly everyone spoke in it and that all the pros and cons of State jurisdiction were discussed at fair length. It is a great pity that the speeches in this Address-in-Reply debate are in the main coming from this side of the House. 
That is right, I believe they do. 
Yes, but we come here to do a certain job and we can take the requisite time to do it, no matter how long that takes. One senator from the other side of the chamber made the remark yesterday that the Address-in-Reply debate is used by many senators as an occasion to ride a hobby horse. I say that there is one horse- I would not call it a hobby horse at ailthat should be ridden on every possible occasion and at every chance we get to mount it. I refer to the condition that this country is driven into and I offer no apology for repeating a lot of what has been said by other honourable senators in regard to inflation.  Senator Hannan  said something about the rate of inflation in Australia being ahead of that in France and in West Germany. He could have gone on further and said that we are ahead of the United Kingdom, with all its awful troubles concerning inflation. 
It seems to me, so far as inflation and our economy are concerned, that we are far along the road to becoming one of those despised States of South America. Some people say that the rate of inflation will reach as high as 20 per cent in the not distant future. So regardless is the Government of this important factor that not long ago I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  talking about sewering every city and every provincial town in the Commonwealth. If he does so or attempts to do so he will be doing it with worthless currency if the present trend continues. The Prime Minister's policy speech recounts the wonderful things that would accrue to poor suffering humanity in Australia if the Labor Government were elected. He went on to tell the people that that was their choice or that they could return Australia to the same men who have presided over the worst inflation for 20 years. That is what the Prime Minister said prior to the election on 2 December 1972. In another part of his speech when he spoke about the Prices Justification Tribunal he stated: 
We will establish a Prices Justification Tribunal not only because inflation will be the major economic problem facing Australia .  . 
And so on. The Prime Minister had quite a lot to say about inflation throughout this policy speech. But a statement which intrigued me mightily was made on 22 June last year. The Government had been operating for 8 months then and inflation had started to mount. We had got away from the idea that inflation was some Liberal-Country Party government phenomenon. Right across the page was this headline: 
PM Vows to Curb Inflation 
That was the Prime Minister's statement. The article stated: 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said yesterday the Federal Government was determined to contain inflation. 
It won't be easy. We are aware of the need to manage economic affairs prudently to avoid too great a strain on Australian resources, ' he said. 
He went on to state- this is probably the most amazing part of his speech: 
The remarkable fact about the economy is its dramatic and healthy change over the past 6 months. ' 
Certainly, it has changed mightily. Then we come to the Speech of Her Majesty which was delivered in this place the week before last. She said: 
My Government believes the economy is basically strong and buoyant. Nevertheless, it regards inflation as a most urgent domestic problem and will continue its efforts to contain it. 
The Government says that the economy is sound and strong. We heard the taradiddle in this chamber last week when an honourable senator indicated- I have his statement here and it is the weirdest thing I have read in the 30-odd years I have listened to Address-in-Reply debates- that the Queen had a chance to vet the Speech before it was delivered. He implied that she could have cut out passages which should have been cut out and all the rest of it. Certainly there is one passage which should have been cut out. It reflects no credit on the people who composed the Speech. It fairly leaps to the eye. It states: 
It intends to eliminate any remnants of discriminatory State legislation against Aborigines, a hope declared but unfulfilled by an earlier Government. 
I believe that that would have been better left out. But I return to the subject of inflation. In view of the statements made by the Prime Minister and various members of the Government since it was elected to govern this country, the Prime Minister at least must have lost all credibility so far as the Australian electors are concerned. Surely only those who want to be gulled will take any notice of the Prime Minister whenever he makes any pronouncement about the economy and, for that matter, about other things in this country where the position is rapidly going from bad to worse. 
Then we think of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I have his statement here. He says that there will be big wage rises this year. He says that the employers in Britain have found out the uselessness of resisting wage rises. Do honourable senators know that what has brought Britain to her knees more than anything else is the nationalised industries? People say that if a government takes over an industry and operates it itself thereafter, in some weird way, it belongs to the people. That is socialism. Lenin called it state capitalism. However, the people today call it socialism. It is those industries which have brought Britain to her knees. 
Further on in the Queen's Speech the Government had something to say about buying back Australian industries from overseas investors. The method set out under which these industries are to be bought back is to nationalise them. That is what was contained in the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which, last session, was referred to a committee of this chamber. There is a mighty difference between bringing back these industries- which are owned partly or largely by overseas companies- under a nationalised system and bringing them back under the free system as we have known it in this country. All the talk about overseas investment in Australia- to the effect that the Australian people should own an effective or controlling interest in the industries of this country- is in spite of the evidence to the contrary that there is insufficient capital to effect the development we want. Nevertheless, it has proved to be a good talking point, that the Australian people should own their own industries and resources and own them in the way that the British people have owned their industries, which has brought them to their knees. That is set out in the Government's program. 
In the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1, which was published in 1972 and which deals with overseas investment in Australia, it is shown that of the total gross national production in this country only between 2 and 3 per cent was paid overseas to service the money which came in to effect much of the development which has taken place since the war ended. When I was on the farm, if I could raise money or raise the resources necessary for the development of that property at only 2 per cent approximately of the total production on that property I would say: 'Bring it along. It is a good proposition'. I take with a big grain of salt all this talk about buying back the farm and all the rest of it. As I have said here previously, if each country had a taboo placed on the export of its capital and if it had to expand all its surplus capital in its back yard, a lot of the world would be an undeveloped waste which would never be developed. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  Before I resume my seat, I cannot resist the temptation to read a passage in an article which was written by Denis Warner. Recently a delegation from North Vietnam visited this country. Something was said about it by  Senator McManus  and others. The delegation came here as representatives of an ism which is foreign to us. I will not say much about that. Reference was made to Whitlam 's trip to South East Asia and to the fact that he did not go near South Vietnam. In addition Cairns has visited Hanoi and has made statements which have inflamed people who are now and must be our allies in future, in spite of what the Whitlams and the others say to the contrary. The representatives of these people visited Parliament House. They were entertained by members of the Government. 
Yes, at a luncheon. The tendency of the Government, since it assumed office, has been to placate the communist and to go hand in glove with him wherever it is possible to do so. There has been talk about recognising the National Liberation Front in Vietnam. I quote now from the article by Denis Warner. He said: 
But the sympathy for the Vietcong disappeared when the communists in February, 1968, liquidated 5,800 of the inhabitants who were found later in the horrible mass graves. 
With the beginning of the Easter offensive in 1972 it looked as if the North with its steamroller tactics and its absolute disregard for civilian casualties had abandoned any thought of winning the people 's support. 
Some 23,000 civilians were killed in Quang Tri province . . . 
So it continues. Warner attributes the fact that Thieu has been able to continue for so long to the reaction of the South Vietnamese against the horrible North Vietnamese atrocities and a delegation from North Vietnam was fawned upon and entertained by our friends opposite. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is it a fact that since the Prime Minister, at a seminar of the Metal Trades Industry Association of Australia on 22 June last year, vowed to curb inflation, inflation has increased dramatically? In what way does the Government propose to fulfil the pledge given by the Prime Minister? 
-Just for a few minutes at this late hour- it is not really a late hour- I shall speak to this almost empty chamber from which nearly all thought of deliberation seems to have departed. Particularly has this trend been taking place since the advent of the present Government. But I take a lot of pleasure in rising to refer to this gag to which most of us have listened yesterday and today. It is suggested that because these 4 proposals are to be put before the people at a referendum it is axiomatic that this chamber should pass them with very little discussion. That suggestion has been put up in this place again and again yesterday and today. Anyone who trots that out is scraping the bottom of the barrel to find an argument. I say that for this reason: I believe that it is the duty of this place to study, to deliberate on, to debate and to assess every proposition which is to be put before the people by way of referendum. If, in the opinion of this place, such a proposition will not advance the welfare of the people or confer any benefit on them it should be rejected. I have no hesitation whatever in saying that. 
The purpose of the Constitution Alteration (Democratic Elections) Bill is to ensure that the members of the House of Representatives and of the parliaments of the States are chosen directly and democratically by the people. The very name implies a lie. The first past the post system of voting has been mooted. Admittedly, the Government also has suggested retaining preferential voting but making it optional. Again, that is only a gag. If the Government imposes these 2 principles on the people of the Commonwealth, then that is the end of representative and democratic government as we have known it. 
I have referred to this point before and I will refer to it again. About 12 months ago I went to New Zealand. It is true that New Zealand has operated an assessment of electorates on a population basis. In addition, New Zealand has operated a first past the post system for as long as it has had elections. There was much display in the Press in this country and in New Zealand about the terrific swing to Labor in New Zealand. Some of the newspapers said that Labor had a mandate- we have heard a lot about mandates in this place- to put all its policies into operation. I had a rundown on the figures prepared, and to my very great surprise I found that Labor got only 48 per cent of the votes, yet it got 64 per cent of the seats. On the other hand, the Government Party at that time, the National Party, got 41 per cent of the votes and only 37 per cent of the seats. I say that that is an awful result. Surely that is just a haphazard method of getting a government without any true reflection of the opinion of the voters. That demonstrates what happens. Labor with 48 per cent of the votes, got 64 per cent of the seats and the other party, with 4 1 per cent of the votes, got 37 per cent of the seats. 
Let me compare that with what this Government is setting out to do; that is, to improve the system which operates in this country. The figures I received from an official in the Library show that at the last election Labor with 49 per cent of the votes, got 53 per cent of the seats. The Liberal-Country Party got 41 per cent of the votes and 46 per cent of the seats. By comparison with the result in New Zealand, surely that is a much more reasonable proposition. That is a better result. With the system of first past the post voting plus an equation of electorates on a population basis, one is apt to get any result at all. Do honourable senators know that the swing to Labor in New Zealand was only 3 per cent, but it brought about completely devastating results? I believe with all the sincerity that I possess that the Government proposes to put this proposition before the people to ensure permanent Labor government. That is the reason for it. If the Government did not think that this proposition would advantage it electorally, it would not have a bar of it; it would be in this place to a man, fighting it tooth and nail. 
I know New Zealand well. It always has operated this system. The reason New Zealand has had National Party governments is that it has a very different distribution of population. It is not nearly so centralised. In addition, New Zealand has a very much bigger percentage of rural people. I would say that the percentage of the population who are primary producerspeople who make their living from the land- is considerably greater in New Zealand than in Australia. Those factors at times have tilted the balance against the Labor Party and brought into being a National Party government. But I have not a scintilla of doubt that if that system is applied to a country such as Australia with its excessive centralisation, we will have Labor governments in this country forever. 
Yes, a one party system of government. That is why this Bill has been brought forward, and for no other reason. That is why I say that the title of this Bill is a lie.  Senator Little  had something to say about the United Kingdom. That country operates under the first past the post system. One of the factors that leaps to the eye is that in the last election the Liberal Party won 19 per cent of the votes and gained 2 per cent of the seats. This document I have, which was put out by the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra, had this to say about the recent election in the United Kingdom: 
The election result indicates an erratic correlation of popular support and parliamentary representation. The other minor parties gained 24 seats from approximately 1,700,000 votes. The Liberals received more than 6 million votes but only 14 seats. Labour won S seats more than the Conservatives, while polling 0.9 per cent fewer votes. It is estimated that, if proportional representation with the single transferable vote had applied, the Conservatives would have won 242 seats, Labor 236 and Liberal 122. 
The Liberals would have won 122 seats instead of 14 seats, or whatever it was. By comparison with the system that operates in New Zealand and the system that operates in the United Kingdom, the Australian democratic system as it is applied to this Federal Parliament is as near perfection as democracy can attain. But that is not good enough for this Government. It wants to make certain. As  Senator McManus  said here on one occasion, the principal force activating the people who prepared this Bill is: 'Could I win with it?' My God, they will win with it if they can get it passed, but I have enough faith in the common sense of the Australian people to know perfectly well that they will not get it passed. 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry noted the estimate by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics that the superphosphate subsidy reduces the cost of super spread on land by 30 per cent or more? Will not the withdrawal of the subsidy have a most adverse effect on the improvement and laying down of fresh pasture, as well as on the small farmer who has not shared in the abundant prosperity about which  Mr Whitlam  speaks? Will the Government think again on this matter which is vital to primary producers, or is the decision final? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether he will clarify completely the attitude of the Government towards the proposed United States base on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Is the Government in favour of or in opposition to the proposal? Will an equivocal statement be made in regard to the proposal? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there any provision in the Constitution, or in any Act, that where there are discretionary powers under an Act or Regulation there has to be a right of appeal; if so, where is it so provided, and does it so provide for an appeal to an independent tribunal. 
Would a tribunal be considered truly independent if one of its members had been involved in the determination of the matter under dispute. 
If there is no provision for such an appeal, will the Attorney-General have such a proposal included in his proposed Bill of Rights. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise to make a personal explanation. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Does the honourable senator claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, I do. I did not say that 1 was opposed to Australians owning their own industries. 1 did not make any statement remotely resembling that. 
Yes. That is a cap that will not fit and 1 will not wear it. I did say it was a good talking point that the Government was making out that it was buying back Australian industries from foreign ownership whereas in actual fact it was using that gag to nationalise industries. But under no circumstances and nowhere in my speech did I express opposition to Australians owning their own industries. I did say that we had to have foreign capital. I still think that. But I refute the statement made by  Senator Wriedt.  I am not opposed to Australians owning their own industries. By the same token I am not opposed to outside capital coming in to help us to develop this country. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I rise to state briefly a point of view on this Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill. I listened with a lot of interest, as I always do, to what  Senator Cant  had to say. Several times during his speech he challenged somebody, particularly somebody on this side of the chamber, to define 'socialism'. I could work out probably half a dozen different interpretations of 'socialism' and could work out quite a number of degrees of 'socialism'. I call to mind that some years ago I went on a Commonwealth parliamentary tour to the United Kingdom. It intrigued me immensely to hear Labour members of the House of Commons claiming that they were socialists. Being a very mild man, I said to them at length one evening: Is your idea of "socialism" that you nationalise all those industries that are capable of being nationalised and that the Government takes them over and operates them itself? Is that what you mean by socialism? Is that what you claim to support when you say you are socialists?' They said: 'Yes'. That may be their idea of 'socialism' but it is not mine. Far from it. 
If honourable senators go to the Parliamentary Libary and get at least one book on the history of the Russian revolution they will find that it is claimed that socialism was tried. Money was abolished, everything was to be free and the workers were to produce goods and give them away to other people who could not produce that type of product and so on. Lenin himself admitted its failure. As a result of that system millions of people died of starvation. Lenin said: 'We were forced to introduce a system of state capitalism. ' He did not go on to say this, but I do: It is the worst system of capitalism that one could imagine. 
-I believe it is. It is big business inasmuch as in the Soviet Union, for instance, all the capitalists are rolled into one big capitalist. It is business so big that by comparison big business, as we regard it, in the United States of America, is insignificant. However, I go on and leave that matter.  Senator Cant  said that if there has been a dearth in the search for oil in Western Australia it can be blamed on several companies; if there has been a dearth in the search for oil in Bass Strait or around the Victorian coast it can be blamed on other companies. We know, of course, that there has been a terrific drop in the search for oil, but this is because of the removal of the incentive that had been held out by the previous government which  Senator Cant  said accomplished nothing in 23 years. The decline in search activities resulted from the removal of those incentives which had been responsible for the discovery of 70 per cent of the oil which is used in Australia. Perhaps he can take some hope from the statement, which appeared in the 'Canberra Times', by a commentator who writes often in that newpaper and about whom I refrain from saying anything uncomplimentary, although I could quite easily do so. 
I think the honourable senator knows perfectly well to whom I refer. This commentator says that there will be a boom in off-shore oil drilling and he quotes figures. He says that whereas so few were drilled last year, it will jump immeasurably; it will jump because if the people concerned do not drill they will lose their leases altogether. That is why they will drill. That seems to me to be a back-handed kind of incentive to get people to work and to do the job. He goes on to say that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  has said that if the High Court of Australia upholds the Commonwealth 's right to legislate over off-shore areas he will probably introduce legislation to give stronger control to the Commonwealth over oil and gas exploration. If the Minister does that it may well be that the exploration companies will be placed in a position where they cannot win at all. I have very little faith in this expected boom in oil exploration because it is entirely the wrong incentive to say: 'If you do not get into it and do a bit you will lose your lease, but if you do discover anything it is problematical whether you will win at all'. In those circumstances I very much question whether any definite beneficial results will be obtained. I believe in what Menzies said years ago and I hope my Party always adheres to it: If private enterprise can do the job reasonably it should be allowed to do it and the Government should keep out of it. We have heard it said how necessary it is that Australia should achieve 100 per cent ownership in Australian energy resources. Even the Prime Minister says that he hopes to achieve an objective of 100 per cent ownership in Australian energy resources. That is a mighty target. The Minister, in introducing this Bill, said that the Bill was in conformity with the Government's policy of Australian ownership and control of our natural resources. Well, that is a good talking point. Average Australian citizens, without any hesitation, would say 'Oh yes, we believe that the Australian people should own their own resources', until they start to think further. 
I know a mighty lot of stabs have been made at the ownership of Australian mineral and petroleum resources. I believe  Senator Carrick  mentioned that it is claimed that 60 per cent is owned by overseas affiliations. I notice that only today honourable senators were circulated with a statement by the Australian Mining Industry Council which claimed to have gone thoroughly into the overseas ownership of Australian mineral resources. The Council gave a figure of ownership of 39.3 per cent. The Council states: 
Our survey, unlike the latest available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 1968, includes the value of smelting and refining as well as ex-mine values. 
I think that is a fair and reasonable proposition. The Council continues: 
Smelting and refining values were included because these operations form a valuable part of the mining industry. 
Many authorities- and they can be citedfamiliar with the mining industry and with petroleum exploration have spoken about the very great difficulty in inducing the Australian shareholder to invest in a doubtful and chancy proposition such as the search for petroleum and minerals. Even a committee of this place which was set up to investigate overseas ownership of Australian resources mentioned this fact of the very great difficulty in getting the Australian investor, particularly the small investor who is important in the scheme of things, to invest his money in such as chancy venture as the exploration for minerals and petroleum. This Government proposes in this Bill- and all the powers are enumerated- that the taxpayer of this Commonwealth will perforce by means of taxation find the necessary monetary resources to go ahead and explore for minerals and petroleum offshore. 
I am one of those people who believe that one of the things that has brought down the United Kingdom to its present level has been the nationalisation of vital industries in that country. 
I do not think there is any doubt about it. I am not joking. The story is there. The latest crisis was caused in the nationalised coal mines and the nationalised transport industries. All the stories about the bloated capitalist and the workers having to strike to try to get a better deal from the companies that were growing fat on the land have all gone by the board. I repeat that one of the big factors which has brought the United Kingdom to the condition in which it is today has been nothing more or less than the exploitation brought about by these nationalised industries. In other words- as the British Labour members used to term it- socialism; but it is not socialism at all. 
A lot of things have been said about overseas ownership of Australian industries. I believe that if every country had perforce to spend its surplus capital in its own back yard and could not use it to develop other undeveloped areas in this world, it would be one of the greatest impediments to advancement and development that could possibly be imagined. To go around, in regard to this measure and in regard to another measure that is before this chamber, preaching this song about how necessary it is for the Australian people to own their own resources and in the process of getting them back to automatically nationalise them is, in my opinion, a very snide trick indeed. If that is the propositionand it is stated in the Minister's second reading speech- the remedy is very much worse than the disease itself. I cannot for the life of me understand the attitude of mind that prompted this measure or the imbecilic outlook that brings it forward. 

 Senator Cant said that it took the previous Government 23 years to develop nothing. He said in another part of his speech that the previous Government spent $138m in subsidising oil search. I wish to refer to the 3 years prior to the discovery of oil in Bass Strait. In 1966-67 we imported $233m worth of oil. In 1967-68 we imported $244m worth and in 1968-69 we imported $246m worth. So that we expended $130m in subsidies- less than we paid for oil in one year of that decade or more- to discover 70 per cent of our requirements. Surely to a kindergarten child with no experience whatever that is a wonderful proposition. Anyone who denies the fact that for a fraction of the amount we were spending previously on oil imports we discovered 70 per cent of our oil requirements and then turns around and removes the very prop that brought about that situation is committing an act of the most blatant irresponsibility one could possibly imagine. This is at a time when the world is fronting up to an oil crisis. I cannot understand the thinking that prompts such an outlook. 
I notice that  Mr Hawke  said that he would nationalise the oil industry. I notice that only a few days ago  Mr Clyde  Cameron said that he would nationalise the oil industry. I read that somebody said- I forget who it was- one thing that history teaches us is that people learn nothing from history. Another thing which is taught is that some governments learn nothing from contemporary events occurring in other countries. This Government has not learnt one solitary thing from the catastrophe which overtook Great Britain- the nationalisation, strikes and socialism as some people would call it- and which has brought it to its knees and made it a third rate power in the world. 
The United Kingdom. All that the Government can do is to hurry helterskelter along that same path to bring about in this country the same conditions as have operated in the United Kingdom. I conclude by saying that this seems to me to be an elementary and fundamentally sound proposition: The people of this Commonwealth can thank the previous Government for the fact that for the expenditure of a fraction of the cost to this country of importing oil for one year sufficient oil was discovered to account for 70 per cent of our requirements. 
What is wrong with it? It is not a funny story. The figures vouch for it. It can be seen in black and white. The peculiarity about some of those who are wedded to this policy of nationalisation is that they would dispute that two and two make four. Figures mean nothing to them. 
I do not think they could even do that. Anyone who turns down a proposition such as this and says: 'It is no good; we have to remove the prop' and nationalises the industry needs to be psycho-analysed. That is what I would do with him. I believe that had the conditions which applied previously applied also over these last 20 months of disaster the probability is that that figure of 70 per cent, as the proportions of our requirements that we can meet from our own resources, would have been very much greater. But the prop has been knocked away and in its place it is proposed to impose a system which has failed the world over and which will fail in this country. Eventually it will bring us to the same condition as that to which it has brought the United Kingdom. I oppose the Bill with all the vim and vigor that I can sustain. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is he in a position to deny the very general rumour in Tasmania that it is proposed to replace the 'Empress of Australia' with another ship on the passenger run to Devonport? 
I rise to support completely the statements - 
I rise briefly to support entirely what has been said by  Senator Wright. 

 - Senator Keeffe was sure to say something like that. As this chamber is just as much involved with the coming election as another place, surely it is a reasonable proposition that we should know all the factors concerning it, such as the issue of writs and everything else that  Senator Wright  enumerated. Furthermore, it was only a day or two ago that it was stated in the Press that there was division in the Ministry over whether or not the election should be held a week sooner than 1 8 May. There are factors which I think we should know. This seems to me to be a paltry attitude for the Government to take. In effect Senate Murphy says: 'We are going to sit on this knowledge and we are not going to divulge it to you people who are just as much involved in it as the other place.' 
Motion (by  Senator Murphy)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs in a position to state what the attitude of the United States would be, particularly with regard to the ANZUS Pact, if a Soviet scientific station were established in Australia? 
