I ask the Minister for Social Services whether it is true that in Victoria alone the number of names on the waiting list of State residential centres for mentally retarded children stands at approximately 1,433 and is growing by 100 or more per year? Would it be also true to say that plans for additional accommodation make provision for only 636 beds over the next 5 years? Does the Minister agree that this state of affairs represents a desperate situation to the parents of these unfortunate children and other members of their families and places a tremendous strain on the health of the parents caring for the retarded? Therefore, will he consider making available under the home health services such services as those of social workers, physiotherapists, teachers and speech therapists, and will he consider giving financial assistance to parents whose child requires these services? Finally, will he make available to the House the total number of those awaiting admission to residential centres throughout Australia? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister as Acting Treasurer. Is it true that interest on finance for home purchase has been increased? If so, to what figure? Is it also true that interest on savings bank deposits in excess of $4,000 has been increased? If this is so why is there discrimination against deposits of a lesser amount? Is it the intention of the Government to increase interest on finance for war service homes? If not - and I hope it is not so - why is there discrimination against persons securing finance through banking and other private institutions? 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
How many young men are serving 2-year gaol sentences because they refuse to be conscripted to serve in Vietnam. 
How many other youths are to be prosecuted for the same offence in the next 2 months. 
In view of the findings of a Gallup Foll taken recently that only 5% of the people interviewed favoured the gaoling of conscientious objectors to a particular war, and that 19% favoured no penalties at all, will the Government take early action to repeal, at least, the penalties section of the National Service Act. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Works aware that the Department of Works square box type architecture is becoming a regular feature of government buildings being erected in Canberra? Will the Minister draw to the attention of Department of Works architects this uninteresting and retrograde type of architecture and request that in keeping with other attractive features of this city they should use a little more imagination in the matter of design? Will he not agree that with a little more imagination in design and perhaps a little more expenditure Australia's capital city could be made one of the architectural gems of the world? 
The Treasurer will recall that in reply to a question asked on Tuesday by the honourable member for Bradfield he referred to a statement made by  Mr Hobart, Chairman  of Stramit Boards Ltd, which supported the recently imposed credit squeeze. Is the Treasurer aware that materials produced by Stramit are used almost entirely in the building industry for commercial and industrial building? Is he aware that about 1% only of Stramit's production is used in domestic building or villa construction? In view of these facts how can the Hobart statement be used as a measuring rod for the condition of the home building industry due to the credit squeeze imposed upon it by this Government? 

 Questions 

ls the Minister for Primary Industry aware that considerable unrest exists among Commonwealth meat inspectors owing to the heavy demands being placed upon them to cope with meat exports to the United States of America? Are these conditions of overwork the cause of the decline in the standard of inspections referred to by the Minister in reply to a question last Tuesday? Is the Minister aware that many Commonwealth meat inspectors are being denied their annual leave, sick leave and long service leave owing to this labour shortage? At the request of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. I ask the Minister whether he will invite a representative from that un on to attend any further conferences on this crisis. Finally, what action  is contemplated to give employment to the hundreds of people facing dismissal as a result of this breakdown in killing centres in my own electorate and in centres such as Ballarat, Geelong, Portland, Wodonga and Shepparton in Victoria? 
The House is debating the Handicapped Children (Assistance) Bill 1970. After perusing the Bill and the second reading speech by the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  I think I should point out that we must beware of the danger of being too thankful for small mercies. The Minister referred in the opening remarks of his second reading speech to the election policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the remarks he had made  on  this subject. The Minister then said: 1  did not hear one criticism of this proposal in the whole of the election campaign.  I  would take it that it has the support of the whole House. 
I do not want to be critical of the Minister's remarks. It would be wrong for anybody to criticise the humanity of this measure. But I think that much criticism - not unjust criticism but perhaps helpful criticism - can be levelled at the inadequacies of the Bill. After referring to the ยง1.50 per day payment which the Commonwealth makes in respect of accommodation away from home in the case of certain handicapped children, the Minister went on to say: 
But, taking it by and large, it is true to say that in this area the States bear the major share of the responsibility and have enlisted the aid of various voluntary bodies to help them discharge it 
With all due deference to the Minister I suggest that one word should be added to that statement. I think it would then depict the true situation. I suggest it should read: Various voluntary bodies try to help them discharge it.' It amazes me that the Government should suggest that more responsibility be placed on the shoulders of voluntary organisations and even go so far as to suggest that the States will be freed from providing capital subventions or subsidies to voluntary bodies. 
In spite of the various efforts made by voluntary and local government bodies, the problem of care for handicapped children is increasing daily. This measure sounds very good,  Mr Speaker,  and in fact it is good but nevertheless the procedure for which it provides creates discrimination. It is not pointed discrimination or discrimination that one likes to see. This sort of legislation creates unjustifiable discrimination. I will amplify this statement a little further. One can see examples of it in the case of kindergartens, creches, primary schools and other institutions in the more wealthy suburbs. They have much better amenities than similar institutions in my own electorate, for instance 85% of which is, I suppose, is a working-class area. What I refer to as discrimination is not something that people like to see or something which the Government wants to bring about in this measure. But by the same token this Bill does bring about that sort of discrimination and creates a feeling of unjustness in the minds of people who cannot put their hands in their pockets to the same extent as other people. 
I remarked earlier about the inadequacies of the Bill but will refer to them later. In the latter half of his speech the Minister expressed his sentiments about the families of handicapped children. I know that his sentiments are very real but people with handicapped children or handicapped relatives say that eloquent words are of little help to (heir families or to the handicapped children and do nothing to assist them at the greatest point of need. The greatest point of need is during the first years of the life of the handicapped child. When speaking of handicapped children I mean children with physical as well as mental handicaps, lt is not possible to divorce the needs of the handicapped child from the needs of the family. The needs of the family are the most urgent in the early years of the child's life. This Bill does nothing to assist the family or the child during this period. Home nursing, home help, counselling and social worker assistance during these years could reduce hospital waiting lists. Many parents, given assistance at this stage of the child's life, could later cope with many of the problems which drive them to seek hospital placement as the only means of preventing a complete family breakdown. Voluntary organisations, with all the warmth, sympathy, understanding and drive in the world cannot adequately provide this sort of assistance. Assistance of this kind in those circumstances must ultimately be provided through Government guaranteed social service, medical and paramedical agencies. 
Voluntary organisations have undertaken almost too willingly the care and education of, in particular, mentally handicapped children from the pre-school years through to the sheltered workshop. As the Minister suggested, this legislation will encourage them in this task. However, no Government expects voluntary organisations to undertake the education of non-handicapped children. A family with a handicapped child is a handicapped family. There is no getting away from that fact. The Minister himself said this. There is no justice in a policy that asks not less of this family but more because of a misfortune to which it has in no way contributed. Looking at it in its best light, this Bil) imposes an additional burden on the parents of handicapped children who, in the main, make up the voluntary organisations which will seek subsidies for the new day centres and residential referred to in it. 
One of the most desperate and tragic situations that confront parents of severely handicapped children at this time is the inadequacy of hospital type accommodation for their children. I refer to children who are too severely handicapped to be able to be satisfactorily placed in most hostels run by voluntary organisations. Some church hospitals can care for these children but the numbers are pitifully small when compared with the need. I will give honourable members some indication of the need by referring to the Kew Cottages in Victoria. As at 1st May 1969 the waiting list was 1,433, of which 198 were described as most urgent and 248 described as urgent.  Mrs Marie  Coleman, Director of the Victorian Council of Social Service, on 16th October last year said: 
The situation is tragic. A conservative estimate of the number of residential beds needed for (he severely retarded is 1.3 for each thousand of the population. Victorian residential beds amount to about half that estimate. 
She went on to say that plans for the provision of additional accommodation at residential centres over the next 5 years - she was referring to Victoria - amount to approximately 636 beds. The waiting list is growing at the rate of approximately 100 each year, lt may not be generally realised that these figures are more than statistics. They represent a desperate situation for many families. Normal children are held back and the health of the parents is undermined by the tremendous strain of caring for the retarded member. This strain cannot be alleviated unless some provision is made. Parents associations have made many approaches to the State Government and have been told always that there is not enough money. This is a matter that has moved beyond State finances and has become one of national concern. 1 refer again to the position of parents. Little has been said in this debate so far about the position of parents. I call these people waiting list parents. These waiting list parents especially are the ones for whom some form of social service assistance by way of help in their homes is essential. The burdens carried by these families include high medical costs, high transport costs, special safety measures in the home, excessive laundry costs, costs of excessive clothing replacements and other excessive costs which may be incurred by the condition of a particular child. Indeed, the need for residential accommodation for these people is very great, lt could be lessened if a range of community services were available to help these families to keep a child at home. Such community services could include visiting social workers, physiotherapists, teacher and speech therapist services, financial assistance to the family whose child's condition requires this, a home help service - especially with trained personnel - and a visiting nursing service for the very young and for the bedridden or almost totally dependent child. These are an absolute necessity. 1 could go further with this list. Grants could be made to the States to help them run a correspondence course for the mothers of handicapped children not serviced by any facility. This would enable mothers to start training their children along sound lines. There should also be compulsory medical examinations under the national health service for all 4-year-olds to enable earlier assessment of children with special needs due to a disability and hostel accommodation for the aged, orphans, and others unable to live at home for any reason, such as illness, age of parent, distance from a facility, condition of handicapped person in relation to other members of the family, size of family, etc. I believe also that provision should be made for holiday or emergency placement. 1 refer to those handicapped children at present being educated by State education departments. These children have no certainty and no security for the future. They need post-school training as offered to the rest of the school population, but training geared to the needs and abilities of these mildly retarded persons. Perhaps this could be done under the auspices of the Department of Education and Science, that is, through institutions of advanced education. Many of these people are capable of a far wider range of occupation than the repetitive assembly work usually thought of as their limit. However, post-school training, guaranteed employment and on-the-job counselling are essential. These people are not properly placed in terminal sheltered workshops and require a transitionally sheltered employment situation and frequently hostel accommodation. I know that amendments would be required to the legislation dealing with assistance to sheltered employment to achieve this end. 
I wish to refer to the position in other countries. I know that comparisons are odious but I shall mention first the United 
States of America. In Chicago, 1,578 young adult retardates, whose annual earnings totalled $70,000, were given intensive vocational training over a year or more. The cost of this training was $2,250,000. However, in their first full year of work after training, their total earnings were $2.5m. So, in effect, the cost of their training was met by their earnings in their first full year of work. The Dutch will spend up to 6 years on post-school training of retarded persons because it pays them to do so. Denmark pays a special benefit to all parents of mentally retarded persons. So too does Sweden. 
I suggest that Commonwealth bursaries should be made available for student social workers to encourage them to work with families which have handicapped, particularly mentally handicapped, children. Bursaries should be made available also to encourage the training of nurses to work with severely handicapped children. Another form of aid would be the introduction of taxation rebates as a form of social assistance where additional expense is incurred in caring for a handicapped member of a family. The overall need is that the mentally handicapped person should be regarded as an individual personality having the same rights as other Australians and, through his lifetime disability, having greater need of specialised assistance than more gifted citizens. In making provision for this assistance, we must guard against not seeing him within the context of a family unit. 
I refer now to the report of the Senate Select Committee on Medical and Hospital Costs. Regarding this subject of the physically and mentally handicapped, the Committee said in its report: 149. The Committee considers that there is insufficient information available on the problems involved in the care and treatment of the physically and mentally handicapped. Voluntary organisations do provide considerable assistance to these groups. There is a pressing need for a thorough assessment of the most practical forms of assistance necessary for their solution. 150. The Committee recommends: That Commonwealth and State Governments should conduct a thorough joint inquiry into the problems associated with the special care and treatment of the physically and mentally handicapped, of all ages, for the purpose of establishing the most satisfactory practical forms of assistance. 
I have suggested already some of these practical forms of assistance. I could suggest others including some assistance in  meeting the cost of essential drugs which are not obtainable onthe free list. This presents financial hardships to the families or the parents of handicapped children. Help is required in catering for the services that these children need or to assist mentally retarded children attending special schools. A need exists for increased mental retardation content in training courses for medical practitioners, general nurses and, in particular, nurses taking positions in mothercraft and child care clinics. These are very essential requirements.  1  do not intend to speak at any great length on this matter. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  quoted at length from a brochure that he had which referred to matters within his own electorate and in particular to what I think he called the Westhaven Home. The report that the honourable member read was a very glowing one. I want to read a report that presents the other side of the picture. It is one that is very real because it covers not only the metropolitan area of Victoria but also the country districts of that State. It is headed: 'A crisis for retarded in schools', and it reads: 
Some slow learners - children with intellectual handicaps, or social and emotional problems - have to wait up to three years to get places in Victorian Government special education schools. 
The delay can mean it is too late to help the children by the time they are admitted. 
And some who do make it take lessons in corridors and converted shelter sheds. 
These conclusions are among the findings of a survey of the State's special education facilities made by the Victorian Teachers' Union field officer,  Mr Barrie  Rimmer. 
The report says that the shortage of special schools in outer Melbourne suburbs means that many handicapped children travel up to 60 miles a day. 
It cites a well documented list of other special educational problems. 
A shortage of psychology and guidance branch staff means that some children with specific problems - especially in country areas - are overlooked 
The whole of Gippsland, including the heavilypopulated Latrobe Valley, receives only 3 visits a year,' it says.'  'Officers find themselves interviewing parents and pupils in storerooms, staff rooms, sick bays and even shelter sheds. This situation is almost unbelievable when it is remembered that officers frequently wish to make tests of a sensitive nature.' 
 Schools for physically handicapped children arc grossly overcrowded. 
The report says playing areas at Yooralla Carlton, Marathon and Yooralla Balwyn schools are totally inadequate. 
These areas are small and either concrete or asphalt, making games and important physical activities impossible.' 
The Fitzroy Special School and the Marathon School for physically handicapped children are singled out for scathing appraisal. 

 Mr Rimmer says the Fitzroy School is a disgrace'. 
The old 2-storey buildingis dubbed a fire trap. 
The rooms generally arc dilapidated with paint peeling from the walls and stains where the roof leaks. On the ground floor there is continual interruption from the first-floor noise.' 
Six is a crowd in the art-craft room - an old 10 ft by 10 ft shed. 
A stairway in the school is rotten. 
The report says that the Marathon School has 9 classrooms for 1 1 classes.  Mr Rimmer  estimates its accommodation - used for 103 students - is adequate for no more than 75-80. 
Two portable classrooms owned by the Country Roads Board have poor ventilation. The report says the rooms feature 'extreme heat in summer and extreme cold in winter'. 
There is no room for wheelchairs in the classrooms. 
Andthere is no water piped to the rooms - so art work is almost impossible. 

 Mr Rimmer calls for: A doubling of the intake to special teacher training courses. More senior teaching jobs in special schools so experienced staff do not have to leave for promotion. 
The immediate addition of four new special schools he suggests Watsonia, Burwood, Traralgon and Dandenong as sites. 
That is the report on the other side of the scale and it does not suggest that all is as well in Victoria as it is in New South Wales. 
The Minister went on to say: 
It is vital that help be given to these handicapped people early in life, because a child - even an infant - is easier to train than an adult. 
The Minister admits this but unfortunately this Bill will do nothing to overcome the problems faced by spastics, who were referred to by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson),  dyslectics, autistics, the profoundly deaf, the blind and the mentally retarded. In all these cases the training must be given to the child at a very early age. This Bill will do little to help in this regard. The Minister in his speech said:  . . both the States and voluntary bodies have been making valiant efforts in this field of assistance to handicapped children. This measure is designed to augment these efforts without interference in the proper fields of their administration. 
In spite of these valiant efforts the position is getting worse every day. Private funds and local government funds are running dry. if honourable members care to look thr ough the Press in Victoria or examine localgover nment administration in that Statethey will findthat rates will take a terrific leap. How can the councils and pe opl e with inadequate means find this sort of money when it is just not there? It is ridicuiousto think that councils will be able to face up to these problems. 
The' Minister went on to say in his second reading speech: 
It is clear enough that there is still much to be done. There are, we estimate some 50.000 handicapped children under16 years of age in Australia, including both those who have some physical handicap and those who are mentally reta rded. Probably under half of these are adequatelycalered for by special facilities. 
The Minister is wrong. I would say probably more than half of those children are inadequately catered for. That is the position in Victoria and there is no doubt about if. Nobody can deny that that is the position. I now come to a part of the Ministers speech which shocked me a little, despite his sincerity. He said: 
This Hill will help the States, because it will free them from the need to provide capital subventions to voluntary bodies, or at least will greatly reduce the need for them to do so. Insolariesas  thisoccurs.It  will allow them-- 
That is. the States - to devote greater funds towards assisting handicapped children in other ways. 
To me this is a shocking suggestion. In other words it means that voluntary organisations and parents bodies will have to provide greater help. The States will be relieved of their burdens and the parents and voluntary bodies will have to bear the costs. I say without fear of contradiction that any further responsibility placed on parents associations, other voluntary bodies and local government bodies and on the shoulders of the families of these unfortunate handicapped people is only a vicious form of indirect taxation on a section of the public which is now bearing much more than its share of Commonwealth responsibility. Furthermore, if it is one of the wishful hopes of this Government to induce local government to undertake responsibilities of this nature, 1 want to say that most municipalities are now practically bankrupt and they have been telling this Government for many years that they can no longer carry out the responsibilities which they now have to face up to. As . 1 said before, rates are rising beyond - the capacity of many people to pay, and local government participation in a scheme of this kind will only increase the tremendous problems of local government and place extra taxation in the form of rates on the shoulders of these, people. It is, of course, another form of indirect taxation. 
Without doubt this matter is oneof national importance. The ramifications in relation to the wide range of specialised teaching and treatment that must be given to the handicapped are beyond the resources of voluntary organisations, both economically and physically. The same can be said of local government. With the knowledge also that all Slates are screaming for more revenue from the Commonwealth Government to meet their commitments, local councils, voluntary organisations, parents organisations and the parents and families of these unfortunate people whose welfare we are. today discussing can expect little help from State governments. Indeed the provisions of this Bill could aggravate the situation. For those reasons, and for many others, although I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  I feel that such are the implications of this problem that it can be dealt with only at the national level. 
asked the Minister for 
Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What Division in his Department is responsible for export meat inspection services. 
Who is the head of this Division. 
What are this officer's qualifications in veterinary science and meat inspection and his practical experience in meat inspection. 
lt is not my intention to delay the House too long with my remarks on the presentation of the report of the 15th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. The title on the cover of the report should indicate to the House the manner in which air travel has removed all boundaries. When one thinks of the places where Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conferences have been held one cannot but wonder how these meetings could have been arranged without the modern travel facilities that we have today. Places like Nigeria, India and Bermuda come to my mind as places which in the old days would have been considered far out of the way places but which are now accessible because of the modern air travel that we are so fortunate to have today. Such places as Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago were in my younger days legendary places that belonged to the days of piracy on the high seas. 
While honourable members know that the decisions reached at these conferences are not binding on the governments of any of the delegates attending,  i  agree with former speakers that these conferences have tremendous value from a public relations point of view and serve to strengthen the bonds of understanding between countries in the Commonwealth of Nations and the parliamentary institutions in which delegates serve. The agenda set out on page 8 of this report indicates the high standard of the subjects discussed at the conference. As my colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  said, the discussions get very heated at times. Nobody is tied down to any particular range of policy. As the honourable member for Grayndler said, it is an open go for one and all. The matters under discussion cover a very wide range of subjects. They are matters of great magnitude to many of the developing nations and indeed to Australia. As 1 said before, it would be hard to assess the value of these discussions. 1 have had the privilege of attending CPA conferences. Apart from the benefit of touring the countries in which the conferences have been held I have been impressed by the quality of the debates that took place at these meetings. 1 gained a great deal of knowledge from them. 1 think that those who attended the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in New Delhi came away convinced that there at that conference was laid down the pattern of apartheid, lt was evident that between the white delegates from South Africa and the black delegates from South Africa there was such a difference of opinion that at times they would not travel together on the same bus. Because of the mutterings we heard at the conference we came away firmly convinced that the near future would see such a policy as the apartheid policy brought down in South Africa. 
I think I would be truthful in saying that most of the delegates who went to Nigeria came away firmly convinced that the enmity that existed between tribes such as the Yorubas, the Hausas and the Ibos could not be contained and that it would break into open conflict before very long. The day that we left Lagos there were riots in the streets of that city and much of it emanated from the jealousies and the differences that existed between the tribes in those days. So it came to pass that there was a terrible conflict in Nigeria that practically wrecked the country and practically wiped out the tribe of Ibos in Eastern Nigeria, as we called it in those days. I think that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  who travelled to London with me in 1967 as a guest of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association of the mother country was impressed by the nature of discussions that went on and by the manner in which the delegates, particularly from the developing countries, were so keen to learn everything about our parliamentary institutions and to put forth their views on the problems associated with their own countries. So I conclude by saying that this report contains a wealth of information on the attitudes of many countries to the problems besetting the world today and Australia in particular. Therefore, like other honourable members who have spoken, I have much pleasure in supporting the tabling of this report in the House today. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Snedden)  adjourned. 
As one who was a member of the Joint Committee on Public Works when the reference concerning Tullamarine was made to that committee, and as one who was a member of the Joint Committee on Aircraft Noise, I think that I should have something to say in this debate. A number of points need to be cleared up. The first concerns the question of rural land. Rural land in the case of Tullamarine airport refers to the land adjacent to Sharp's Road. Mention was made of the decision of the Minister for Local Government in Victoria. He is on the opposite side of the fence to me, but I think in cases like this an attitude of fair play should be displayed in the debate. I agree with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that, if the runway is to be extended, it should be extended to the north. But, as the honourable member for Latrobe  (Mr Jess)  knows as well as I do, the sewer in the Sharp's Road area was there for years before the aerodrome was even contemplated. That area consisted of rural land. Let nobody deny that this was an area of what was called rural land ready for subdivision. Subdivisional plans for that area had been placed before the Board of Works, of which I was a commissioner. The area changed hands three or four times. Had  Mr Korman,  the subdivider, gone in there and had things not gone bust on him - to use my vernacular - probably Tullamarine airport would be there. The sewer was put in to service a large subdivisional area which that subdivider was going to establish. The sewer was connected to Pascoe Vale Road Creek to service that area and the big Housing Commission area further north. Here was an area of rural land wedged in between industrial land and residential land. It was a little pocket. If the honourable member for Latrobe or any other member of this House had been in the position of the Minister for Local Government, with the knowledge that the Keilor City Council did not object to the subdivision, what would he have done? This is what has not been mentioned: The Keilor City Council did not object to that subdivision. And why? Has any honourable member asked himself why? Because the Council was told, as the Public Works Committee was told, by officers of the Department of Civil Aviation that they had taken care to get enough land to provide for all the problems associated with the airport in the foreseeable future. If the honourable member for Newcastle were in the chamber he would confirm what I have said. The mayor of the City of Keilor told the Aircraft Noise Committee that his council did not object to the subdivision. It will be wrong if the runway is extended by 1,000 feet towards Sharp's Road and that area is allowed to continue as a subdivision. It would be better to extend the runway in the other direction. 
I point out to honourable members who refer to Mascot and its relation to Tullamarine that there is no relation. When the Public Works Committee was considering 
Mascot, if I had not been persuaded I would have been the odd man out because J would not have spent another farthing at Mascot. I would have sought land further out from Sydney for a second airport. At Mascot we are trying to make a silk purse out of a sow's ear. Do not try to place Tullamarine in the same category as an airport in any other capital city. I was a member of the Aircraft Noise Committee and I am sure that other members of that Committee will agree that very few capital cities have any town plan relating to air terminals. In Hobart there is ample room. Close to the airport there is a pine forest on a private area. Unfortunately the pines were infected by the sirex grub and the forest had become defunct, but that could become a lovely area for beach sites and most probably will be used for such a purpose if the Commonwealth Government does not acquire the land. In Launceston the warden of the council said that land was being opened for subdivisional purposes right on the boundary of the Launceston Airport. That area will be developed, but if we are looking to the future such development should be stopped. A similar situation applies at West Beach near the Adelaide Airport. T believe it would be found that the Adelaide City Council has not dreamed of introducing a master plan for the City of Adelaide. In fact, many city councils are just getting round to framing by-laws. This is the pattern throughout Australia. lt is difficult to stand here and comment on the situation at Tullamarine. We must consider the circumstances that faced the Victorian Minister for Local Government when he had to make his decision. The Keilor City Council did not object to the subdivision. Sewerage and other amenities had been provided to enable people to build homes there. Had I been in his position I probably would have made the same decision. The Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works indicated that this area was an area that was developing. If honourable members are criticising the Minister for Local Government for his decision why do they not condemn former Ministers for Local Government for permitting areas around the Essendon Airport to be developed? If we consider the realities of the situation I believe there has been lack of planning. I do not know whether when the decision was made to develop Tullamarine as an international airport the larger jet planes had been forecast. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  and I walked around Tullamarine and I subsequently asked: 'Are you positive that you have taken up enough area for buffer zones to take care of the needs of the people when this aerodrome is finally built?' 
That is right. We were told that there was enough land to cater for all problems in the foreseeable future. I have made these comments to let honourable members know that there is more in this than meets the eye. People want to look at all the facts before they condemn one man who is not here to defend himself. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of electors of Gellibrand respectfully showeth. 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, lo a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution,' page 951); and 
That in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on ; 4th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your Petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Social Services aware that the electorate of Gellibrand is probably one of the most heavily industrialised electorates of Australia? Is he also aware that about  90  per cent of the people in the electorate are the salt of the earth people - working class people? In view of these circumstances will the Minister consider establishing a branch of his Department in my electorate to meet the heavy demand for social services that occurs in the area? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware of the hostility and extreme concern existing among top level management of the meat industry in my electorate and throughout Australia generally due to the manner in which licences for the export of meat to the United States of America are being rescinded? Is he aware of the dissatisfaction and threats of resignation among Commonwealth meat inspectors due to the Government's action in bringing New Zealand inspectors to Australia and working them at a salary lower than that paid to Commonwealth meat inspectors? Does the Minister realise that this action is considered a threat to the wage standard of Commonwealth meat inspectors who have long been demanding wage justice and a hearing before the Public Service Arbitrator to press their claims? rs he aware that the regulations in relation to the export of meal are largely subject to the interpretations placed on them by individual. American personnel and therefore change from day to day and from shed to shed and in the attempt to cope with the same regulations it has cost the meat industry of Australia $200m so far and it is still unable to meet the regulations? What was the outcome of the - 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on social service pensions are finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon the Commonwealth Government toincrease the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate and the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled with take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our petition: so that our citizens receiving the social service pensions may lire their lives in dignity. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  has sketchily described the condition of the meat industry in Australia. He said nothing about the Government's intentions to bring back some form of organisation to the meat industry of Australia. The meat industry of Australia is in a state of disruption from Darwin to Devonport. It is in disruption across the breadth of the north west of Western Australia. The Minister talked about co-operation between the Government and the meat inspection authorities. He talked about co-operation between the meat industry and this Government. Such is the disorganisation that standards of hygiene, inspection and processing achieved at a considerable cost to the meat industry have become obsolete overnight. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has admitted that this is the case. In fact, the greatest problem facing the meat industry today in relation to export requirements is the lack of standardisation. 
There is a great difference of interpretation placed on the regulations by individual American personnel. There is variation from shed to shed. These Americans wield great power and they have deliberately caused chaos in the industry. Such is the situation in the meat export trade that after spending about $200m to achieve a set of standards, demands are still being made on abattoirs for even higher standards. This being the case, one cannot Marne the meat industry for taking the view that it is being held to ransom by political lobbyists of the United States. In fact, there are instances in which the Department of Primary Industry has refused to issue an instruction supporting an American demand. Yet, failure to meet this demand will lose the licence for the shed that does not comply. In this regard, in deference to what the Minister has said, this Government has shown little regard for the industry by refusing to demand uniformity. In fact, protection of the industry by this Government is noticeable by its absence. 
As 1 said before, it is a lack of uniformity and that insidious power in the hands of American personnel that is causing disruption in the industry. It is costing employer and employee alike thousands of dollars in loss of trade and wages. Many of the regulations intrude into the working conditions of the Australasian Meat Industry Employees Union. However, in the implementation of these regulations there is no consultation with this union. There have been strikes and stoppages that could have been avoided by a little discussion and forethought. So far as the Union is concerned, lost licences mean lost time and lost wages. Men have lost patience with the industry and have sought work elsewhere. I would like to refer to an advertisement which appeared in the Melbourne 'Sun* on 3rd October 1970 which offered employment to mutton chain slaughtermen and butchers. This advertisement specified the wage these men would receive and offered a 7-hour day. Advertisements such as this one can be seen day after day. Do Commonwealth meat inspectors work a 7-hour day? Certainly not. 
I shall reveal some of the conditions endured by Commonwealth meat inspectors as 1 go along. Resignations in the industry do not apply only to meat inspectors. They apply also to meat and mutton slaughtermen. This is a wastage that the industry cannot afford but the Government has done nothing about it. As there are most probably 42,000 people employed in the meal industry throughout Australia, some 10.000 of whom are employed in my electorate of Gellibrand, I can claim to have some knowledge of the situation and the frustration and unrest which is being experienced at all levels in the industry, from the top management to those who perform the most menial task. 
I refer to the Commonwealth meat inspectors. It is common knowledge that in Victoria alone there are about 300 inspectors who have from 3 to 9 weeks leave owing to them, yet the Minister for Primary Industry says that there is no cause for alarm. In the same breath he admits that meat inspectors were resigning faster than they were being recruited. Indeed, about 60 have resigned so far this year. If this set of conditions is not alarming, what extent of deterioration and wastage must occur to alarm the Government? 
In spite of these conditions, demands for wage justice for meat inspectors over a long period went ignored. Recently an increase in salaries was granted. This increase was accepted without prejudice by the meat inspectors, but still their demands for their case to be heard by the Public Service Arbitrator go unheeded. Wage justice has not been given to these Commonwealth Government employees, yet the Government can afford to bring 50 inspectors from New Zealand at a cost, most probably, of $65,000. This move, whilst carried out with good intention, was made with little thought being given to the end result. Surely with  Commonwealth  meat inspectors in a state of great turmoil and unrest over wages and conditions, more thought should have go,ne into the application of this plan. Yet in the face of this turmoil and unrest, and in the face of the exodus of meat inspectors from the industry, the Government brings men from New Zealand and employs them at a salary which is much lower than that paid to their Australian counterparts. The effect of all this was to cause deeper resentment in the already resentful ranks of the meat inspectors. 
Firstly, the action of employing New Zealand personnel at lower wages is regarded with great suspicion and concern and as being a snide move to stop the Australian meat inspector from making further demands for increased salary. Secondly, the action of bringing 50 inspectors from New Zealand for the purpose of allowing Australian meat inspectors to take some of the recreation leave which is owing to them is only scratching the surface. It was al the best a pleasant paid holiday for the men from New Zealand. There is further concern in the ranks of the Commonwealth meat inspectors, lt has arisen from a rumour which is circulating that the Government is considering a dilute plan for the industry, using the farmers and farm workers who have lost their farms or employment due to the crisis in the wheat and wool industries. 
Another rumour which is circulating is that the Government intends to embark on an intensive advertising programme, at a considerable cost, throughout the United Kingdom and Europe in order to obtain meat inspectors, yet the Government cannot afford to pay higher wages to its employees. The Minister can confirm or deny these rumours. He should make some comment upon them. It is no wonder that the conditions to which I have referred compelled the Minister for Agriculture in New South Wales to say: 
United States sets absurd conditions on meat and these conditions are politically based. 
The same circumstances caused the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  to refer to those Americans implementing these conditions as 'half trained spies'. 
Perhaps the most absurd situation in this conglomeration of political interference and Government muddling is the fact that people who are managing what are most probably the biggest meat interests in the world are afraid to engage themselves in any discussions with the representatives of the American political lobbyists, although they are prepared to say to me that the so-called American meat inspectors know little about ante-mortem inspection and nothing about post-mortem inspection. In making these statements they hasten to seek an assurance that their names will not be mentioned. When asked the reason for this attitude they quickly told me that disclosure would lose them their licence and that they would never regain it. In other words, they carry out their production under constant fear of and subjection to the loss of their licence. Could any industry operate under more absurd conditions? 
If the Government is prepared to work men for years without allowing them to take recreation leave and to pay wages which are far below those paid to municipal meat inspectors and to workers on the beef and mutton chain and which are even below the wages paid to women in the packing shed who, with a little overtime, can earn more than the meat inspector, and in addition to those anomalies, to work men for 8 hours without a meal break, then I say that chaos, resignations and disruption must continue to be the lot of the employer and employee in the meat industry in Australia. It is a well know fact that many qualified meat inspectors are working on the beef and mutton chains, in the boning rooms and in other subsidiary branches of the trade. It is also a fact that the Government has no chance of getting these men to return to their former occupation unless it has the courage and foresight to pay the wages and provide the conditions which will make the industry attractive enough for these men to return to it. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Will he consider legalising the operation of a Citizens Band low powered two-way radio system similar to that in use in New Zealand. 
Will he also take steps to stop illegal powered transceivers entering this country and their sale by retailers to the general public. 
Will he take suitable action to ensure that the general public are better informed regarding the purchase and use of sets on the Citizens Band. 
Will he take action to prohibit, under heavy penalty, the sale by retailers of Citizens Band transceivers to any person who does not have a written approval from his Department for its purchase. 
I wish to draw to the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  a serious problem within the meat industry. This problem relates to the importation into Australia from New Zealand of inedible offal which is used in the manufacture of pet food, lt is true that for many years Australian meat producers have relied heavily on profits gained from the use of inedible offal in the manufacture of pet food. Inedible offal is commonly known as the by-product of the meat industry. This offal has been sold at an agreed, established price to the pet food manufacturers. Indeed, it is claimed that if it were not for this arm of the industry, it would be difficult to retain a continuity of maximum killing in Australia throughout the whole year. 
The story is this: A big American company is probably Australia's biggest manufacturer of pet food. The company trades under the name of 'Uncle Ben'. It would probably be more fitting if it traded under the name of 'Uncle Sam'. Purchases by this company of inedible offal from New Zealand have pushed the import of this material from 300,000 lb in the year ending July 1969-70 to  H  million lb from July 1970 to December 1970 in Victoria alone. Naturally the reason for this tremendous increase is due to the fact that this offal is being purchased at a price far below the ruling rate in Australia and at a rate that the meat producers in Australia cannot match. Taking advantage of this situation, this big American monopoly is bargaining the New Zealand price against the Australian market. This is creating a price war between the 2 countries which will be detrimental to both countries. The only participating beneficiary will be the big American pet food monopoly. One can be certain it will not help the purchasing public and it will not lower the price of pet food. 
So serious has this become that unless this Government takes immediate action Australian producers will be forced to restrict their buying at stock sales. Action of this kind will place severe restrictions on the present killing quota and will result in the retrenchment of many employees in the meat industry. Indeed, it could be so disastrous to what is called the follow-on industries in the meat trade that the jobs Of 5,000 persons could be very adversely affected. It might be of interest to honourable members to know that there are more people employed in the follow-on industries than there are in the killing section. So serious do the employers and the meat industry employees union view this matter that they have asked me to raise this problem in the Parliament and to urge the Government to investigate this matter very closely and to take immediate action to curtail the importation of this pet food offal into this country. It is only by immediate action that the interests of the Australian meat industry and its employees can be protected. In fact it is only by such action that a takeover of yet another Australian industry by big American monopolistic interests can be prevented. 
I hope that the Minister, can realise just how vital this matter is to this little known branch of one of Australia's biggest industries which is already beset . in its export trade by rigid American regulations that have caused the close down of meat sheds from Darwin to Devonport. I am informed that the American Company 'Uncle Ben' trades under a different name in each State in Australia. I have already had to bring to the notice of the Department of Trade and Industry under the provisions of the Trade Practices . Act the unfair advertising methods the company uses to sell its products. The advertising on television, in the news media, over the radio and in the form of give aways of all sorts costs thousands upon thousands' of dollars and indeed amounts to such a colossal figure that it is beyond the capacity of any Australian company to meet and thus the Australian companies must "fait by the wayside. The Department of Trade and Industry has informed me that it cannot- take any action in this matter. This decision practically sounded the death knell of Australian pet food manufacturers and (his further incursion into the price structure of inedible meat offal supply is ' a ' new threat to the Australian companies arid  to the many people employed by those companies. 1 might add that the management within the meat industry and the Australian meat industry employees union ' are very close on this matter which I have raised. They realise, of course, the very serious threat it presents to the industry. Indeed the management and the union  have asked me to seek a deputation to the Minister for Primary Industry, which I- hope 'he will grant. However, since the problem1 which I have raised has its relationship with the meat industry which is already beset by many problems, I desire to point -out that this is a matter in which the :Government can take the initiative without interference from the export meat trade lobbyists of the United States of America, i 'know that this is a matter that could involve departments other than the Minister's but for the sake of the meat industry 1 hope that the Minister and the Government will have the wisdom to take action to prevent the breakdown that the meat producers fear. 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform me of the success or failure of the Government's crash programme to train meat inspectors? Is it a fact that the scheme has fallen far below expectations? Will this scheme continue in view of the operative Government credit squeeze? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that a Commonwealth Government Printing Office will be established In Melbourne in premises recently purchased for this purpose. 
Is it also a fact that similar offices will be set up in all capital cities, in Australia. 
If so, what is the reason for' this additional costly undertaking. 
Is the Attorney-General aware of advertisements by a national organisation concerning goods listed by name and price and claiming that these goods were sold elsewhere at considerably higher prices when in fact the named goods are specially supplied to this company and cannot be purchased outside its own organisation under the brand names given? In view of this entirely fictitious and misleading advertising, which shows a complete disregard for integrity, will the Attorney-General take action to protect the public against a repetition of this false discount retail advertising? 
Will the Prime Minister answer this parochial question from an undistinguished back bencher with 50 years honorary service in the Australian Labor Party: Is it the intention of the Government to relax the immigration laws of this country to allow Japanese workers to be employed in the motor car industry in Australia? Would not action of this kind be the forerunner of demands for entry of Japanese workers into ether industry in which Japanese capital is involved? Further, if this intrusion is to be allowed has consideration been given to the effect that it will have on the prospects of rural workers, already displaced and about to be displaced due to the rural crisis, obtaining employment in industry and commerce in this country? 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned employees of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth that the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act is inadequate in as much as it fails to: 
Provide for no loss of wages for an employee on compensation. 
Compensate for all ilness or injuries arising during employment. 
Provide for fair and open judgement of compensation claims. 
Remove many other existing anomalies. 
We further submit that the proposed amendments would do little or nothing to improve the Act. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will respond to our plea for more enlightened legislation and act to make the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act a most beneficial piece of legislation in this field. And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the Stales for the needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 I preface a question to the Minister for Trade and Industry by referring to a statement made by him on 21st April headed 'Decentralisation: A Vital National Necessity'. 1 ask: What are the Minister and the Government doing to create the climate in which the people of Australia will want to press this Government into making appropriate decisions on decentralisation? What will be the Minister's plan of campaign? Will he take action to set up a ministry for balanced development and decentralisation? Will he take action to induce the Government to provide taxation incentives, transport concessions and other measures which would induce industry to lend its aid to revive the dying townships of Australia? 
Is the Minister for the Navy aware of the discontent and unrest among naval personnel, particularly naval police at the' Williamstown naval dockyard in my electorate, due to the Kerr report? What is the reason for naval police being placed on level 3? Have approximately 50 per cent of these men applied for a free discharge or a transfer back to the fleet? Will the Minister define whether these men are only an auxiliary unit or a permanent unit? Will he inform me why naval police have to provide their own meals while fleet personnel receive a privilege in relation to meals both when with the fleet and when living out? Finally, what are the reasons for the downgrading of this branch of the Service in the new wage structures and for the loss of other privileges that men in this branch previously held while members of the fleet? 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Honourable  Speaker andthe Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the immediate prospect in East Bengal is  of  mass starvation on a scale unprecedented in modern history. 
That only a quick settlement of the Pakistan-Bangla Desh conflict will make it possible to avert the death of many millions. 
That concerted action by the world community is an immediate imperative. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray: 
That the Australian Government, in order to effect relief to some, grant at least temporary entry to academic and qualified persons among those from Bangla Desh. 
That donations over $2 be tax deductible when contributed towards the relief of refugees inside and outside Bast Pakistan. 
Your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General any knowledge of a company in Sydney called Americana Interstate operating what is known as the Americana Co-Operative Club? Is he aware that this company is offering to provide for $289.09, repayable at $9 monthly, various articles at discounts of 15 per cent to 60 per cent? Is he aware that this company was publicly declared bogus and as a result people who were induced to join the company are being threatened with legal proceedings for failure to meet their payments as a result of this disclosure? Will the Minister institute investigations under the Trade Practices Act to ascertain the credibility or otherwise of the organisation? Failing this, will the Minister refer the matter to the State Government authorities for action under consumer protection legislation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that unemployed men aged 48 years and over applying to the Commonwealth employment offices for employment are being told that owing to their age there is little hope of work being found for them unless they have special qualifications? If these are the guide lines administered by the Commonweath employment offices - 1 doubt that they are - is it not a system of discrimination against the unqualified man seeking employment? Would it be more correct to say that the guide  lines are  laid down by the employers? 
I present the following petition: 
To the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That we, citizens of the Commonwealth, ernestly request our Government to: 
increase, immediately, Australia's contribution to the refugee appeal by 10 Million Dollars. 
press for a just solution to the conflict, so that the refugees may return to their homes. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
As a member of the Committee that took part in the framing of this report 1 want to say firstly that it  is of  great satisfaction to me to note the interest that the report of the Privileges Committee, relating to an article published in the 'Daily Telegraph' of 27th August 1971, has engendered in this House. It is also of great satisfaction to me to know that the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Alan Fraser)  and 1 can agree absolutely on one important subject - that is, the functions and powers of the Privileges Committee in this day and age. It may interest the honourable member for Eden-Monaro to know that, immediately the Privileges Committee report on what we now know as the Uren case was made public, I approached the honourable member for Reid and appealed to him, as an executive member of my Party, to bring before that executive my misgivings on the guidelines the Committee had to follow in order to reach a decision. I pointed out that these guidelines had been operative since Federation and were laid down long before Federation. 
For these reasons I argued that the House of Representatives should set up a select committee to investigate and recommend to this House more modern and more satisfactory guidelines which the Committee could use to arrive at decisions. I regret that the suggestions were not acted upon. The Uren case is now past and so is the case relating to the letter in the 'Australian' newspaper. So it is with the arrival in this House of the 'Daily Telegraph' case that there arises, not for the first lime, a request to examine the procedures of the Committee under question, in spite of the fact that since March 1945 to the present day about 30 cases have been before that Committee. 
I highlight a particular instance of the difficulties which confront this Committee. During the hearing on the Uren case the Committee had before it 2 constitution.il lawyers - one from the Attorney-General's Department and one from the Austraiian National University. One was quite definite that a breach of privilege had been committed. The decision of the other, to me, did not convey yea or nay. I am sure "hat the honourable menner for Reid &lt;vill confirm the remarks I have made in '"elation to his case. 
Having said that, I now turn io the report before the House. In reference to the decision of the Committee I wau to say that, faced with the same evidence  and  working within the same guidelines, I could not in any shape or form or at any time depart from the decisions or decision to which I was a party. 
After having read the evidence, and read it again, and read it a third time, and  not  being able to find a single sentence that could vindicate any truth in the article as to the event it described, I could come to no other conclusion, after reference to the guidelines, than that the article constituted a breach of privilege or a contempt, and I maintained this attitude throughout t'.e whole weary proceedings of the investigation. I said early in the proceedings that I thought the whole thing was blown up out of all proportion, but the matter having been referred to (he Committee that Committee had no other option but to take every available step to bring down a decision. Not one word or thought of mine could be construed as being personal or inspired by personalities. In consideration of the article the man, Alan Reid, never entered my thoughts. The article was my first consideration. Matters arising f,Orr the article were the second consideration. The decision reached marks the action taken on these matters. 1 refer now to that part of the proceedings that has caused some heated debate. That is the decision reached on "?7th October referred to on page M7 of the report. Concerning this decision, it is common knowledge that some person or persons committed a grave breach of privilege by disclosing this decision before it had been ratified in the draft report submitted to the Committee. The report emphasises this very clearly. Now let me explain the advice and the direction given to members of the Committee by the  Chairman  prior to discussing and ratifying the report. Firstly, the  Chairman  informed the Committee that he must read every paragraph of the report. Having read the paragraph the  Chairman  then moved: 
That the paragraph stand as part of the report.' 
However, before proceeding to read the paragraph the- Chairman informed the Committee that a member can move for the omission of the paragraph or move an amendment to the paragraph or move for the substitution of other words in the paragraph. 
Now this was the stage that had been reached when a desire was expressed to recommit the decision of 27th October. As indicated in the report I moved accordingly and my motion was carried by one vote. I might say that at no time was I convinced that the decision reached on 27th October was the correct one. In fact, I called it irresponsible, and I still call it irresponsible in the face of the evidence before us. In my opinion, this information should discount the unofficial report that a Anal decision had been made. Quite definitely this was not the case. Referring to the one vote one way or the other. 1 desire. to say on a committee constituted as this Committee is, decisions would more often be made on that basis. The votes taken during the proceedings indicate this. 1 come now to that part of the evidence submitted by  Mr Reid  relating to the unknown journalist who submitted information to him on the article he wrote. I have a great deal of respect for the ability of  Mr Reid  and with the knowledge that  Mr Reid  is a parliamentary reporter of many years standing I found it hard to believe that he did not know or would not know the journalist who was supposed to give him the information. That is No. 1, as it were. It has been asserted that  Mr Reid  wrote the article believing it to be correct. On this score let me say this: There was not a great deal of effort needed by  Mr Reid  to ascertain the truth of the matter.  Mr Reid  had only to ask the  Deputy Speaker  or any of (he officers present on the occasion to ascertain the truth. This procedure would have been better by far than putting the Committee and his Parliament to the intensive investigation that has been carried out on this matter. 
I said at the opening of my remarks that I carried no banner for anyone in these proceedings. My attitude was completely impartial. I also said that after giving full consideration to the guidelines laid down by  Mr Pettifer  I could nol in true conscience come to any other decision than the one to which I was party. These are the guidelines: Firstly, a writing which reflects on the character or proceedings of the House or its members; I say that it did. Secondly, a publication of proceedings of the House which is false or perverted or partial and injurious; I say it was. Finally, a misrepresentation of the proceedings of members in the Parliament; T say it was. 
I now refer to what created a great deal of debate by the Committee, that is, the choice of words which were so much discussed by the Committee. In relation to this I found difficulty in knowing when an inaccurate statement becomes a false statement. When it becomes false, when does it become untruthful? So again I had to rest on the guidelines laid down in the report by  Mr Pettifer. 
Much has been said about precedent. In this regard, I say: 'If we set up a precedent to turn a blind eye to matters of this kind then I am afraid we make rods for our own backs'. If untruthful statements are to be called inaccurate statements for the purpose of lessening the offence, then the public has the right to treat us with distrust and scorn. Frankly I could not be party to measures of this kind. I say further that to bring down a verdict other than the verdict that was ratified would have been to disgracefully humiliate the  Deputy Speaker  and the officers present at the time of the incident. I have no desire to hurt anyone nor have I any desire to take part in another inquiry by the Privileges Committee under the same conditions as those that applied to the 3 inquiries with which I have been concerned in the past weeks. Further, I think it is wrong to place the onus on the shoulders of officers of this 
Parliament to set the guidelines inside which the Committee must operate. That is the duty and responsibility of this Parliament. 
In no circumstances should further investigations be made by the Privileges Committee until this Parliament has modernised the proceedings and reshaped them in such a manner as to remove from the shoulders of the officers of the Parliament the necessity to set down guidelines and directions for the Committee. We should protect the members of the Parliament serving on that Committee from the unfair criticism that the present procedures invite and give to each and everyone appearing before the Committee a much broader opportunity to place evidence before it. I congratulate the  Chairman  for his patience and tolerance during this lengthy and somewhat protracted hearing. I close by saying that any judge or jury faced with this case and presented with the same evidence could not in true justice bring down any other verdict than the verdict contained in the report before the House. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is the Minister aware of the action of the European Economic Community in relation to the retraining of workers-- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn' to the great concern expressed by doctors at the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children, Sydney, and at the Melbourne Royal Children's Hospital, duc to the sharp increase in the incidence of accidental drug overdosage with anti-depressants among children. 
Can the Minister say whether antidepressants are the most common reason for the admission of children to these institutions due to drug overdose and whether admissions trebled over the past year resulting in the death of 2 children with others coming close to death from this cause. 
Can he say whether the medical profession regards this situation as a new menace in the drug problem. 
If so, will the Minister take urgent steps to investigate and control the situation. 
What is (a) the extent of the use of this type of drug, (b) its cost to the user and (c) its cost of production. 
Has the Prime Minister any knowledge of a report called the Stoner report? Is he aware that recommendations contained in that report relating to the grading and classification of inspectors employed in Defence departments are causing concern and discontent among these officers? Will he make available to all honourable members a copy  of  the Stoner report in order that we may be informed of the implications of this report, which was brought down some years ago and which is considered to be outmoded and obsolete for the purpose for which it is being used? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of theHouse of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the Public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights'. Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other applicances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Could the Prime Minister inform me when the recommendations of the Inspectorial Grades Review Committee arising out of the Stoner report will be implemented? Is he aware that the delay in finalising this review is involving inspectorial personnel in the loss of approximately $500 per annum? Does the Prime Minister know that the morale of technical grade officers is at an all time low due to the lag in salary adjustments and reclassification? Is he aware that the Stoner report reduced 29 classifications to 6? Finally, are not inspectorial grades worthy of sub-professional status? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
Bring to your notice the presence of venomous snakes encroaching on homes/schools (Williamstown Girl's High and Williamstown Boy's Technical) from the Department of Army, Merrett Rifle range, Kororoit Creek Road, in the city of Williamstown. 
Your petitioners pray that the Department of Army take immediate steps to clean up this area to eradicate the infestation of snakes occurring there resulting to date with the death of household pets with the recurrent threat to humans. 
We respectfully point out that the prevalence of long grass and undergrowth is most conducive to the breeding of snakes, accordingly we would be humbly grateful if this most serious problem could be given urgent attention. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Is the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the tremendous economic loss to the nation caused by industrial accidents? Is he further aware of the considerable time lag in the finalising of compensation claims? Will the Minister make a nation-wide investigation of all aspects of industrial and rural industry accidents with a view to instituting a federal bureau to assist industry at all levels in accident prevention and in handling compensation claims? 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948 Australia signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promote a comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the States and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placed in the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the $5 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
A similar petition was presented by  Mr Garrick. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Further to a previous question I asked of him relating to inspectors employed in Commonwealth Government defence departments, 1 now ask: Is the Prime Minister aware that the Inspectorial Grades Review Committee completed its investigations early in October 1971? Can the Prime Minister inform the House of the reasons for delaying the implementation of this review? Does the Prime Minister realise that the 7 months delay has caused, and is causing, considerable unrest among these men who are suffering a considerable loss of salary due to this delay? 
I ask the Minister for Supply: Is August the deadline for rationalisation in the aircraft industry? Is it not a fact that a large number of dismissals will ensue if orders are not forthcoming by that date to the industry, particularly to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories with special reference to the establishment at Fishermen's Bend? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many officers are employed at inspectorial grade in Commonwealth defence establishments throughout Australia. 
How many are employed (a) at each establishment and (b) in each State. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Navy. Has the Public Service Board any control over or responsibility for officers of the inspection staff employed by the Department of the Navy under the Naval Defence Act? If the Public Service Board is vested with control and responsibility over these officers will the Minister inform me of the extent of this control and responsibility? Does the Department of the Navy accept direction from the Public Service Board in the compliance with agreements made by the Public Service Board in relation to the employment of inspectors in the Department of the Navy? Finally, has the Department of the Navy authority to issue instructions to staff overruling Public Service Board decisions and has any other Department the same authority? 
The Minister for Primary Industry no doubt will be aware of the statement by the General Manager of the Farmers and Graziers Co-operative Co. to the effect that Australia may soon import sheep capable of producing wool for carpet making. Could the Minister advise the House of the likelihood of sheep entering Australia to meet the huge demand for this type of wool? 
This being in all probability the last speech I will make in this House of Representatives it could be referred to as my swansong. Having said that- 
 I am retiring, yes. It is not my intention to enter into a dialogue with the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Maisey)  who has just resumed his seat. If I were to express myself fully it would take up all the time allocated to me in the Budget debate. I confine myself to saying, and I do so with a good deal of feeling, that 1 have appreciated greatly the friendship, courtesy and help given to me by each and every honourable member in my 17 years in Parliament. I extend my appreciations collectively and very earnestly. I say with a good deal of pleasure and pride that I can depart from the political scene without any regrets, without any apologies and with a clear conscience. 1 have endeavoured at all times to do the right thing by everybody with whom I have had contact and particularly with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and with  Mr Speaker. 
Having said that let me join the fray by saying that I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In speaking to the Budget I follow the lines taken by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  I too am surprised that there have been no guidelines laid down in the Budget for decentralisation or urbanisation. Some indication of the immensity of this problem is revealed in a newspaper report of statements attributed to the Minister for Decentralisation and Development in the New South Wales Government. The report states: 
The New South Wales Government wants to persuade 700,000 Sydney people to go and live in the country. 
By the year 2000 it wants to create country job opportunities for 300,000 Sydney workers. Amenities will be needed for them and the 400,000 family members they will take with them.  the official plan for Sydney with an expected 5 million people by the end of the century would not work unless the 300,000 workers and their families could be moved to country jobs. 
Diverting the 700,000 people from the metropolitan area to country centres during the next 28 years will be equivalent to two and a half new cities the size of Newcastle,' he said. 
Or you could equate it with the creation of 23 cities the size of Wagga in a little over a quarter of a century.' 
The Minister said he was sure this challenge could be met and exceeded. 
But it will require positive leadership and close co-operation and understanding between Federal and State Governments, local governments and the people.' 
The report goes on to say: 

 Mr Fuller said that over the past few years New South Wales had blazed the trail for a concerted national attack on the pressing problems associated with the over-centralisation of industry and people. 
We are fully conscious of the requirements of the future and we have successfully established the necessary administrative machinery to supply the answers,' he said. 
Decentralisation was no longer regarded as an abstract philosophy but was widely proposed by big city organisations, academics, planning authorities and political parties which had previously ignored its challenge. 
In its Budget this Liberal-Country Party Federal Government has ignored the challenge which  Mr Fuller,  the New South Wales Minister for Decentralisation and Development refers to. It could be truly said that the problems confronting Sydney and Melbourne are evident in every capital city in the Commonwealth and that, therefore, it has become something of a national responsibility for the Federal government to lay down guidelines and make provisions to tackle these great problems. Short though the report is, it does highlight this Government's apathy towards and lack of planning for what is probably the most pressing national necessity in Australia at the present time. 
After probably 12 years of agitation by way of questions, deputations to Ministers and personal correspondence, I am gratified to know that employees at the Williamstown naval dockyards and the Government Aircraft Factory at Fishermen's Bend, Melbourne, if the programme set out in the defence statement made in this House is carried out in its entirety, will have some measure of job security in the next decade. But it has taken a long time to achieve. I feel that no-one will deny me the personal satisfaction I express at this knowledge. As one who has experienced the indignity and horror of unem ployment, I am saddened to know thai in a country which has such tremendous potential as Australia there are today about 100,000 unemployed. 
On the subject of unemployment, it distressed me recently to learn that an advertisement for 48 apprentices for the naval dockyard at Williamstown in my electorate attracted 400 applicants. I am informed also that most of the boys applying had leaving or matriculation qualifications. Four hundred boys for 48 jobs! Is this a case of coming events casting their shadows before? If this is the case at the present time, what will be the position at the end of the year and in the new year? Circumstances of this nature make a mockery of Government claims - the honourable member for Moore referred to this - that it has the unemployment situation in hand. It appals me to think that a figure of 150,000 unemployed in 1973 is not altogether a figment of the imagination. Indeed, so serious are the implications arising from this advertisement that they need an answer from the Government. 
I turn to another matter that has always been one of great interest to me. Much is said today about inflation and the demand for greater productivity. Industrial unrest is another very provocative subject, together with the 35-hour week. I am astounded, however, at the lack of activity or even casual interest which the Government has displayed in a factor which produces the greatest economic wastage, loss of work potential and human suffering in this country. I refer to industrial accidents. There is nothing in the Budget concerning this matter. I am indebted to the Australian Timber Workers Union monthly journal - I am a member of the Australian Timber Workers Union - for the figures I shall quote. I find it difficult to get figures that are up to date. An article in the journal states that reference to industrial accident statistics in 1964-65 in Victoria, published by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics on 18th January 1967 - that is how far back I have to go to get figures; it is very difficult to get figures on this matter - reveals the high cost to that State in human suffering, loss of work potential and economic wastage through industrial accidents. There were 30,315 non-fatal accidents in the wage and salary group of the Victorian work force in 1964. 
That is approximately one in 23i, or 4. per cent, representing a work loss of 114,012 weeks or an average absence through incapacity of 3.8 weeks for each accident. 
In the manufacturing sector the accident rate was higher at 5.2 per cent. The Standards Association of Australia estimates that each fatal accident causes a potential work loss of 6,000 days and that the amount paid in workers compensation claims added up to $22,815,000. To this must be added the indirect cost now generally accepted as being as much as 4 times the direct cost of work accidents. Assuming the gross economic loss to be 4 times the amount paid out in workers compensation payments, the sum of $22,815,000 increases to the staggering total of between $90m and $10Om. Quite a lot of other matters could add to this figure. The article poses the question: 'Can the community afford to allow this enormous drain on its physical and financial resources to continue?' I say that the answer is no. 
Research shows that evidence exists which indicates that many so-called errors leading to accidents have been touched off by faulty design or construction, by poor housekeeping, and by operating practices that created hazards, or by lack of standardisation and identification which so confuses the operator that he is literally trapped into making mistakes. Thus potential accidents have been built into machines and equipment by failure to human-engineer the work place. I know that much has been written on this subject, but actions speak louder than words. At a time when 'loss of production' and inflation' are fashionable phrases I suggest that the Government should set an example that could be emulated by employers at ali levels in both private and government enterprise. I am convinced that, though great is the need for research into methods of production and materials, the need is even greater for research into human safety. Therefore the question of industrial safety, because of its nationwide implications, is a problem that can be handled effectively only at the Federal level with the co-operation of the States and the trade union movement. 
I raised this matter with the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  on 11th April this year and suggested the establishment of a Federal bureau to assist industry in accident prevention and in handling compensation payments. The Minister said that it was not the responsibility of the Federal Government; that its responsibility was limited to the Australian Capital Territory, the Northern Territory, and of course its own employees. He went on to say that the majority of employees were covered by State awards and various State systems. All care but no responsibility. Then he said in his final paragraph: 
At a recent meeting of the Commonwealth and State Departments of Labour, matters of industrial safety were fully discussed, among them the question of a national safety bureau of the kind you suggested, lt was the general opinion of the labour authorities that as safety promotional services and arrangements for the investigation of industrial accidents are provided by all State governments, the creation of an additional organisation at the Federal level was not desirable as this would only duplicate work being done elsewhere. 
This is the attitude of this Government. Yet industrial accidents are costing the country hundreds of millions of dollars in loss of production, loss of life, human suffering and compensation. I say that that cost could be avoided if there was a desire on the part of this Government to set up a bureau such as I have suggested. It set up the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads. Was that not a matter for State governments? But still the Commonwealth Government found it necessary to do that. I feel it is necessary to do something similar in this case in the interests of humanity. Prevention is better than cure. Compensation, whilst needed by the individual, is a loss to the community. 
There are many matters that I could raise and others could raise at this time. However, I have raised the questions in which I have been most interested during my 58 years in the trade union movement and my 52 years in the Australian Labor Party. They are the bread and butter issues. I spoke of these things on my entry into this House 17 years ago. On my retirement I speak of them again. Emancipation as I knew it over 50 years ago is, as an investigation has revealed, just as prominent and needful today as it was 50 years ago. Indeed, that fact can be confirmed in the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  that the Government will make an investigation into poverty. 
These emphasise my point that there is a great need to look into the matters I have just raised, namely, industrial accidents, poverty and what I call the invisible poor. They are those young people with 2 or 3 kiddies who are trying to buy a home at the shocking rates of interest that are being charged today. I suggest that if the Government were to set up a branch of the Commonwealth Bank to go out and compete with the big private banks and the lending institutions, at interest rates that they are prepared to charge on war service homes, those institutions would have to lower their interest rates and because interest on overdrafts would be much lighter, the incidence of inflation would be reduced very quickly and this would help each and every one in the community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Immigration. What action has the Government taken to implement the proposal to have migrant information officers based at selected municipalities throughout the Commonwealth? ls it a fact that all States have agreed to the procedure which was enunciated by the right honourable member for Higgins in his policy speech in 1969? Does the Government intend to carry out these proposals? If not, why? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Is it a fact that the Wiltona Hostel in my electorate, which was built at a cost of $3m, is to be scrapped? Is this action due to the fact that a grave error was made in erecting this hostel on a site between the petroleum tank farms of an adjacent oil company, or has it become redundant owing to the cutback in the migrant intake? If this is so, how many other hostels are to be closed because of this situation? What cost to the nation is involved? What plans has the Government concerning the future use of these hostels? Finally, as suggestions have been made that these buildings should be used for emergency housing, will the Minister give me a firm assurance that owing to the dangerous nature of its location the Wiltona Hostel will never again be used to house people, irrespective of the circumstances? 
That is right; the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  was with me on that occasion. I remember the sputniks and the resentment that I had towards the sputniks. I used to be able to tell my children and my grandchildren: 'Look at the man in the moon'. But from the sputniks came the man who walked on the moon and. as far as the children were concerned it was no longer a fairy tale. But I always called the sputniks great spy stations, and now from those sputniks that are revolving around the Earth have come tremendous advances in the world of television. All these things have been of great moment to the world and to Australia. 
I remember too when I first visited Canberra. It was not in a parliamentary capacity but in an official capacity. I was trying to get the Leader of the Government, the late  Mr Chifley,  to lift petrol rationing. I practically wore a track between Melbourne and Canberra in my efforts to induce  Mr Chifley  to do that. I remember flying up from Melbourne in the old DC3's. Great strides have been made in the field of air travel. One can now travel from Canberra to Sydney in half an hour and from Canberra to Melbourne in about three-quarters of an hour. In those days, we never dreamed that this was possible. Of course, before aeroplanes we had only trains by which to travel. Then I recall the introduction of the European Common Market and the impact it had on this country and, of course, on other parts of the world. Then there were the great discoveries of iron ore, bauxite, nickel, oil and natural gas. All these things have been of great interest and value to the country and I do not think we should end any Parliament without referring to them. I remember the unfortunate assassinations that occurred in the United States of America and which made a great impact on the politics of the world. I recall the Korean war, the Vietnam war, the emergence of mainland China, the closure of the Suez Canal and the Middle East situation. 
So, with those few words, I should like to say that I feel I have been privileged to serve in this Parliament. Having been elected as I was on the Australian Labor Party ticket I took it that I was sent here to do a job and I have taken my position as a job. I want to say very sincerely to each and every officer, attendant and those in the refreshment rooms that I have not regarded myself as a VIP. I have never looked for kudos. I did not look for the honour that was awarded to me. I am grateful to those people who held me in such high respect as to recommend me for it. I have regarded each and every one of these people in this House as my work mate. I have regarded my position as the Federal member for Gellibrand as a job. I was elected on a ticket, and having been elected I was there to give the greatest attention and help I could to each and every one of my constituents, irrespective of their political ideology, their religion, their nationality and their station in life. This I have done. 
I have never tried to harm anyone, but plenty of people have tried to harm me. I go out as I came into this place. I have never tried to make an enemy. I do not think I have an enemy. I hope I have not. I try to treat other people as I would like to be treated. So I go out with no regrets, with no apologies and with  a clear conscience. As I said before, I have done the right thing by everybody. On behalf of my wife,  Mr and Mrs Griffiths  and myself, I wish all a very merry Christmas and a happy new year. Naturally I would like to see a Labor government returned, but may I say in conclusion: Happy returns to all. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
In relation to the inspection duties carried out by the various Naval inspection branches on overseas contracts for Australian equipment manufactured by his Department, is it a fact that a percentage of the total value of these foreign contracts is allocated to pay for inspection duties by the Department of the Navy. 
If so, what is the percentage and how much does this amount to in actual money terms on contracts held currently by his Department. 
Is this money being allocated to the Naval inspection branches concerned with this work; if not, why not. 
If the money is not being allocated to the branches concerned, will he give a firm undertaking that the moneys allocated in respect of contracts now held and any similar future contracts will be diverted to the Naval inspection branches concerned with these contracts as soon as possible, thus ensuring that this equipment can be delivered with the highest standard of Australian workmanship. 
