
 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I respectfully ask that you convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees on their attainment of their high offices in this House. It is customary for new members in their maiden speeches generally to describe the electorate they represent. It is a pleasure for me to do so. Like so many speakers before me and presumably those following I can say that my electorate is a microcosm of the whole of Australia. It has large industrial complexes in the Latrobe Valley. It has one of the richest dairying areas in the Commonwealth and it is serviced by a number of substantial provincial towns and cities. In the winter the constituents may ski at Mount Baw Baw in the Victorian Alps. They may visit the nineteenth century goldmining town of Walhalla or they may surf in the Bass Strait waters pounding Kilcunda. More important than any of these physical attributes are the people. I will return to this aspect later. 
The people of Victoria are supplied by power generated by the State Electricity Commission, Australia's largest authority supplying electricity. Approximately 85 per cent of the power generated for the State system in Victoria is supplied by brown-coal-fired power stations in the Latrobe Valley, from the stations at Yallourn, Morwell, Hazelwood and Yallourn W, which are all within the electorate of McMillan. The deposit of brown coal in the Latrobe Valley is a national asset of enormous value and indeed is one of the largest deposits of brown coal in the world. The brown coal reserves in the Latrobe Valley give rise to the question of the viability of extraction of oil from coal. Investigation and experimentation have been going on for many years under the encouragement of the Victorian Minister for Fuel and Power, the  Hon.  J. M. Balfour. Several meetings in both Australia and East Germany with experts in this field have confirmed the Victorian Government's conclusion that the cost of extracting oil from coal at this time would be prohibitive and a waste of taxpayers' money. However, the Victorian Government will continue to investigate the techniques and closely monitor the economic feasibility of producing oil from coal. I hope that a close liaison will continue between this Government and the Victorian Government. Ultimately the oil produced from this source will have national significance. The contact between the 2 governments will be so much easier for me personally as the boundaries of my electorate generally coincide with those of the seat of Narracan, which is represented by the Victorian Minister. This will be an example of co-operative federalism which will benefit the Latrobe Valley in particular and ultimately the Australian people generally. 
Other projects in the Latrobe Valley area will increase the national significance of this area and will result in a highly complex industrial and urban metropolis which one day will attract a decentralisation spotlight of the magnitude of Albury-Wodonga. The land use in the electorate of McMillan is predominantly rural- beef and dairy farms, orchards and vegetable gardens. In some sections of the community it has become a sport to rubbish those associated with primary industry in Australia. I dare say this goes back to the time when references were made in a derogatory way to 'bushwackers' and the belief that most people who were engaged in farming pursuits were reaping large monetary rewards. It is a concept based on ignorance. Over the past few years we have seen enormous fluctuations in the fortunes of the farmer. This has been caused by climatic conditions but more significantly in the past 10 years by unpredictable and unstable overseas markets. 
The beef and dairy industries during the past 2 years have seen almost disastrous consequences flow from the lack of stability in these sectors of the industry. The beef industry is slowly improving. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics forecasts a rise of 1 1 !6 per cent above last year's disastrous levels. Notwithstanding this predicted rise, beef prices will have to rise higher before farmers in this sector can claim to have a fair return from their labour and investment. 
I should like to direct the attention of honourable members to the crisis in the dairy industry. The fluctuations year by year in this industry have shown the troughs getting deeper and the peaks lower. The real net income of Victorian dairy farmers- the most efficient and productive in Australia- is estimated to have fallen by onethird in the past 4 years. In the same period average weekly earnings rose in Victoria by 58 per cent. If the poverty presently being experienced by a large number of dairy producers in Victoria were experienced by a group of people in urban Australia, we would see State and national media coverage which would make every person in this country aware of the plight of that particular group. It is a sad comment on our society and perhaps on government that dairy farmers have to sell their poverty, their problems and their needs in the same way as others would sell their products or expertise. The dairy industry in this country is at the cross-roads. It needs the help of this Government. I commend to honourable members the relevant parts of the Henderson report to demonstrate the existence of rural poverty in Australia, although the period covered statistically by that report is now some 3 years old. The position described in that report is getting worse. It is only possible for a large number of farmers to follow that occupation because of the involvement of their family in farm work. On a monetary basis for work done, the farmer would be receiving a mere pittance- a pittance which no self-respecting unionist would tolerate for one minute. Shortly before Christmas 1975 the  President  of the Victorian Dairy Farmers Association and the Dairy Division of the Victorian Farmers Union signed an agreement to form a new body to be called the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria. It may be symptomatic of the renaissance of the dairy industry that finally the dairymen are united in that State. I believe it is the first step in what will be an intensive campaign to make Australians generally realise the plight of the dairy industry in this country. 
Perhaps this is an opportune time to draw the attention of honourable members to the value of primary industry to this nation. In June 1975 the Bureau of Agricultural Economics forecast farm receipts in 1975-76 to amount to approximately $5Vi billion. By December 1975 that estimate was increased to $6 billion, an increase almost solely attributable to excellent grain crops. However, the rural contribution to the gross national product has slumped to less than 6 per cent. Some honourable members may be under the misapprehension that rural exports remain the predominant export earner. The fact is that in the year ended 30 June 1975 export of rural products fell by 45.4 per cent of total exports. May I conclude reference to the rural industry by quoting from a paper delivered by Professor Gruen at the 1 976 National Outlook Conference. It reads:  ... it seems to me that, in the medium term, the cost price squeeze will continue and possibly intensify, because the contribution of traditional exporters is becoming less important over the years, whilst the other imperatives of policy will prevent special attention being paid to the requirements and demands of the less protected rural export industries. At the same time, the ability of these industries to withstand adverse cost price movements has been weakened by relatively low levels of on-farm capital formation since the early seventies and by successive exercises of belt tightening over this period. 

 His Excellency the Governor-General in opening the first session of the Thirtieth Parliament on Tuesday last stated that the Australian people have given the Government a directive to bring inflation under control, to create employment and to raise productivity. Others have spoken about the ways and means by which these directives can be achieved and I do not intend to dwell on them. My disinclination to develop arguments in relation to these extremely vital issues should not be taken as a belief that they are not important. I seek, with respect, to draw the attention of honourable members to other matters which will require consideration and application in the life of this Parliament. There are many references in the Governor-General's Speech to excessive Government intervention and the necessity to protect the independence of the individual in the State. I remind honourable members of his words when he stated: 
The Government's long term objective . . . . is to encourage the development of an Australia in which people have maximum freedom and independence to achieve thenown goals in life, in ways which they decide. 
* * * 
My Government believes that adequate opportunities for the disadvantaged as well as the most rapid improvement in social service provision, are dependent on people being free and encouraged to achieve their best. 
I intend to spend some time considering the import of those words. Some years ago a writer described Australia as 'the lucky country'. I wonder, however, who are the lucky Australians. There are many people in our society who give lip service to such phrases as 'underwriting the quality of life' or 'concern for the environment' or 'improvement in social services'. Once one learns the jargon it is easy to sound knowledgeable and convincing. Does quality of life exist in provincial towns and indeed the greater urban areas of Australia where there are insufficient beds and care for the aged, where there are insufficient facilities available for the mentally and physically handicapped children, where the geriatric is ignored? It frightens me when I look at the number of requests that have come to me already from committees throughout my electorate seeking assistance to extend existing facilities for these projects. Substantial funds Will be required. I have no doubt that my experiences are repeated in the electorate of every member on both sides of this House. At some stage at some time in the future we in this Parliament will have to determine not only the priorities of the building programs within our electorates but also priorities within each State and priorities throughout the country. The more difficult task is to establish the source for funding these necessary social facilities. I firmly believe that the federalism policy which has been outlined by this Government is one with a great deal of application in the social welfare area of our activity. It is my firm belief that local government is capable of undertaking and is eager to adopt the responsibility for more social welfare programs. It must, however, be provided with finance from the federal income tax source. Whether social welfare programs include supporting mothers benefits, handicapped children allowances, grants to community organisations, day care centres, the appointment of social and community planners or child catalysts, local government is the tier of government better able to spend the welfare dollar for full value. 
Much has been written about the Australian Assistance Plan. In my opinion the concept, the ideals and the objectives of that plan must be retained. I would, however, disagree with the present structure and funding of the AAP. The AAP was not always assisting those in areas of greatest need. The artificial creation of regions by the convenience of groupings on a map does not offer an ideal basis for an efficient and creative social welfare regional scheme. The AAP could have been more economical and have had a greater degree of electoral responsibility by being introduced through local government. An electoral system is already established and there is a traditional involvement by people in local government and in welfare which gives an historical head start to community participation. If the program envisaged by the AAP is to work and is to attract Commonwealth Government funds, then in my opinion there must be a partnership between the Commonwealth, and the State and local government- a working partnership without sleeping partners. 
May I again refer to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General. It will be seen that the Government is dedicated to a belief that education is a means for individual self development and that we on this side of the House are committed to furthering equality for women in education, employment and public life. Inherent in both of those beliefs is a continued commitment to the objectives of the Children's Commission. We must recognise the urgent need to care for children before school age and to create opportunities for activity outside the home for those who need it after school hours. It is not, in my view, necessary to form and establish an autonomous commission to achieve these objectives, although that may prove necessary with more knowledge and experience as the program develops. To create a balanced society, to conserve an environment, to care for those who cannot care for themselves will require money. There are in our towns and in our cities people who will work on committees or welfare and charitable programs without any personal gain except for the feeling of satisfaction that they are doing something for their fellow man or woman. We must not, indeed cannot, rely solely on the selfless devotion which so many people contribute at this time. If we conclude that the complexity of our society necessitates support to the community from the Commonwealth Government, it is the responsibility of this Government to find ways and means and to give that support, whether it be advisory, manpower of financial. 
Side by side with the curing of the economic ills which presently beset Australia is the need for every one of us to evaluate the effect of our policies on the individual in our society. The Government is committed to provide the individual with the opportunity to develop in the community; to provide a stable society where communities can interrelate; to build a fabric of society which recognises the right of the individual in that society; and to acknowledge the interdependence of the urban and rural sectors of this country. The Government realises the problems which will flow from overdevelopment of our resources and our urban structure. 
May I conclude,  Mr Speaker,  by submitting that the Thirtieth Parliament will be faced with many problems which, unless solved in accordance with the principles which have been outlined in the Speech by  His Excellency  the Governor-General and in this House by the Government during the first week of the sittings, will adversely affect every person in this country for the next 10 years. It is tradition that when a new member makes his maiden speech he is heard in silence. Having practised as a solicitor, trained to rely on the value of precedent in the common law, I am apprehensive of the false sense of security that this tradition could give to the fledgling politician. However, I am sure that members of the Opposition will be happy to assist in our education. We have 3 years to prove to the people of Australia that we are worthy of the responsibility given on 13 December 1975. 1 am sure that at the end of that period we will be reading in our newspapers or watching on our television screens a review of the third book in the Home trilogy entitled  Rebirth of the Lucky Country. 
Sitting suspended from 5.52 to 8 p.m. 
My question, which is addressed to the Treasurer, relates to the imposition of estate duty by the Commonwealth of Australia. Upon legislation being introduced to lessen the incidence of Federal estate duty on property passing from a deceased to a surviving spouse, can the Treasurer advise the House of the estimated amount which would be lost in revenue and the percentage that that sum bears to the total government revenue? Further, does the Treasurer anticipate further amendments to the Estate Duty Act to reduce liability for this tax or the abolition of estate duty as a source of revenue for the Commonwealth of Australia? If so, when? 
My question, addressed to the Prime Minister, relates to the critical situation in rural Australia. Will the Prime Minister advise the House of the consequences which will flow from the disintegration of communities and major industrial undertakings dependent on the rural sector? I refer in particular to the beef and dairy industries. Will the Prime Minister assure the House that the Government will take urgent steps to stop this rural, economic and social revolution? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Is the Minister aware of the large number of inquiries from constituents to members relating to Government policy on the reintroduction of the homes savings grant assistance for first home buyers? Can the Minister advise the House and those waiting constituents when it is anticipated the homes savings grant legislation will be introduced? 
-The Prime Minister will be aware of the general impoverished state of local government throughout Australia. Will he advise the House whether the Government intends to provide assistance to municipalities in the 1976-77 Budget? Secondly, what role does the Government foresee local government playing within the general framework of federalism? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, is supplementary to a question asked earlier by the honourable member for Darling. I preface it by briefly referring to 4 significant facts relating to the dairy industry: firstly, that dairy farmers in Australia, and those dependent on them, face a bleak future; secondly, that the State Government representatives at the Australian Agricultural Council meeting in Canberra last Thursday refused to join with the Commonwealth Government in a scheme to assist the dairy industry in the short term; thirdly, that the price of Australian skim milk powder on the export market was cut back at the end of last week by approximately one-third; and fourthly, that it was reported in the Melbourne  Herald  last Saturday that a Koo Wee Rup farmer had shot 14 cows because he could no longer afford to keep them. Does the Minister agree that these facts underscore the urgency of the need for the respective governments of the Commonwealth and the States to reconsider and increase the assistance offered to the industry? Does he agree with the necessity to come to an early decision on these matters? 
-Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the concern of many members of the community at the Government's deferral and reduction of overseas aid, amounting to $2 1.5m in the current financial year? Does the Minister believe that Australia can afford to contribute 0.7 per cent of its gross national product to or on account of overseas aid? What period of time does the Minister consider the Government will require to reach its policy target for overseas aid of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product? Finally, what steps are being taken by the Government to utilise surplus agricultural products from Australia as a means of supplementing the Government's overseas aid program? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Are reported suggestions correct that the Government is attempting to destroy the cost sharing arrangements with the States for their hospitals? 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. When will the Government's decision be made on the request by dairy industry leaders to underwrite the 1976-77 prices for manufactured dairy products? 
-In the terms of this Bill we are concerned with air quality monitoring- the measurement and observation of pollution and of contaminants in the outdoor atmosphere. The twin problems facing humanity today are population and pollution. One hundred years ago nobody could have foreseen the pattern of environmental crisis which was to develop in our society as we became industrialised. In Australia today we see the manifestation of that crisis in many areas. For example, the Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment, in its report on the environmental effects of supersonic transport aircraft, added a proviso to the recommendation that the Government should not prohibit the operations of Concorde in terms of the necessity to have continuous and extensive monitoring of the stratosphere. Another example is the yet to be resolved problem of the storage of radioactive material and other waste products, some of which remain toxic for thousands of years, generated by use of uranium and nuclear power as an energy source. 
The most powerful agent of change is man. Have we, in Australia yet grasped the enormity of the consequences which flow from our development and so-called progress? There are people in our community, including members of all political parties and indeed members of the Australian Conservation Council, who are genuinely concerned with the environmental impact of our actions. In Australia, economic and physical factors have tended to dominate urban planning almost to the exclusion of other factors such as environmental, cultural and social aspects. Situations continue to arise where environmental considerations conflict with economic and physical goals. It is generally agreed that, in the past, environmental and, to a lesser extent, social aspects have received inadequate attention in urban planning. One of the primary requirements for a healthy life is unpolluted air. All governments now seek to preserve or enhance air or water quality. The Bill that is now before the House will assist in that process. 
The impact of air pollution is an important part of the perception of quality of life. It is a fact that in the past very little attention has been given to avoidance of air pollution impact in planning Australian cities. There is an urgent need to learn more about the quantity and character of air pollution in our urban centres so that appropriate planning and design arrangements can be made for expanding existing cities, developing new growth areas and consolidating existing regional centres. To date, government has only been concerned about pollution when it exists rather than before the problem arises. We clean up after we have fouled up. As a result of this general lack of planning, all levels of government have been forced to introduce legislation and emission controls to counteract the serious pollution problems which now exist in our larger cities. 
We need to develop strategies for the eduction of urban air pollution through urban planning and traffic management initiatives. Such initiatives are increasingly important instruments in the reduction of air pollution in urban areas, particularly since emission controls are becoming increasingly costly to implement and administer. All State and local governments and planning instrumentalities need to take maximum account of meteorological factors and potential for air pollution in siting urban areas and industrial complexes. The Commonwealth Government has direct responsibility with regard to defence, industry, growth centres, housing, transport infrastructure and offices, to name a few. 
We should respect the fragility of certain water and atmospheric environments and should ensure a thorough environmental appraisal before taking firm decisions on policies and strategies for industrial location. In the case of Sydney especially, with respect to further growth to the west towards the Blue Mountains, there is growing concern that this planning must take note of meteorological conditions and experience of air pollution, otherwise the areas could become a huge smog basin in the future. Aside from location decisions, there is a need to place much greater emphasis on transport planning which is tailored to the reduction in the use of private vehicles by organising work, recreation and living areas so that public transport becomes more attractive than the car. We can go further and so plan our urban environment to encourage pedestrian movement and the use of nonmotorised nonmotorised transport. The increasing cost of transport and the exhaustion of fossil fuels should force us to consider the alternative systems and strategies which can satisfy transport needs in the future. The unfortunate byproduct of present systems is the widespread pollution of larger cities by photo-chemical smog and in the congested areas by carbon monoxide. Both of these pollutants occur at concentrations significantly greater than those recognised as acceptable by the World Health Organisation. I must re-emphasise that measures to control these hazards are costly and contentious. In support of air quality monitoring I should add that we will not be able to decide rationally on the degree of control which can be economically justified unless we have good documentation of the pollution concentrates and trends 
In the longer term we must consider the need for alternative liquid fuels to supplement or replace oil in transport applications. There are good prospects for producing an oil substitute from the brown and black coal deposits with which this country is well provided. Experience overseas has shown that such processes are expensive in any case and pose great problems in control of pollution of air and water. If the oil refineries of today are to be supplemented in future by solid to liquid fuel conversion plants we must ensure a widespread understanding of the conditions under which such plants can be acceptable to urban and rural communities. The problems of urbanisation in the Hunter or Latrobe Valleys adjacent to the major fuel resources of this country will be, in part, those of maintaining acceptable levels of air pollution. If these problems are to be foreseen and dealt with at the appropriate time the various State authorities must have the facilities to focus their attention beyond the existing urban air pollution problems which at present consume all their resources for monitoring and analysis. This requirement demands support from the Commonwealth. 
To establish appropriate procedures, standards, design and planning practices for the reduction of urban air pollution and its impact it is important not only to extend and intensify the measurement of the key parameters of air pollution but also to improve the understanding of precisely how each pollutant affects human beings, what the effects of their interactions are, at what levels their presence becomes harmful and how much damage from pollution is considered acceptable. The Commonwealth Government has become directly involved in the global environment monitoring system of the United Nations to develop a means of monitoring trends in global air pollution. As a result of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environmental Program in 1973, a baseline air pollution monitoring station is being developed by the Commonwealth in southern Tasmania. This will be one of only ten or twelve similar key stations to be built by other participating countries around the globe. It will be capable of measuring minute changes in certain atmospheric components with extremely high precision and sensitivity. 
In addition to participating in the United Nations program the Commonwealth Government is continuing to co-ordinate monitoring being carried out throughout Australian capital cities to study photochemical smog problems as a result of Australian initiatives in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development during recent years. Under the national air monitoring program of this Government we are introducing 3 modern and highly automated mobile monitoring units which will take part in joint projects with State governments to develop comparative air pollution monitoring technologies. This will greatly enhance the quality of the information urgently required by air pollution control authorities not only in Australia but also in the other OECD countries participating in international photochemical air pollution studies at the present time. 
Over the last few years the Environment Committee of OECD has pioneered an international effort on policies for the control of the rapidly developing problem of photochemical oxident air pollution. These harmful oxidants are not themselves emitted from pollution sources but are formed by reactions between substances in the atmosphere. In common with a few other cities in OECD countries the problems of photochemical air pollution developed surprisingly quickly in Sydney in the early 1970s, followed by its occurrence to varying degrees in other major Australian cities. The early prominence of this type of pollution in Australian urban areas stimulated the Commonwealth and State governments to take a lead role in the OECD program. The benefits derived from information exchanges between affected countries and the conclusions developed have been invaluable to Australia in formulating and implementing control strategies. 
Australia will continue to support the ongoing work of the OECD on evaluation of policy options for control of photochemical air pollution. The funds appropriated by the Commonwealth pursuant to this Bill to purchase mobile monitoring units will provide equipment to measure the major photochemical pollutants. These units will generate data comparable between different urban and regional areas, thereby maximising the resources upon which future policy conclusions can be based. In my view air pollution in our major cities is a problem that requires a multi-policy approach for its complete solution. This must involve co-operation by all governments. 
The Australian Environment Council has recognised this need for co-operation in preparing the national air monitoring program in which agreement has been reached for participation by all State governments. This truly is a remarkable achievement. More importantly, the program recognises our most important need in dealing with the air pollution problem- the absolute necessity to find out more about the problem through a co-ordinated monitoring venture. I stress that such knowledge is a pre-requisite to sound decision-making by government, particularly on locational questions for future urban and industrial settlement. Planning to avoid pollution problems now is the only long term solution to higher pollution control costs later. In this debate we are considering one of the major environmental problems of this century- pollution. It may be appropriate to conclude my remarks by referring to one of the objectives of the United Nations Conference on Human Settlements, the Habitat Conference being held in Vancouver at the present time. I quote: 
To increase public awareness of some of the gigantic and universal problems with which man is confronted, of the solutions which are available to many of these problems and of the consequences which the absence of decisive and rapid solutions may have for the future of mankind. 
This Bill demonstrates this Government's awareness and I commend it to the House. 
-We heard expressions from the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  who has just resumed his seat, such as '23 years of neglect', 'a growth for growth's sake government' and reference to Albury-Wodonga and other growth centres. I am at a loss to understand what those subjects have to do with the legislation we are now debating. We are debating the Australian Heritage Commission Amendment Bill 1976. Honourable members will recall the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  introducing this Bill into the House on 4 June last. It may also be worthwhile recalling the terms which the right honourable gentleman used in introducing this Bill and in particular the following words. They are words which the honourable member for Reid could well recall. The Prime Minister said: 
The Government has repeatedly declared its support for the objectives of the Heritage Commission. We are committed to the protection of the National Estate. With the cooperation and goodwill of other spheres of government and the community, we are determined to ensure that the principles set out in the report of the committee of inquiry on the National Estate are honoured. 
They are hardly words aimed at creating a smokescreen. I would like briefly to remind the house of the history of this legislation and of the necessity for us all to fix in our minds the responsibility we have to the National Estate. Why was this legislation introduced into the national Parliament? In 1963 J. F. Kennedy, then President of the United States of America, emphasised the need for his Government and the people of United States to recognise the National Estate of his country when he said: 
We must expand the concept of conservation to meet the imperious problems of the new age. We must develop new instruments of foresight and protection and nurture in order to recover the relationship between man and nature and make sure that (he National Estate that we pass on to our multiplying descendants is green and flourishing. 
Those words were uttered 13 years ago. They are even more important in their intent and application in Australia in 1976. 
November 1972 saw the general conference of the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation- I remind honourable members that this was in 1972 and not 23 years ago- adopting the Convention for the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural National Heritage. The preamble of that convention emphasised the threat to the cultural or natural heritage of all nations of the world. It highlighted the growing awareness that our National Estate was under threat. The preamble stated,  inter alia: 
That deterioration or disappearance of any item of the cultural or natural heritage constitutes a harmful impoverishment of the heritage of all the nations of the world, that protection of this heritage at the national level often remains incomplete because of the scale of the resources which it requires and of the insufficient economic, scientific, and technical resources of the country where the property to be protected is situated. 
The terms of those clauses are relevant to Australia. It is interesting to note that the convention was not adopted until November 1972. 
It was in 1973 that Australia established a committee of inquiry to ascertain the nature and state of the National Estate and the role which the Australian government could play in the preservation and enhancement of the National Estate. Honourable members will be aware that the committee of inquiry report on the National Estate was presented to the House in September 1974. On tabling that report the honourable member for Reid, previously the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, said: 
No future government will be able to ignore the impact of the report and its implications for the careful planning of future public policy to safeguard the National Estate. 
Those words, I respectfully suggest, have equal relevance today. It is important that we now note all parties recognise the findings of that committee of inquiry. The present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who represents the electorate of Gwydir, reflected this Government's view of the Australia Heritage Commission Bill when as the then Opposition spokesman for the environment he said: 
The Opposition welcomes the legislation which gives legislation expression to the major recommendations of the report on the National Estate . . . 
The environment and for that matter the National Estate surrounds all of us. It belongs to all of us. It is not the monoply of any one man. It is not the monopoly of one generation, one group, one party, one government. 
That Bill was therefore supported by all parties and by both Houses and received royal assent in June 1975. The co-operation of all parties and recognition of the importance of the Australian Heritage Commission was further evidenced in the intermin report presented by the  Chairman, Mr David  Yencken, in May 1975.  Mr Yencken  stated: 
We have been heartened by the co-operation, interest and support we have received from governments at aU levels from different political parties and from many private groups and individuals. 
These are words which should be noted by the honourable member for Reid. There are many others who have spoken in support of the Australian Heritage Commission. There should be no doubt that this Government has reiterated its firm and unequivocal commitment to the preservation and maintenance of that part of our environment, our National Estate, having asthetlc historical, scientific and social significance for future generations. 
Honourable members will be aware of the Government's policy of restraining public spending having regard to the extremely difficult economic conditions facing us at this time. However, the restriction of expenditure to the Australian Heritage Commission can be justified only if by so doing the National Estate is not thereby prejudiced. If any commitment of the natural environment which would form part of the National Estate and appear on the register in accordance with the terms of the Act is in danger of destruction, despoliation or is in any way adversely affected, the Government must take immediate and urgent steps, on the advice of the Commission, to preserve or maintain that component. To talk of economic restraint whilst part of our heritage is being destroyed is tantamount to vandalism at a national government level. 
There unfortunately has been a tendency of late to label those in our community who support conservation or express concern for the protection of the environment- our National Estate- as freaks. That notion must be rejected. Many honourable members will recall examples from their electorates of prehistorical archaeological sites, Aboriginal sites, historical archaeological sites, individual historic buildings, historic structures, and other natural features and areas which must under no circumstances whatsoever be destroyed or in any way damaged by the hand of man. There are many examples where people have expressed concern and interest. The feeling of those concerned with the National Estate should be respected if not applauded. There are too many of us today who are prepared to categorise those who support the conservation of our heritage as being on one side or the other of the political spectrum. Such irrelevant assessments ought to be abandoned. The majority of people in Australia are concerned with the quality of their environment and are able to make assessments of the environmental aspects of any project likely to threaten that quality. 
The primary intent of the Bill, as amended, is to establish a commission able to advise the Government on matters of policy affecting the National Estate. The Commission is also charged with a responsibility to identify places to be included in the National Estate and to prepare a register. In one sense the register of the National Estate will never be complete in that from time to time it may be necessary to add or delete places of national heritage interest. It will be a resource available to all government departments, to the State governments, to local government authorities and to interested individuals in our society. In that sense the register can be used as a planning tool for the future. The compilation of the register will be the most important task ahead of the Commission. 
I should like to refer briefly by way of example to the United States of America. In that country the National Register of Historic Places, as its name suggests, is concerned only with a register of historic places. It was designed for a federal government system and has subsequently been recommended by Heritage Canada as a model for the Canadian National Estate system. In the United States of America the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 empowered the Secretary of the Interior to delegate responsibility for administration of the Historic Preservation Grants-in-Aid Program. Under that Act the Federal Government could pay matching grants to the States and to the National Trust. A detailed and explicit plan has been formulated to ensure that American heritage of historical and prehistory sites is preserved. An historic property under the United States program may be acquired with Federal Government assistance only if it is listed in the National Register and if the acquisition conforms with the state historic preservation plan. There is much to be learnt from the United States experience and it is pleasing to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  and the Commission have examined this and other overseas examples and are very well aware of the requirement and work necessary to establish the register. 
The 1975 report of the Interim Committee of the Australian Heritage Commission further emphasised the need for close co-operation between Commonwealth Government, and respective governments of the States and local government authorities. It is stated on page 19 of that report that 'the most effective conservation movement will be one which has deep roots in local communities'. Accordingly it is seen that the protection and management of heritage sites will best be developed with the co-operation and assistance of 3 tiers of government. I would argue that any preservation or maintenance of heritage components should not depend on the completion of the register. Whilst I have no doubt that the Australian Heritage Commission will act quickly and compile the register as soon as possible, it would be unreasonable for us to expect completion of the register at an early date having regard to the Commission's present restrictive financial allowance. It accordingly becomes extremely important that the Government be in a position to act on the advice of the Australian Heritage Commission and to have funds available should the Government wish to adopt the advice and take steps to preserve or to maintain that part of Australia's heritage which appears on the register. 
The amendments contained in this Bill are intended to improve the 1975 legislation. Only time will prove the effectiveness of these amendments. Should the Commission find that it is frustated in any way in carrying out its functions I would trust that further amendments will quickly be introduced into this House to facilitate the practical application of this legislation. The Commission must suffer no disability caused by lack of finance or by government inactivity. The very nature of the legislation, its purpose and intent demand a total commitment from this Government to the protection, maintenance and preservation of our National Estate. 
In conclusion I briefly make the following points: Firstly, I hope that in the not too distant future the successful National Estate grants program can be reintroduced; secondly and finally, that reference throughout the principal Act and the amending Bill to ' aboriginal ' be spelt with a capital 'A' and not a small 'a' which presently appears in the definition clause and other clauses in the amending Bill. I commend the Bill to the House. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Has the Government abandoned its commitment to the community health program? How will a reduction in expenditure on this program in 1 976-77 affect Victoria? Have there been any attempts to ensure that funds allocated in 1976-77 will maintain the existing and committed programs? Finally, is it intended that State governments have flexibility in applying their own and the Commonwealth's resources in maintaining the community health program? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it the intention of the Government to table the Crawford report? If so, when? 
-Among the number of revelations which arose from the remarks of the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  not the least was the disclosure that the policy of the Opposition is that the Australian dollar should not be devalued. I wonder which policy the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has referred to recently in his announcements. However I will not dwell on that matter. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  in his Budget Speech to the House on 17 August, outlined one of the most progressive reforms relevant to the relationship of the Commonwealth Government to State and local government. It was certainly of great significance to the future of local government in Australia. 
The Government made it clear in its election policy prior to 13 December 1975 that both State and local government would have permanent access to Commonwealth revenue raised through personal income tax. The Government also stated as part of its policy that a fixed percentage of personal income tax would be distributed through the respective State governments to every local government authority in Australia. 
The Treasurer, in his Budget Speech, confirmed his statement on 20 May that local government authorities would have an annual entitlement to a share of personal income tax. The amount allocated in 1976-77 is $140m. It represents an increase of 75 per cent over funds allocated by the Labor Government in the preceding year. It is a very significant increase and one appreciated by local government authorities at a time when their traditional source of revenue raising would have climbed to staggering heights in an effort to provide basic municipal services and to cope with the high inflation rate. There is a need to emphasise that it was a Federal Liberal-National Country Party government which introduced this policy. The Commonwealth Grants Commission was asked on 31 March 1976 by the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Withers)  to inquire into and report on the proportionate distribution as between States of the total moneys to be granted to local government on a  per capita  and equalisation basis. Pursuant to those terms of reference, the Commonwealth Grants Commission recommended, and the Government adopted, the subdivision by which the  per capita  formula element for all States was 30 per cent, and the remaining 70 per cent comprised the equalisation element for all States. It was to be left to the State grants commissions to determine the formula for distribution between the local government authorities in each State. 
In addition to the untied grants totalling $140m, the Budget makes provision for payments to or for other local government authorities in relation to a wide ranging number of projects and services. It is my intention to refer briefly to these payments and to pose the question whether local government is capable and willing to play a larger role in government which historically it has not undertaken but which it will be encouraged to undertake in future. Other honourable members have referred in this Budget debate to the limited role which local government has in the past undertaken in Australia in the areas of roads, drains, bridges, limited health services and in assisting the property and commercial interests in our communities. 
Budget Paper No. 7 refers to payments to local governments authorities. The various categories of specific purpose payments demonstrate the increased role which local government authorities have undertaken in the provision of public services. For example, for pre-school and child care services in 1973-74, the recurrent expenditure totalled only $4,000. It rose to $773,000 in 1975-76. The capital grant increased in the same period from $441,000 to $5,595,000. Another example is home nursing. Under the Home Nursing Subsidy Act 1956 grants were increased from $73,000 in 1972-73 to the $199,000 estimated for 1976-77. Grants directed to local government authorities for expenditure under the Aged or Disabled Persons Act 1954 have increased from $746,000 in 1972-73 to the estimate for the current year of $3,443,000. 
There are further specific grants to local government in relation to the Meals on Wheels service, handicapped persons, Aboriginal advancement and community arts activities. Another category referred to in Budget Paper No. 7 further illustrates the continued role which Commonwealth and State governments consider that local government authorities are handling with efficiency and which they would expect municipalities to continue to administer. I instance these very briefly: Senior citizen centres, payments to the New South Wales and Victorian governments respectively for on-passing to the local government authorities concerned with the Albury-Wodonga growth centre program, the area improvement program, the national sewerage program and capital assistance for leisure policies. The federalism policy of the Government states that the vital principle relevant to that policy is as follows: 
If effective government geared to the needs of the 1980s and beyond  is  to be achieved ... if the great issues of national and local concern such as education, health, social welfare, housing and urban development are to receive maximum intelligent attention ... if all our resources including human talents and local knowledge are to be effectively harnessed ... if innovation, diversity and imaginative reforms are to be encouraged . . . then we must restructure our forms and institutions of government and our attitudes of mind to achieve co-operation, partnership and not domination. 
For true national concern to be achieved and maximised it must be done through a partnership effort by forms of government. 
By granting local government a share in federal income tax receipts we see a clear demonstration by this Government of its determination to implement the federalism policy and by so doing, dramatically change the traditional revenue source of local government. But is local government able to take on this added responsibility? The amount of $ 1 40m of national revenue is not being granted to local government simply as a supplement to its rate revenue. It is implicit in the application of the federalism policy that local government must play an added role to better serve the communities in the areas of health, social welfare, housing and urban and community development. 
In England reorganisation of local government commenced some 12 years ago.  Major studies  were undertaken in quick succession by  Sir John  Maude and his select committee which reported to the Government on management of local government. The Government in England also appointed a royal commission to examine the structure of local government on a broad basis, including the reallocation of municipal boundaries. Finally, a report which proved to be acceptable to both central government and local government authorites gave guidelines on structure and management for the rejuvenation of English local government as was set out in the Bains report. Many of the conclusions in these reports are relevant in giving consideration to the future role which local government will play in Australia and to whether the federalism policy of this Government will work. 
The Maude Committee brought down its report in 1967 before the royal commission's recommendations had been presented to the central government. Included in the Maude report was a conclusion that:  if as a nation we want Local democracy, the National Government must give Local Authorities a larger measure of home rule. 
In 1969 part of the report of the Royal Commission on Local Government in England made reference to the pattern and character of local government which must be such as to enable it to do 4 things: Firstly, to perform efficiently a wide range of profoundly important tasks concerned with the safety, health and well being, both material and cultural, of people in different localities; secondly, to attract and hold the interest of its citizens; thirdly, to develop enough inherent strength to deal with national authorities and develop partnership; and, fourthly, to adapt itself without disruption to present unprecedented process of changes in the way people live, work, move, shop and enjoy themselves. 
Whilst recognising that the English system does not have the third member of the partnership which we have in Australia, local government in Australia must be capable of showing that it can meet the challenges with which it is faced. Local government is the third partner in the total system of government in Australia. It has responsibilities concerned with local communities. It acts as a delivery agent for State and Federal Government schemes and services. Whilst it is true that this Budget has given recognition to the position of local government as one of the 3 tiers of government in this country, money alone will not solve problems or necessarily improve the quality of service of local government authorities. An improved standard of administration, the expertise of council officers and elected representatives and the establishment of an independent local government public service will take many years to achieve. More importantly, both the State Government and the local government authorities should recognise the increased responsibilities that each should undertake in the federal structure. 
There are many authorities today with the experience, the personnel and the attitude to cope with increased responsibility for a wider range of public services in government at the local level. I submit, however, that there would be an equal number overwhelmed by the complexity of urban growth, the depression of rural areas and the socio-economic changes evident in our society. The impact of urban development is first felt by local government. Movements in population within the major cities and from them to rural and semi-rural areas bring pressure on the social infrastructure of our communities. Money from the Federal Government would be wasted if the local authority recipients do no more than prop up a rate structure without doing anything to improve the quality of local government administration or the quality of living standards of members of local communities.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later hour. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
-The Budget allocation of $140m in untied grants to local government authorities is a significant reform for government in Australia. It demonstrates the implementation of the federalism policy of this Government. It will be seen as an historical devolution of power and not simply a funding mechanism for local government. Before the interruption of the debate last Thursday I was exploring the subject of local government and the role that it should play in the federal structure. How well equipped is local government to handle the added responsibility that will flow as a result of the devolution of power to which I have referred? The State governments and the local government authorities must grasp the concept of federalism and determine to what degree they wish to assist the communities within the areas of responsibility that will devolve upon them. The task will not be easy. 
It will be recognised that there is an enormous diversity in the range of local government authorities in Australia. For example, one can contrast the city of Brisbane, which has a population of 712 500 to the 64 local authorities in Australia which have a population of less than 1000 each. Area also demonstrates this diversity. For example, in the 1971 census the smallest local government authority was the shire of Sandstone in Western Australia, which had a population of 121 and which covers a total area of 10 862 square miles. Further, there is a substantial difference between States in the levies or precepts imposed upon local government. For example in South Australia, under the terms of the Hospital Act, a maximum of 3 per cent of the rate revenue must be paid towards the administrative costs of government or government subsidised hospitals. In that State 12 per cent of the expenditure of the Fire Brigades Board must be met by local government councils in establishing fire districts. In Tasmania under the terms of the Rural Fire Brigades Act, the local government authorities contribute 50 per cent of the cost of the operation of the Rural Fire Brigade, whereas municipalities in New South Wales contribute one-eighth of the estimated expenditure within the local government district. These variations between local government authorities in population, area and State government requirements are further exaggerated when one considers the varying standards of quality of administrators and councillors and the different areas of interest between authorities. 
A great deal of work on the classification of the 880 local government authorities throughout Australia has been completed. The Grants Commission has developed an expertise on local government authorities to enable it to make equitable determinations between authorities. The development of the Statistical Information System by the Local Government Branch of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development, in co-operation with the Bureau of Statistics, will provide a data bank of information of benefit to researchers and people concerned with local government. But I would respectfully suggest that we have only seen the commencement of the compilation of knowledge that will enable Commonwealth, State, local government and community organisations to understand the role that each will play in the federal structure. 
Evidence of the desire of the Commonwealth Government to include local government directly in the federal structure can be seen in the Government's desire to establish the Council for Inter-governmental Relations. The Council will have on it representatives from Federal, State and local government and from the community. It is interesting to note that the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, representing all shire and municipal associations in Australia, has requested the Government to increase the local government representation on the council from three to six. The purpose of this request is to ensure that there is at least one local government appointee from each State. The Commonwealth Government has supported the increase but the Premiers are opposed to it. Accordingly the representation is likely to be 5 Federal representatives, 6 State representatives, 3 local government representatives and 5 community representatives. This has not been finalised. The Commonwealth Government will continue to urge the Premiers to increase local government representation on the Council. 
I believe that we must go further. Professor Percy Harris has expressed the view that a prerequisite for giving local government a place in the federal system is the development of a professionally based and specialised Public Service involved solely in local government. In the Local Government branch of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development we see the nucleus for a specialised 
Public Service. As the devolution of power from the Commonwealth to State and local government evolves we may well see the necessity to establish a separate Commonwealth department of local government. 
Local government itself realises that it has a greater role to play in the government of this country. There has been a number of extensive inquiries over the past IS years in most Australian States. These include the Mohr Commission of Inquiry into Local Government in Victoria in 1962, the Barnett report in 1974 arising from the Committee of Inquiry into Local Government Areas and Administration in New South Wales, the Brettingham-Moore report of 1974 of the Municipal Commission of Tasmania, the first and second reports of the Royal Commission into Local Government Areas of 1974 in South Australia and 3 reports in Western Australia in 1968, 1972 and, finally, 1974 when the Royal Commission on Metropolitan and Municipal District Boundaries under the chairmanship of  Mr Johnston  returned its report. 
The reforms that are described in those reports indicate the general concern of the State governments to improve local government. I would suggest, however, that the State governments generally have been slow in implementing reforms in the local government area. The reports from New South Wales, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania have indicated that existing local authorities should be amalgamated, thereby creating larger and, it is argued, more economical and better managed municipal districts. The reports also indicate a growing concern about the funding of local government services and the necessity to seek some source of income other than the traditional property rates. This was confirmed by the joint steering committee appointed by the Local Government Ministers Conference in its 1976 joint study of local government finances in Australia and New Zealand. This particular concern has been met in part by the terms of this Budget. Local government has been granted $140m in 1976-77. In 1977-78 and thereafter it will receive a fixed percentage of the personal income tax receipts. 
The establishment in each State of Grants Commissions to make assessments of the percentage of the funds that will flow to local government from the personal income tax source will also build up a degree of expertise in relation to the facilities, services and inequalities between municipalities. 

 Mr Martin Rawlinson, in a paper published in  Public Administration  in December 1975, expressed the view that the most likely successful strategy for reform is one which results in the collaborative efforts of the 3 tiers of government and which offers local government strong incentive to reform rather than attempting to impose reform from above.  Mr Rawlinson  suggests that incentives could include the devolution of certain State and Federal functions to the local level and greater financial assistance to local authorities which are prepared to amalgamate and take on additional functions. 
I do not believe that amalgamation ought to be a pre-requisite to any added responsibility granted to local government. It is clear from discussions that I have had with many of the councillors in the McMillan electorate and with representatives of the Municipal Association of Victoria that there is a belief that local government will take on greater responsibilities in the areas of social welfare and community planning provided it has the necessary financial resources properly to administer and implement such programs. The practical result is that the first of the untied grants amounting to $ 140m in this Budget will do little more than assist local government to cope with the enormous inflation rate which has nearly bankrupted many of the local government authorities around Australia. However, with the economy being controlled and with a fixed percentage of the personal income tax receipts going to local government, local authorities will be able to plan for the first time with the full knowledge that additional funds other than rate revenue will be available. This Budget recognises the innovation of the federalism policy as it enhances the role of local government in the federal structure. I support the Budget and reject the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam). 
Is the Acting Treasurer aware of a report in the edition of the Melbourne  Age  dated 20 October 1976 that the Australian Council of Local Government Associations claims that Federal Government funds for local government in 1976-77 have been cut by 30 per cent? Is this claim valid, having regard to the statistical data on which the claim is based? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Will the Minister confirm that the final report of the Commission of Inquiry on Fraser Island is primarily concerned with the environmental aspects of Commonwealth decisions regarding the export of minerals extracted from the island? Will the Government seek to have the whole of Fraser Island classified as a world heritage area under the International Convention for the Protection of the World's Cultural and Natural Heritage? Also, will the Government seek to have Fraser Island classified as part of the National Estate of Australia? In this event, will the Government also examine the impact of forestry and tourism on the environment of Fraser Island? 
-The Bill before the House amends the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Act to clearly impose a levy on whole milk or butterfat vested in State milk authorities. That Act, to quote the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  requires that the levy be used to finance the research activities of the Dairying Research Committee and of the administration and promotional activities of the Australian Dairy Corporation. It may be of interest to inform the House of the manner in which the levy is spent. I deal first with the Dairying Research Committee. The report of that Committee for 1975-76 will be tabled in the House in the next few weeks. Therefore I shall refer briefly to the third annual report which is for 1974-75. The broad objective of the dairy research scheme is to raise productivity and improve and advance the welfare of the industry. The enabling Act provides that expenditure from the research funds should be within 4 broad categories- scientific, economic, or technical research; the training of people; the dissemination of scientific, economic or technical information and advice; and, finally, publication of scientific, economic or technical reports, periodicals, books and papers. The research program deals with the farm, the manufacturing sector, the question of marketing of dairying products and requisite education programs. 
To demonstrate the value of research to the industry I shall refer to one example undertaken by the Committee in 1974-75. In Victoria one project was concerned to obtain information on how best to maintain or improve the productivity of pastures. The results from the investigation will, for example, enable dairy farmers to use fertiliser more efficiently with a resultant boost in winter feed production in non-irrigated dairy farms. It could be argued that any increase in the productivity of dairy products will only propound the problem which has been experienced m the past 12 months with over-production of dairy produce. I would submit, however, that the problem of over-production will not be solved by a cut-back or cessation of research. This Government has emphatically stated its commitment to the value of export earnings from the manufacturing sector of the dairy industry. To compete on world markets Australian dairy farmers must maintain their high standard of efficiency and quality. The application of research findings by the dairy farmer will help in maintaining that standard. 
I turn now to the application of the finance raised from the levy to the administrative and promotional responsibility of the Australian Dairy Corporation. In 1975-76 the income derived from the butterfat levy rate was $774,390 for each fund compared with $802,035 for the previous year. Other sources of income for the ADC are derived from the Commonwealth Government's export market development grants scheme and from processed milk manufacturers. The annual accounts of the ADC for 1975-76 disclose that $1,567,506 was paid from the dairy produce fund and $804,779 from the sales promotion fund. Honourable members will be aware that the dairy industry in Australia at present is in a depressed state, particularly in Victoria and Tasmania, States whose dairy farmers rely heavily on the sale of manufactured products overseas. The promotion of dairy produce by the ADC therefore is of utmost importance to the farmer and all those who are indirectly reliant on the industry. 
What then are the functions of the Australian Dairy Corporation? They are to promote and control the export of dairy produce from Australia, to control the sale and distribution of produce after its export from Australia, to promote trade in dairy produce among the States and Territories, and to improve the production and encourage the consumption of dairy produce in the Territories. In the past year the ADC's activities have been wide ranging. The Corporation has had to operate against a background of uncertainty on both Australian and domestic markets. In the past 6 months it and the entire dairy industry has experienced drought conditions over a wide area of the best dairy producing farm lands of Australia. In the previous year there was a build up around the world and in Australia of surplus dairy products, particularly skim milk powder. 
The international markets are dominated by the common agricultural policy of the 9 member nations of the European Economic Community. In April 1976 the price for skim milk powder trade on the international markets was reduced to the GATT minimum of SUS350 per tonne freight on board with a consequent flow on to depress the price for butter and cheese on the world markets. This gloomy feeling was further depressed by the effect of inflation in Australia. A few examples published by the Bureau of Agriculture Economics in October 1976 will prove this point. Fuel increased by 19.8 per cent in 1974-75 over the previous year and by a further 30.1 per cent in 1975-76. Replacement parts for agricultural machinery increased in 1975-76 by 20.2 per cent on top of an increase of 21 per cent in the preceding year. Fencing materials in 1974-75 increased by 22.6 per cent and in the year just past there was a further increase of 23.1 per cent. Wages in 1973-74 increased over the previous year by 20.4 per cent, in 1974-75 by 37 per cent and in 1975-76 by 13.6 per cent. The Bureau pointed out that prices paid by farmers for their inputs in aggregate have risen at a faster rate over the past 3 years than the consumer price index. To cope with these sharp increases farmers have sought to increase productivity. Hence we come full circle back to the statement I made earlier- that research which assists productivity directly assists the dairy farmer to cope with inflationary on-farm costs. 
I would like to consider the current state of the dairy industry, particularly in Victoria. If ever an industry needs leadership in the areas of promotion, marketing, research and general assistance it is now. Rural poverty has been identified by Professor Henderson in his poverty report and further identified in a number of other surveys. The United Dairy Farmers of Victoria has approximately 12 000 members out of a total of about 13 800 dairy farmers in Victoria and is the largest State dairy farmer organisation in Australia. A survey conducted by the UDF throughout that State showed an urgent need for off-farm income for dairy farmers and further reported that there were no prospects for on-farm employment. These findings are supported by another survey undertaken by the presbytery of the Latrobe Valley of the Presbyterian Church of Australia in Victoria. The presbytery reacted to the rural depression it found in central Gippsland since conducting a survey into the extreme anxiety and discomfort being experienced by rural people in central and west Gippsland in Victoria. The submission was published in June this year and has subsequently received recognition as an invaluable contribution to an understanding of the effects of the depressed dairy industry on farming and rural communities. The presbytery survey found that 43.6 per cent of families in June 1976 had at least one member of the family working away from the farm. I quote from the submission: 
In some cases the family member is working in full time employment in an urban centre. Some farmers are travelling 1 60-220 miles each day to work in production line industries, for example, GMH, International Harvester, Heinz factory at Dandenong. This means leaving home in the early morning, arriving home late at night or alternatively, working night shift, wives have been forced to milk dairy herds of up to 120 cows, and family life is shattered. 
A further 22.5 per cent of farmers stated that one member of the family was seeking employment away from the farm. 
The Industries Assistance Commission report on the dairy industry marketing arrangements, the subject of the Crawford report, underscores the depressed state of the dairy farm, particularly the farm relying on income from the manufacturing sector. In Australia the net farm income for a dairy farmer in the manufacturing sector dropped from $5,532 to a loss of $1,401 in 1975-76. As mentioned earlier, we can see that the decline was principally due to cost increases. In the liquid milk sector the average net farm income showed a small decline by comparison; that is, from a net income of $6,800 in 1973-74 to $5,160 in the past year. The projection for the current year will, in all probability, be lower. 
The  President  of the United Dairy Farmers of Victoria,  Mr Bill  Pyle, recently commenting on the Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures for 1975-76 on Victorian dairy farms projected the situation for the current financial year in the following terms: 
The BAE's estimates reveal an appalling situation. If the position was as bad as the estimates indicated in 1975-76, one shudders to think what has been happening in farms this year, with production and returns both down and costs up still further. One can only conclude that the situation in the dairying areas of Victoria is even more serious than most people m the industry imagined. 
The people concerned with the dairy industry in Victoria are in trouble. The mood of dairy men and women in the McMillan electorate is one of depression, particularly in those areas where farmers supply the manufacturing sector of the industry. The Government has done much to assist the dairy industry over the past 10 months. Notwithstanding that assistance, there is a depression in the industry. 
In this Bill the Government has once again demonstrated a commitment to the industry. Research and promotion demand time before results are apparent. There is, therefore, a long term commitment to the dairy industry in the terms of the Bill which is before the House. The responsibility which the Australian Dairy Corporation and the Dairying Research Committee are presently shouldering is considerable. With respect to the Australian Dairy Corporation, its responsibility is further demonstrated from the Crawford report in that section which refers to the administration of the proposed new marketing arrangements. It states: 
In a previous report the Commission recommended that the administration of manufacturing milk marketing arrangements should be integrated within the one organisation, the Australian Dairy Corporation. This body would regulate exports, act as the agent for equalisation and coordinate domestic promotion. The Commission is still of the view that the Australian Dairy Corporation should be responsible for all national aspects of administration of dairy marketing arrangements. 
The Commission's report went further and stated: 
As the Australian Dairy Corporation is involved in national promotion of manufactured dairy products it could, in co-operation with State authorities, complement their promotional activities in these areas. In addition, if the recommendations for production levy on fluid milk were accepted the Australian Dairy Corporation could act as the agent of the Commonwealth Government for the collection of that levy. 
The Government has a responsibility in relation to the implementation of the terms of the Crawford report. The ADC and the Dairying Research Committee will be able to play their respective parts in assisting the dairy industry through its present crisis. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bryant)  adjourned. 
-The States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill 1976 is one of many Bills being debated by honourable members in this Budget session. I trust that the significance of the Bill is not lost in the flurry of legislative activity. The Bill will enable the Commonwealth Government to supply in this financial year $6.658m to State governments for the purpose of assessment of quantity and quality of water resources. A brief history of the previous Acts is given in the 1975 report of the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development. It states: 
On 11 December 1974 the Australian Parliament passed the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Act 1974 which amended the States Grants (Water Resources Measurement) Act 1973 to include the assessment of water quality in the National Water Resources Assessment Program. Although the original program had resulted in a great improvement in the knowledge of Australian water resources, this knowledge did not relate sufficiently to the differing quality of water available for use. Inclusion of water quality measurement in the program should furnish the data necessary for such an assessment. 
The allocation of funds in this financial year will be the first in the triennium which ends on 30 June 1979. The allocation of funds for the remaining 2 years will be assessed by the Commonwealth Government at a later date. The allocation of the current year's total of $6.65 8m was recommended by the Australian Water Resources Council. In October 1975 the Australian Water Resources Council, comprising the respective Commonwealth and State Ministers responsible for water resources and management in their State or Territory adopted a policy document entitled  Proposed National Approach to Water Resources Management.  This document sets out in general terms the basic principles and objectives which the Council considered were essential for a policy on water resources in Australia. It has been tabled in the Federal Parliament and adopted by most State governments. The first paragraph in the policy document states: 
The conservation, development and management of water resources must take place in the broad framework not only of development and management of resources generally, but also of overall economic, environmental and social planning. 
The policies suggest a multi-objective approach to the development, use and management of our water resources. The Council's statement is an extremely significant policy document which all honourable members should understand if the development and conservation of any part of this continent is under consideration. I shall briefly refer to the statement and then trace the relevance of a national water policy to the Australian people. In paragraph 2 the Council recognises the force of the economic thrust in any developmental process but warns that goals, other than the production of goods have, particularly in the past few years, been given a new significance as some of the harmful effects of the pursuit of economic growth as the dominant goal have become more evident. I shall refer to this point later in considering the Mornington Peninsula and Westernport developments in Victoria. 
The Council's statement recognises the disparity in climatic and demographic conditions across the Australian continent and advises that because of these climatic conditions and limitations on the amount of water available, extensive water conservation will be necessary for development and to maintain and improve the quality of life. Water will be a scarce resource if proper conservation and management controls are not adopted at all levels of government activity in this country. Many of our streams, lakes, bays and waterways are presently polluted. The community is now paying substantial moneys to correct existing pollution. We will require stricter controls in the future. Controls and standards will be attained only if we have measured and assessed the quantity and quality of our various water resources. The Council's proposed statement refers to the management of water. If, for example, it is necessary to dam a river, the direct effects are considerable. Not only is the submerged area directly affected but also the whole ecosystem downstream, the habitat of fish and other wildlife, the farming and townspeople who depend on the water flow from the river; in other words, the total environment downstream. The dam will further affect those land owners whose properties the pipeline will traverse. We then ave the questions of acquisition of easement, compensation and access which often disturb the individual and the community generally. 
The philosophy which the Australian Water Resources Council proposes seeks to maximise community benefit, having regard to economic growth, the impact on social wellbeing, on regional development and on environmental qualities generally. Before considering specific examples of water resource management and assessment in Victoria, I shall briefly refer to the Australian position in the world. It is encouraging to note that the Council's policy accords m general terms with the recommendations of the Habitat Conference for National Action on Human Settlement which was held in Vancouver earlier this year. These recommendations, known as the Vancouver Plan for Action, have been considered by this Government. In relation to the scope of national settlement planning, the Conference concluded: 
Settlement planning at the national level must be concerned with the co-ordination of those developments, activities and resources that have national significance. These are particularly the general distribution of population, the significance of development of certain economic sectors and certain infrastructure components. 
This would include: 
Provision for elements of vital importance for health and survival, especially clean and safe water, clean air and food. 
The Conference took note that in many underdeveloped nations nearly two-thirds of the population do not have reasonable access to clean and ample supplies of water. The Conference therefore called on all attendant nations to establish quantitative and qualitative targets to serve the population and to do so before the United Nations conference on water in 1977. The water conference is addressed to the policy makers of all United Nation member countries and has, as its primary aim, the promotion of levels of preparedness needed locally, regionally, nationally and internationally if water quality and quantity crises are to be avoided in the future. Australia will be participating in the United Nation water conference. Many papers have already been prepared including one entitled  Development of a National Approach to Water Assessment, Research and Management  and another on the establishment of quality criteria for water use in Australia. Moneys made available by the Commonwealth Government under the 1974 States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Act would have produced some of the basic statistical data upon which those papers were written. 
The preamble to the Council's document outlining the national approach to water resources management makes it clear that responsibility for the development and management of water resources rests with each government, both Commonwealth and State. Many aspects of the national water policy must be implemented by local authorities and State instrumentalities. I shall now consider some examples within the McMillan electorate which have relevance at the national level. A great deal of controversy has been created by the Victorian Town and Country Planning Board's statements on planning policy on the Mornington Peninsula and Westernport. The Town and Country Planning Board in Victoria is required by the Government to declare broad policies for the future planning and development of nominated areas within the State. The advantages of tangible policies on future planning and development will be obvious to many members of this House. If we are to protect this country from the speculator, the exploiter, or those people bent on the destruction of our environment we must adopt and act in accordance with a land use and water resources policy. The honourable member for Gwydir,  (Mr Hunt),  speaking in the second reading debate on the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill in 1974 warned the House in the following terms: 
We can no longer tolerate the ruthless raping of our water and land resources and leave the next generation to get on the best way it can. Effective land use policies must be based upon the realisation that there are multi-purpose uses of the resources of the land and the water, that each reacts upon the other with long term and often disastrous unforeseen results. 
The relevance of water resources assessment is exemplified by the Westernport studies. The basic premises upon which the Town and Country Planning Board has based its policies are, firstly, significance in a State and national context of the deep water in the western entrance and north arm of Westernport Bay for deep draught shipping, and, secondly, the recognition of the sensitive ecosystem of the Westernport region and its catchment area. The Board recognises the value in protecting and conserving the foreshores, streams, mud flats and mangrove swamps within this significant and unique area. One of the most significant environmental studies undertaken to date, and continuing, relates to the waters of Westernport Bay and the catchment area, including groundwater. I quote from the Draft Environment Protection Policy: 
This Policy determines the overall basis for the future management of water quality in the region, and establishes water quality objectives for the protection of various beneficial uses . . . The policy will become binding on all sections of the community-industry, trade, commerce, householders and Government Departments and agencies, including the Environment Protection Authority and the Environment Protection Appeal Board. 
That policy was developed from the 1973-74 Westernport Bay Environment Study- the socalled Shapiro report. Phase 1 of the study was a 2 year multi-disciplinary study consisting of some 48 individual research projects coordinated by the Victorian Ministry for Conservation and jointly funded by industry and government at a total cost of $ 1.5m. The important point I emphasise is that this was an environmental study under a conservation ministry laying down a policy which will allow development of resources without damage to a sensitive and significant coastal and water environment. The study was undertaken pursuant to the reference that Westernport Bay and the catchment area should not deteriorate further in water quality- not in the bay, not in the input streams, not in the groundwater. The Draft Environment Protection Policy on the Waters of Westernport Bay and Catchment recommends that the Environment Protection Authority in Victoria:  . . shall ensure the development of a comprehensive strategy plan for the implementation of the policy, using mathematical modelling and other water quality management techniques. 
I respectfully suggest to honourable members that funds must be made available by Commonwealth and State governments to enable such studies to continue.  
The second Victorian example to which I refer is the Thomson Dam project. This was one of two projects recommended in the Victorian Parliamentary Public Works Committee report of 1967 on the future water supply for metropolitan Melbourne. Droughts in 1967-68 and again in 1972 prompted the Victorian Government to direct in the following year the development of the Lower Yarra and Thomson River schemes. Before works could commence the Government required an environmental study to be presented. Investigations, public meetings, written submissions, and a study of the implications of the works on the natural and social environment during the phases of construction, inundation and operation have been completed. In general terms, the investigators found that no major environmental defects would result from the proposed works, although the exclusion of the public from parts of the catchment area of the Thomson Dam is causing concern to a large number of people and to local government authorities in the Latrobe Valley area of Victoria. 
The need for increased water for the Melbourne metropolitan area, and for the Mornington Peninsula and Westernport areas has in a large part been based on the increased per capita usage of water and the projected expansion in population. Although the Borrie report has introduced vastly different population projections for Australia over the next 25 years from those population projections which were available in 1967, the rate of growth of population within the areas to be served by the Thomson River and Lower Yarra projects demands new sources of water. 
The assessment of resources such as water in strategic planning for urban and rural Australia must be continuous and must be the subject matter of constant measurement and examination. The need for this assessment is heightened when one considers the population distribution and movement in Australia identified in the Borrie report. It will be recalled that the report suggested a growth in our national population of between 4 million and 4.5 million over the next 25 years. That projection was based on a net immigration gain of 50 000 people per annum and an assumed continuation of the presently low level of fertility. The population distribution factor of the Borrie report has even more significance to those responsible for future planning, whether it be urban, industrial, economic or resource planning. The total planning disciplines require a knowledge of resources. This Bill and the funds which will be made available by the Commonwealth to the States will greatly assist those people seeking to measure, record and assess the water resources of Australia. I commend the Bill to the House. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK  (Darling) (5.1 1)- I support the States Grants (Water Resources Assessment) Bill 1 976, and point out that it is consistent with my attitude expressed in 1973 when the Labor Government introduced a Bill into this House to increase grants to the States to make provision for $ 13.7m for surface water measurement programs and for $ 16.5m for underground water measurement programs. It was pointed out at that time that this was an 85 per cent increase in Commonwealth aid to the States for that purpose. Speeches made at that time on both sides of the House indicated that members were conscious of the value of having a knowledge of the quantity and variations in the quantity of surface as well as underground water resources. However, it was also obvious that honourable members sought some knowledge of the quality of the water available. Many of them referred to the pollution in some of our inland water storage projects and in many of our major streams and rivers. 
I think it was a source of some satisfaction to most of us that in November 1974 the then Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  introduced a Bill to make available $807,905 to the States to investigate the quality of water in addition to the record amount of money which had been allocated to the States for the measurement of the quantity of water. The Minister informed the House at that time that it was intended to introduce the Bill before the commencement of the financial year, but because of the elections in May of that year it had to be set aside. However, the Labor Government was conscious of the importance of the measurement of the quality of water and still intended to make available the full amount requested by the States in that financial year. No doubt members of this House who are conscious of the value and importance of water resources will derive some satisfaction from the fact that the present Government is following the lead given by the Labor Government in that year and is working in co-operation with the States, not only to improve our knowledge of water resources but also to improve our knowledge of the quality of water resources available. The quantity and the quality of water resources are involved in the lives of every man, woman and child in the nation, and to a large degree decide conditions of health and happiness in every town and village. 
I might also add that the availability of water resources has a great deal to do with the beauty of life. However, despite this, water has been taken for granted for a greater part of our history. When it has been in short supply, of course, people become very concerned and very critical of the authorities and the government of the day. Unfortunately, when water is in reasonable supply very little concern is shown and water is taken for granted. In the past instead of harnessing and directing the waters of our great rivers and streams we have polluted and in many cases destroyed them. I think it must be admitted that economic merit has been the principal criterion in the assessment of our water development schemes. One must admit, of course, that some very good schemes have been introduced on the basis of economic merit. Probably one could mention the Snowy Mountains project in this context. But some very bad decisions have been taken in respect of water development schemes designed to provide a greater production of water in areas where water is already in over supply. It must be admitted that we would soon find ourselves in financial difficulties if we did not give some consideration to the economic merit of our various water projects. Nevertheless, we should be more conscious of the harmful effects of the indiscriminate pursuit of economic growth as a dominant goal of our effort. 
There has been much debate in my electorate over the years on the merits of low level weirs against the merits of high level weirs. It seems to me that we should have more debate in this House on the merits of some of these undertakings which are often constructed as a result of the decision of some governmental department, either State or Federal. No matter what system one supports there is no doubt that the damming of a river has a direct effect, as the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  has already pointed out, not only on the submerged areas upstream but also on the characteristics and the pollution of the river downstream. 
Another problem is the damage caused to rivers and streams by stock. Quite often properties use windmills and pipes to carry water from dammed creeks to troughs for the watering of stock. Unfortunately, stock on many properties that have river frontages are watered directly from the river and as a result break down the river banks and pollute the river. There has been a good deal of debate as to whether this practice damages the water stream. Many people upstream seem to argue damage is not caused whilst many people downstream seem to take a different view. 
Since entering this Parliament I have received complaints on many occasions from water users downstream about a claim that too many water rights are given upstream and that this slows down the rate of flow of a river and often increases the pollution and salinity level of the water. I do not think that anyone could deny that laws and regulations that determine the rights for the use of water can be the means of distributing rural prosperity often to the advantage of those property holders upstream and to the disadvantage of those downstream. I am not suggesting that governmental departments have not given this matter some consideration. Of course they have. But the situation is not to the complete satisfaction of water users downstream. I believe that not only should this factor be given some consideration but also consideration should be given to how much of our water projects should be set aside for recreational purposes. Perhaps consideration could be given as to how these 2 considerations can be combined. I have in mind the Menindee Lakes scheme which has now become one of the great picnic areas of Australia which is used for sailing boats, speed boats and many other things. As you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  water from the Menindee Lakes is used in the electorate of Angas and places in between. 
I believe that we require a public education and involvement program aimed at ensuring a proper understanding of the public responsibility in the use and management of our water. The present system in most of our towns of charging water rates on the basis of the value of the property seems to be, in many cases, wasteful. One often finds that the owner of a valuable property will use up more water than he requires for his small garden just because he has paid for that water as a result of being charged a certain level of water rates. 
One source of water used to be water tanks. At one time nearly every house in inland towns, particularly mining towns, had a water tank. Of course a great deal of valuable water must be lost because these tanks no longer exist as a result of most of these places having access to a good supply of water. So it appears that the better the water supply the more wasteful or less conscious people become of the value of water. 
I believe that authorities should be conscious of the public's right to be involved in and the contribution that the public can make to the planning and management of water enterprises. I believe that people directly or indirectly affected by decisions concerning the management of our water resources should have a voice in the planning and implementation of proposals and that ample opportunity should be provided for those people with information and ideas to ensure that their views are heard. They should have this opportunity not only to influence the program but also so that they can acquire a better understanding of what has been planned on their behalf. I believe that if this had happened we would not have had the tragedy of Chowilla on which many millions of dollars were spent. After public debate, work on that project was set aside and as a result a great deal of taxpayers' money was wasted. The agencies concerned with water resources should ensure that provision is made for effective public participation starting as early as possible in the planning process. 
Another matter that I believe deserves some more serious consideration is the zoning of flood prone land with a view to its orderly management. In my electorate the same properties have been flooded in the last two or three floods and a call has gone out to the government of the day to provide assistance for flood damage. It does not seem to be right that people who build properties on flood flats should be allowed to call on taxpayers' money to meet the cost of flood damage. 
I believe that one subject on which we should have more information and debate is underground water. I believe that the official term is ground water'. In my opionion ground water has contributed largely to meeting the needs of developing Australia. It is the main source of water in the arid parts of our continent. This problem greatly concerns a large number of people in my electorate. We must have a continuing planned program in the water field. We must continue this close collaboration and consultation between the Australian and State Governments and other bodies interested in water, as well as the general public with interest in this field. We must continue our support of the existing Commonwealth-State program of measurement and investigation of surface and underground water sponsored by the Australian Water Resources Council. We should accelerate the current study by the Australian Water Resources Council of the requirements for a national water quality assessment program. We should try to involve the general public as much as possible in these investigations. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What corporations, whether statutory, public or private, or individuals or firms in Australia completed sales of butter to Europe between 1 July 1975 and 30 September 1976. 
What were the quantities in grades and the price therefor in respect of these sales. 
In respect of each completed sale referred to in part ( 1 ), who fixed the commission, to whom was it paid, and what was the amount of commission in respect of each sale. 
Were the sales f.o.b.; if not, on what basis were they made. 
Were adjustments made; if so, what adjustments were made after completion of each sale. 
Did the sales, or any of them, cause the 1 974-7S butter equalisation pool to return any sum less than that which would have been returned had the sales not been brought into account; if so, what sum was thereby lost, or what was the sum by which the pool was reduced. 
When did the Australian Dairy Corporation first submit its Dairy Industry Plan, when was the Plan first proposed, and at whose request was the Plan prepared. 
What is the estimated cost of the preparation of the Plan to date. 
I direct my .question to the Prime Minister. In considering the Green report on the Australian broadcasting system and associated matters and in particular the membership of the Australian Broadcasting Commission was the Government concerned only with the present Commissioner appointed by the ABC Staff Association or is the Government concerned to create a Commission with expertise, experience and responsibility? Is the intention of the Govenment to guarantee the political independence of the ABC? 
It was rather surprising to hear the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  assert that this Bill should not have been introduced in this session of Parliament The alternative is to delay the introduction of it for a further 2 months. That would hardly benefit the rural industry. As I think has been already conceded by the Opposition, the States Grants (Rural Adjustment) Act is a significant piece of legislation. It will be welcomed by the farming industry as a rationalisation of rural adjustment in that it unites 3 separate schemes- the rural reconstruction scheme, the dairy adjustment program and the carry-on scheme for beef producers. However, the Bill introduces a new concept, and that is household support assistance. Part 7 of the Schedule to the Agreement contained in the Bill states that the purpose of household support is: 
To provide assistance for up to one year to non-viable farmers having insufficient resources to meet living expenses and who are in need of assistance to alleviate conditions of personal and family hardship while the farmer considers whether to adjust out of farming. 
It is upon this form of assistance that I wish to concentrate my remarks. Why should the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia introduce this new concept of household support? On a number of occasions I have referred in this House to the depressed state of the dairy and beef sectors of rural industry in Australia, in 8 articular in the McMillan electorate of Victoria, in 13 January 1976 the Industries Assistance Commission issued a report on rural reconstruction. Part of that report was devoted to household support. The IAC stated: 
Farm families can adopt a number of different adjustment strategies in order to stay on the farm under the pressure of declining net farm income. These include off-farm work, drawing on savings, or accepting lower incomes and living standards. 
The IAC then gave an example of the first option-off-farm work. In quoting statistics prepared by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics in a report on a survey of rejected debt reconstruction applicants in 1975 it was shown that 42 per cent of Tasmanians who had been rejected for debt reconstruction were working off the farm. A more recent survey this year, to which I have previously referred in this House, that of the Presbyterian Church of Australia in Victoria in a survey of farmers in central Gippsland, showed that 65 per cent of farm families find it necessary to seek work away from the farm for at least one member of the family. This social effect on the family is best demonstrated by quoting a number of examples which are contained in that report. These are separate individual examples from each family which figured in the survey. One said: 
The worst feature of the moment is fact that while I'm out milking and my wife is working, who looks after the 3 young children until the wife gets home? 
Another said: 
My wife is almost full-time farm worker. This farm employed 3 men50 hours per week. Present employee is down to 40 hours. The children have to help quite a lot. 
I quote a third example: 
Our son has been working on the farm for 4 years but with the economic problem he has had to find work away and it means that his work has to be done by the younger children still at school. Also I have had to find work to support my family over these winter months. Before this we were able to run our farm as a paying concern but not now with such prices. 
A fourth quotation is: 
Without my wife's wages I could not afford to work on the farm. 
Again I quote: 
My son has for the last 2 years been running the farm on shares but owing to the price and the season we cannot make it pay and are both out working at the moment; needless to say our farm is being neglected. 
Another quote is: 
My father should not be doing heavy work as he recently suffered a heart attack, but because we cannot afford to employ anyone he is forced to do too much. 
These are quotations from farmers, the people who are the basis of statistics which we so often quote in this House. I give another example: 
I have 6 children, I have been unable to work my property because of a disability for 8 years. Wages paid have reduced my finances. My son was working for me but has had to seek other employment. I have 3 children under 14 years. Our position is desperate and causing a rundown in my wife's health. 
The final example which I quote is this: 
I am working away from farm, coming home only at weekends as there are few jobs available which I have been seeking for 3 months. My wife and family are milking, etc., as our income is at least $3,500 down and with student children, 18, 16 and 10 years, find it hard to make ends meet on a farm of150 acres milking 85 cows with low butterfat prices. 
It may be of benefit in this debate to state why it is necessary even to consider the introduction of a household support system. I refer further to Bureau of Agricultural Economics statistics. On a per-farm basis, estimated income as at June 1 976 for the 1976-77 year was $7,750 in money terms and $3,6 1 1 in real terms. The Bureau released further figures showing the net farm income as a return for capital invested, management and labour, in 1974-75 at $9,672 net income per annum and $9,194 net income in 1975-76. Those figures drop to $6,545 projected net income for the current financial year. The decline in farm income has been grossly affected by lack of marketing opportunities overseas,. Equally significant were the rapidly rising farm costs. The worst year in the past 3 years was 1974-75, when farm wages rose by 37 per cent, fertiliser prices by 130.8 per cent and interest rates by 62.7 per cent. 
The dairy farmer's economic position in the past 12 months has been savagely hit. The proportion of all dairy farmers without income- I emphasise 'without income '-has been estimated by the BAE to have increased from 15 per cent to 44 per cent between 1973-74 and 1975-76.I predict that the percentage would have increased again this year if one took actual farm income as the base, without reference to off-farm income received by the farmer or a member of his family. The IAC September 1976 report on dairy industry marketing arrangements summarises the current position of the dairy farmer in the following terms: 
Dairy farmers, in common with all other members of the community, have been adversely affected by inflation. In particular, dairy farmers supplying manufacturing milk have been severely affected because the returns for processed dairy products exported have declined in real terms. Recently, farm costs have risen rapidly as a result of inflation and have been a major factor in causing the substantial decline in average net farm income which has occurred over the past 2 years. 
The financial status of the beef farmer is no better. In fact, the beef farmer has been in crisis for not less than 2 years.  Mr Ronald  Anderson, writing in the  Age  on Friday last, 3 December, referred to an internal report prepared for the Australian National Cattlemen's Council in the following terms: 
At today's beef prices, almost two-thirds of Australia's 50 383 producers dependent chiefly on beef have net cast incomes of less than $5,000 a year and are not viable. 
And even if beef prices doubled, more than 12 000 beef raisers, or 43 per cent of those earning more than half of their farm incomes from beef, would remain non-viable. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When the debate on this significant Bill was interrupted last evening, honourable members will recall, I was speaking on that part of the Bill dealing with household support. I was referring to an article written by  Mr Ronald  Anderson and published in last Friday's  Age.  He analysed a report prepared for the Australian National Cattlemens' Council on the state of the beef farmer in Australia. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics figures referred to in the ANCC report forecast for 1976-77 that 13 490 producers with 2.83 million head of cattle, with an average herd size of 210 beasts, are in the category of recording annual net loss ranging from 0 to $5,000. The statistics to which Ihave referred reflect considerable human suffering in the rural sectorsuffering which will to some extent at least be alleviated by the household support scheme referred to in part 7 of the Agreement set out in this Bill. I have referred only to beef and milk producers who will have no income in the current year. That will have personal consequences to the farmer and his family and will flow through to the whole rural community- the shopkeeper, the supplier of rural machinery, the rate collector from the local municipality, the bank manager giving consideration to realisation of the bank's security or considering deferment of payment of interest on the farmer's loan. The whole community will benefit from the introduction of the household support scheme. 
Honourable members will recall the variation of conditions of eligibility for unemployment benefits introduced in May this year. This was an urgent interim measure aimed at relieving the financial hardship of many farming families in Australia. Without that variation thousands of farmers would not have been entitled to this basic social service- a basic income to feed the recipient and his family. One of the new guidelines for entitlement announced by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in May this year stated: 
A primary producer who ceases to be engaged on his property to the extent that his personal attendance is not necessary for the continued operation of the property can be accepted as 'unemployed' for unemployment benefit purposes. Such a primary producer will have to satisfy the test of being available for employment and of actively seeking employment. This involves registering with the Commonwealth Employment Service and being prepared to take work that becomes available off the property. 
This urgent measure was acted upon by many desperate farmers. As at 6 August 2475 primary 
Producers were receiving unemployment b enefits which they would not have received without the alteration to the guidelines.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard 2 tables which give the statistical data of the unemployed recipients of benefits, by State and by classification, in the rural sector. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the decline in funding for roads in relative terms over the past 5 years? Is the Minister currently seeking submissions on the proposed terms and allocation of road funds relative to new legislation to have effect as from 1 July 1977? Is the Minister giving consideration to submissions from the Municipal Association of Victoria, the Shires Association of New South Wales and the Australian Council of Local Government Associations that the Commonwealth Government contribution of funds be increased substantially and in real terms, thereby reducing the local government contribution to this area of responsibility? 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the Minister's statement on foreign policy made yesterday. 
In regard to the Middle East, has the Minister suggested that the Government has shifted its stance? Will he indicate whether a change of policy has taken place? If so, what is that change? 
It is incredible how much time can be unnecessarily wasted in this House. The Bill under debate is a Bill to repeal the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads Act 1964. This does not mean that the officers from the Bureau and the functions they perform are being abandoned. Instead a new approach, an advisory body to be known as the Bureau of Transport Economics, is being established. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  made it clear in his second reading speech that the present functions of both the old Bureau of Roads and the old Bureau of Transport Economics would continue. Briefly stated, those functions are: firstly, in consultation with the State governments and local government authorities to continue the study of roads in Australia and to report to the Minister, a function that will not change; and secondly, to consider policy aimed at the reduction of transport costs, the improvement of transport efficiency and the rationalisation of transport facilities, planning and administrative procedures. The secondary function of the new 
Bureau of Transport Economics will be to assist Commonwealth, State and local government authorities and instrumentalities on all matters relating to transport planning and the development of all transport modes in this country. 
I would like to consider the various objections which have been made by a number of responsible and interested bodies against the amalgamation of these 2 bureaus. If the new Bureau of Transport economics is to function effectively, it is important that its critics are satisfied that their several commentaries have been answered. I will deal with representations which have been submitted by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations, the Australian Road Federation and the Municipal Association of Victoria. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations believes that to maintain the Bureau's standard and role as an independent and autonomous adviser to the Commonwealth Government the following criteria should be adopted: The new Bureau should be established by an Act of Parliament as was the old Bureau of Roads in 1964; the new Bureau of Transport Economics should not be incorporated within the Department of Transport; any advice or commentary should be direct to the Minister for Transport and not through the department head; and finally, all of the previous functions of the bureau of roads should be incorporated in the functions of the new Bureau and specifically stated in the proposed new legislation. The Municipal Association of Victoria endorses the main thrust of the Council's arguments that the new Bureau must be independent and seem to be autonomous; further, that the new Bureau ought to be established under Commonwealth legislation. The Australian Road Federation bases its objection on one basic premise which is shared by the other 2 bodies, and that is its belief that the new Bureau 'cannot perform its essential role as a minor part of a major government department '. 
Time does not allow me the opportunity of a detailed analysis of the various arguments which are advanced by these 3 bodies in support of their respective cases. The Municipal Association of Victoria refers to the Bureau of Roads report of 1975 and to the basic objectives pursued by the old Bureau for the past 10 years. Those objectives were aimed at obtaining a safe, efficient and convenient road transportation system to meet the present and changing needs, requirements and preferences of the nation. Those objectives are protected in the assurances which the Minister gave to the House in his second reading speech. I now quote a number of statements and assurances from the Minister. He said: 
The independence of the BTE's advice and its Director's free access to me as Minister are established facts. There will certainly be no erosion of these rights as a result of amalgamation. The new body will act as  indepenently  in undertaking research and supplying advice as the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads and the BTE have in the past. 
The Minister further assured the House: 
The new body will continue the present functions of both the present Bureaus. 
He further stated: 
There will be no restriction by the Department of Transport or any other Commonwealth department on the work or advices of the Bureau. Its offices will be as freely available to State, local governments, private enterprises and individuals as at present. 
He also said: 
The present BTE is not established by legislation but is attached to the Department of Transport. As I have already said, no one has ever questioned the integrity or the independence of the BTE. It has always operated with the same degree of autonomy that the Bureau of Roads has enjoyed. 
I believe that those assurances from the Minister answer the several objections which have been raised around Australia against the amalgamation. However, I would respectfully request the Minister to ensure a continual and persistent monitoring of the operation of the new Bureau to make certain that its independence is maintained and the quality of its advice is not reduced by virtue of its position within the Department of Transport. 
I turn now to consider one of the major functions of the Bureau of Transport Economics and I refer here to the future planning of transport in this country. Governments at all levels, professional planners and sociologists all are aware of the impact on our environment of the movement of people. I have no doubt that the professional planners within the Bureau of Transport Economics and the Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development are well aware of the consequences which flow from the complexity of our present urban society. Many of our country areas are undergoing revolutionary changes in the pattern of land use, the distribution of people and the size and character of rural towns and cities. The first report from the Australian Population and Immigration Council produced evidence which requires a total reappraisal of the plans for the future development of our major cities, of growth centres and of population distribution and redistribution. 
The physical infrastructure required for urban development is costly. The social infrastructure for a community also is expensive. Some would argue that social facilities are more important for the development of the community than the supply of the physical infrastructure, such as sewerage, roads, power and public transport. If, however, we are to ask the Bureau of Transport Economics to play its part in planning or advising on the future shape of our urban society it must have available to it all the relevant expertise which is necessary to create an environment which will allow the majority of citizens to fulfill their ambitions as members of the community. Accordingly, the Bureau will take note of population trends away from the major cities in this country. It will avail itself of information which indicates that the growing use of drugs and alcohol causes approximately 50 per cent of all deaths from road accidents and that the cost of operating motor vehicles may ultimately cause a major move to the use of public transport. The Bureau also will take account of sociological studies of the impact of freeways on the built environment. It must recognise that personalised automated transport systems may be built into Australian cities and between cities. These and many other aspects of life in the latter part of the twentieth century will have significance in the future planning of transport requirements in Australia. 
The old Bureau of Transport Economics carried out a number of wide ranging studies on airports, harbours, public transport systems and shipping but because no one mode of transport can be compartmentalised the old Bureau of Transport Economics necessarily overlapped areas of responsibility of the Bureau of Roads. In the light of this approach to the future planning of our communities the amalgamation of the 2 Bureaus appeared inevitable. Those working in the Bureau must not, however, be locked into an ivory tower. To properly advise the Minister and therefore this Government it will be imperative that the Bureau confer with other Commonwealth and State departments and instrumentalities and organisations and individuals in the private sector. It would appear that problems already have been encountered in the establishment of strategic planning committees with representatives from all levels of government. I submit that if total planning is not undertaken now we will repeat the many mistakes already seen in the development of this country to date and the mistakes made in other developing countries. Not only must we apply the lessons learnt from the past but also we must create the mechanism which is necessary to act quickly on advice which has identified past mistakes or future benefits. 
The multi-modal approach to transport was recognised by the past  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads,  Mr H.  T. Loxton, as recently as 7 March 1977.  Mr Loxton  gave evidence to the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its inquiry into the urban environment. He said: 
Our suggestion is, that if we can start by bringing all transport together in each State, so that this can be looked at by the State and the Commonwealth together then we are starting on the process of getting some co-ordinated plan. The urban area is an extremely complex area. I think all our information leads us to the belief that you cannot really look at any single project in an urban area on its own. 
Worldwide evidence suggests that the conflict between cars and cities in its more acute and unplanned forms has led to congestion, pollution and the dehumanising of community life for large sections of the community. Overseas experience suggests that attempts to eliminate traffic jams through building more highways are far from a panacea and that public transport solutions have only partly met community requirements. On the other hand, innovative and thoughtful development of transport policy in both existing and newly planned cities has led to transportation networks which offer communities well located jobs, housing and services. Reconciling the automobile with its surroundings and assuring everyone access to high quality public transportation is recognised as an essential element of future transportation policy. The pursuit of purely transport efficiency rather than effectiveness criteria will inevitably lead to conflict between transport and the community to the detriment of the community at large. 
Preference for the automobile over public transport has resulted from a variety of physical, financial and psychological factors. A car is a means of escaping from the city, of finding a home where land is less costly, and of expanding the opportunity to find a job. On the other hand, public transport in Australia has offered increasingly poor services as competition with the automobile has caused chronic financial difficulties. The industry has lost travellers, and patronage in the 1970s was less than it was in the early 1950s, despite the gains in urban population that have added potential customers. Public policy in Australia supports the automotive revolution through extensive outlays on streets, highways and freeways. In 1975 public sector capital investment for transportation by all units of government has been estimated at $ 1,000m, or $80 per capita, and over $788m of that was spent on roads and streets. These outlays reflect the degree of dependence on highways for freight and passenger movement in Australia and the amount of influence public policy has had on how the nation's transportation system has developed. 
Despite the efforts to accommodate motor vehicles in cities, for millions of Australians commuting by automobiles is a headache, and often there is no other convenient choice. The lack of satisfactory service by either car or transit exposes people twice daily to the congestion and tension that have come to be an accepted condition of urban living. It has been considered that maintaining a mimimum acceptable environment for the big cities of the advanced Western nations, including Australia, in the last third of the 20th century is an awesome challenge. I have no doubt that the Bureau will meet that challenge. The real test will depend on governmentFederal, State and local. We must plan totally and implement policies which are intelligent, policies which take note of the desire for quality of urban and rural life and the use of energy resources. 
For Australia transportation solutions in the future will inevitably be bound up with the development of new urban communities and the redevelopment of existing cities. Discovering solutions to the transportation problems of cities calls for a broader view of transportation as a sub-system of the larger system of urban living in which the origins and destinations of travel are subject to manipulation. It is in our power to arrive at urban transport solutions by changing the nature of the problem. Planned communities, by rejecting the outdated concept of separating urban life into compartments by zoning, have demonstrated that the transportation problem can be contained by focusing on nontransportation solutions that emphasise accessibility rather than movement. Urban design and environment are the means of reconciling city and car and reorienting public transit. Equally significantly, transportation can help to create the urban designs and environmental changes necessary to make the transport system work. In both new and redeveloped cities conventional street systems can be transformed to space saving patterns that make room for public parks and playgrounds, pedestrian oriented shopping centres, the multi-block urban complex containing housing, office space, recreation areas, and the new industrial estates and parklands. 
The question is whether the urban growth to come will be allowed to happen without forethought or whether it will be planned for pleasant and efficient living. Transportation capabilities provide powerful tools for rebuilding obsolete cities, moving out of the old congestion, and taking possession of the land for new patterns of urban living. If we opt for unplanned cities and unbridled use of cars, the traffic jam will be absolute and the environment intolerable. However, co-ordination and integration of planned urban systems and their transportation sub-systems will yield many types of new cities, large and small, with varying mixtures of transportation. But the city built for urban man will maximise the ability to move while minimising the need for unnecessary motion, and in the process will use the transport system to further the goals of the community. The basic objectives will be housing, public services, and environment. They will allow people to live well and not just to move better. They will create not only a mobile population but also an accessible city. This revised approach to transport offers significant potential for reducing the massive level of investment and thus demands made on government. 
Future Commonwealth policies will require careful consideration of overseas experience. Since almost 70 per cent of Australians already live in established cities, it is important to recognise that a primary task for transportation policy is to help in the redevelopment and reconditioning of the existing environment. The prospects for doing so are strengthened by the fact that so much of the urban area is absorbed by streets and because, as many urban redevelopment projects reveal, street space can be effectively used to create new neighbourhood patterns and more efficient organisation of the community. The space devoted to streets usually represents the largest portion of publicly owned urban land. That is a matter that is likely to receive attention in the proposed Commonwealth land costs inquiry. In Australia, where 25 per cent to 30 per cent of the cityscape is comprised of streets, the combination of roadways and parking facilities in central areas may absorb more than half of the available space. These are the parts of the city most readily subject to public efforts to change the environment. They are also the areas seen and used the most, and their improvement, when combined with other projects, can accomplish major redevelopment. 
Combining transportation with other development programs through the use of air rights over highways is also a means of supplying needed space at economical prices and of overcoming the unwanted environmental effects of expressways. Future transportation policies will require recognition that transportation is not an end in itself but is integrally related to community development. Solutions to transportation problems may not necessarily lie within transportation technology and pricing. The forces behind the demand for movement are complex and subject to manipulation. An understanding of these complexities and their inter-relationships in an Australian context is fundamental to the development of transportation policies. 
I conclude by reiterating that the Bureau of Transport Economics will be of value to this Government and to those who will seek its advice and assistance only if it retains its independence. We are assured by the Minister that that will be so. Accordingly I have no reason to doubt that the credibility and value of the Bureau will continue into the future in the same way as the value of its 2 predecessors was recognised in the past. I commend the Bill to the House. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
Were approximately 18 000 tonnes of butter sold to Europe in about June 1975 from stocks held as at 30 June 1975. If so, to which countries and at what tonnage were the sales transacted. 
Who effected the sale, what commission was fixed, and to what companies was it paid. 
Was the sale made on any basis other than f.o.b. If so, on what basis. 
What price adjustments were made to cover any additional costs over and above those normally incurred with f.o.b. sales. 
If no price adjustments were made, how were those additional costs met. 
Did the terms of any ofthe sales cause the 1974-75 butter equalisation pool to be adversely affected and, as a result, able to return less than it otherwise should have done. 
Was the deficit of $lm estimated by the Commonwealth Dairy Produce Equalisation Committee Ltd for the 1974-75 butter equalisation pool accurate. 
Have any moneys from the Dairying Industry Stabilisation Fund been used to support the 1974-75 butter equalisation pool. If so, what amount was applied. 
Has the 1974-75 butter equalisation pool been finalised. If not, when will the computation be completed and the distribution finalised. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. He will be aware that Parliament has passed legislation providing funds for construction of the engineering school at the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education and that a decision has been made to defer commencement of the works pending the outcome of the inquiry in Victoria into post-secondary education. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the adverse effects being experienced by the Institute, and in particular by the students, resulting from the delay in construction of the engineering school? Will the Minister advise the precise timetable leading up to the construction commencement date to ensure that the doubts which presently exist are removed? 
Will he confirm that the sum of $2.5m scheduled in the relevant Act is in no way in jeopardy pending the decision of the Newman committee and the Commonwealth Tertiary Education Commission? Finally, will the Minister confirm that additional moneys will be available to cover the increased construction costs caused by the delay? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Why was it necessary to introduce revised tax averaging procedures for farmers? 
-In listening to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  I sometimes wonder whether we are talking about the same local government system and indeed whether we are talking about the same Commonwealth of Australia. It is a favourite tack of the Opposition, particularly of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, always to incorporate funds which were made available for a temporary scheme introduced by the previous Government, namely the Regional Employment Development scheme. The Opposition when it was in power recognised it as a temporary scheme. In fact the RED scheme ceased during the time of the previous government. Yet members of the Opposition keep trotting out these figures to indicate that the Government has cut back expenditure in the local government area. 
The honourable member for Reid also suggested that he rejects the philosophy underlying the Bill. I am not surprised that he does reject that. The fact is that the legislation provides for a very successful program of funding to local government by way of untied grants. Such a program has not been undertaken previously. This is a scheme whereby local government is now assured of a guaranteed percentage of income tax collections. The scheme is working very successfully. The honourable member should take the trouble to go around and test the market, as it were, by speaking to local government authorities. Certainly in my experience local government is extremely happy with the funds that are coming from this Government under the federalism scheme. 
I turn to the Bill. Through this Bill the Government is again demonstrating its commitment to join local government into the general fabric of a federal government system in Australia. A great deal of work is being done through the Australian Constitutional Convention and through the Advisory Council for Intergovernmental Relations to place local government into the federal framework. It is not a concept being improved by the Commonwealth Government. Local government seeks to play a contributing role in one of the three areas of government in Australia. The Australian Council of Local Government Associations in its submission to the Australian Constitutional Convention in 1976 stated: 
Local government sees its role for the future as a full and effective working partner in a system of government consisting of three levels. The local government proposals, therefore, seek to secure the constitutional recognition of local government; status to enable local government to work with the other two partners in government; and the creation of a sound financial structure to enable the fulfilment of local government's responsibilities. 
I would submit that local government will play a greater role as a partner in government only if it receives adequate finance which will enable it to expand its area of responsibility. One of the conclusions reached by the joint study into local government finance in Australia and New Zealand, which was referred to by the honourable member for Sturt, concluded: 
Local government has a greater functional role in New South Wales, Queensland and New Zealand but has a somewhat lesser place in a functional sense in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania. In these latter States local government has remained for the most part tied to its traditional property based functions and some State agency services. 
It is also clear that many municipalities are entering the field of personal services. This is evidenced by a growing number of personnel on municipal staffs concerned with community development and planning, recreation, youth, elderly citizens and areas that are other than the historic property service area. 
The joint study referred to further concluded that on the basis of international comparisons the total load of taxation in Australia is far from the highest while, further, growth in personal incomes has been running ahead of prices. Nevertheless, it is acknowledged that rates are the only tax which local government has, the tax is highly sensitive in the manner in which it is set, and as a single tax it lacks the flexibility which other governments have with a range of taxes. That report was completed in 1 976. 
We in the Government have helped to expand local government financial resources by giving untied grants derived from a share in Commonwealth income tax collections. Currently local government receives 1.52 per cent of these receipts and will shortly begin a campaign to have that percentage increased to 2 per cent. At this stage I wish to record a question which arose in my mind, namely, whether local government is in fact taxing as high as it ought to through its property rating resource? I hasten to add that I am well aware of the difficulties which rural municipalities in particular have experienced over the past three or four years. It is clear that many municipalities used the untied grants from the Federal Government in 1976-77 to prop up their rating structure, thus removing the necessity to increase rates at a time when many rural areas were suffering as a result of drought or the general depression. Notwithstanding that situation, however, the fact remains that local government taxing is comparatively low. I would like to draw to the attention of the House to the position in America and Canada. A paper prepared by  Mr Wilfred  Prest, which was reprinted for private circulation from the  Australian Economic Papers,  entitled 'Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations: Some Implications for Australia of Recent Developments in the United States of America and Canada' stated: 
Perhaps the most striking feature of the American revenue sharing' grants is the 'pass through' requirement that two-thirds of the assistance must be reallocated by the States to their counties and municipalities . . . excluding intergovernmental transfers, utilities . . . and insurance funds, the expenditures of federal, State and local authorities in 1971-72 were related to one another in the ratio of 47:20.33. For Canada the corresponding relationship was 39:29.32. On either basis the provinces are relatively more important than the American States. These ratios of course indicate a much more important role for local government than exists in Australia where the relationship is roughly 47:46.7. 
I hasten to add that local authorities in the United States and Canada have responsibility, of course, for functions such as police and justice, health and welfare, housing and urban renewal and in some cases, education which Australia does not have. The quote continues: 
The financing of this extensive range of activities throws a heavy burden on local property taxation. In 197 1-72 revenue from all local property taxation averaged nearly $50 per $1,000 of personal income in the United States of Amenca and Canada as compared  with only SI 5 in  Australia, which makes complaints about the high level of local rates in Australia seem somewhat exaggerated. 
In Victoria an inquiry is currently considering the whole question of rural rate structure. For some years the Local Government Act in that State empowered local government authorities to strike a differential rate between urban and rural communities. Experience has shown, however, that many municipalities refused to use the provisions in the Act to bring rating equity between ratepayers. It is to be hoped that the inquiry and its recommendations will highlight these inequities and that the Government will seek ways and means to correct the imbalance which many ratepayers and their representative organisations believe exist in rural Victoria. 
In fundamental terms our federalism policy recognises the role which local government can and should play in government. There are, however, questions which must be considered by local government and in many instances answers found before the third partner is in a position to exercise its greater governmental responsibility. One example is the quality of administration. We should ask the question: Is the quality of administration of a sufficiently high standard to deal with the volume and complexity of additional powers and responsibility? Are the elected representatives generally capable of undertaking an increased role in the personal services of local government? Will local government authorities divest themselves of the 'old boy ' network which in some instances ensures the election on a rotation basis by ward or riding of the position of shire  president  or mayor? No longer can we have a criterion which is based not on quality but on long service to local government. Will the council seek the best man or woman for the job of  chairman  of that council? Will the administration have access to a local government public service with expertise in all spheres of government? Will local government facilities be made available to the community to ensure maximum use of expensive buildings and recreation areas, or will those facilities be jealously controlled by and confined within the local government structure? I would refer to the Horton report on public libraries in Australia. Local government authorities proposed to that inquiry that school community libraries ought to be established for the use of the community at large rather than for one sector to the exclusion of another sector. 
In some instances it will be necessary for some local government authorities to rethink their role in government. The contribution by local authorities as a partner in government must be of a high standard. Ratepayers and citizens will demand, hopefully, quality and civic leadership in areas of responsibility which can generally be described as community development. There are many recent examples where local government has indicated its willingness to take up the challenge from the Federal Government. I refer firstly to the Municipal Association of Victoria and its approach to the first Bailey report from the Commonwealth Task Force on co-ordination in Health and Welfare. A meeting convened by the Municipal Association of Victoria to discuss the Bailey report was attended by over 300 councillors and administrators. A detailed submission prepared by the Association has been filed with the Government. I respectfully agree with the Municipal Association m its conclusion that the implications of the Bailey report recommendations are wide-ranging and of substantial significance to the delivery of health and welfare in this country. The Municipal Association of Victoria said this in its submission: 
The responsibilities of local government have become much broader than the traditional provision of works and services financed by rates. Local Government is now involved with planning for welfare of the whole community. An increasing range of grants from Commonwealth and State sources nas expanded the role of local government in social welfare. Despite this increased involvement mechanisms for consultation and joint planning between the spheres of Government do not provide for adequate input from local government. 
The Association then made recommendations relating to the position between Commonwealth, State, local government and non-government bodies. It said: 
The Commonwealth Government should ensure that- 
It works from the general policy position on local government encompassed in its Federalism and social welfare policies. 
It ensures that local government is entrusted with greater powers and responsibilities and identifies those areas involving a local role. 
It establishes guarantees for devolution beyond the State to a local level. 
It establishes arrangements for allocation of funds beyond the State level. 
More significantly, it made this point which should be examined in relation to road funding: 
Changes are not made without significant agreement amongst each level of Government and the nonGovernment sector. Where devolution is taking place beyond a State level consideration might be given to the proposition that moneys from Commonwealth and State sources should not be channelled through existing State Government departments. Having regard to services required a State Grants Commission might be given the task of distributing available moneys. 
That reference to the States grants commissions was not alluded to, perhaps deliberately, by the honourable member for Reid in his criticism of this Government's role in relation to the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Municipal Association of Victoria concluded that submission by saying: 
Local government can co-operate with Commonwealth and State Governments. It can establish viable consultative arrangements on a local government area basis. It can be represented in consultation at a regional level. Through its umbrella' organisations it can participate in consultation at a State and Commonwealth level. 
I would hope that at the Commonwealth level we do not forget the willingness expressed in that instance by the Municipal Association of Victoria. It epitomises the attitude of many responsible associations representing local government throughout Australia. 
The second example to which I refer briefly in demonstrating the willingness of local government to be involved in assisting the Commonwealth Government, and indeed the people of Australia, is in the area of unemployment. The Austraiian Council of Local Government Associations, acting on behalf of all local government authorities in Australia, submitted to the Government its willingness to take up programs which would provide employment through local government. This is of particular significance to rural Australia where job opportunities are not as wide or as numerous as they are in more closely populated urban areas. I trust that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  will give urgent consideration to that submission and acknowledge the contribution which local government m Australia has demonstrated in this matter. I conclude by repeating that I am not surprised that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is opposed to the philosophy which this Government has undertaken in relation to local government. Local government now has a Commonwealth Government that it can trust. It is a Commonwealth Government which is supplying funds on a regular basis through the tax sharing arrangements. 
It seems that some degree of logic is believed to come into a debate by raising one's voice. I am afraid we have seen a demonstration that that particular theory fails. The community debate on uranium has in many respects been finalised. There has been such a degree of polarisation that many citizens have reached a position where their minds are closed to further argument. That is not surprising. The Government has announced its decision. The Labor Party Conference in Perth resolved to announce its decision. The Executive of the Australian Council of Trade Unions has announced its recommendations. Over the past two years in particular there has been a large volume of information available to those interested in the use of uranium as an energy resource. Since the publication and issue of the first Fox report in November 1976 the volume of information and expression of opinion from all sectors of the community has risen to a crescendo. 
Many people in Australia have made up their minds that the Government's decision to allow the mining and export of uranium was correct. Surveys in Australia have shown overwhelming support for that decision. In some ways it is comforting to know that the people support the Government's decision. That fact does not, however, make the Government's decision and particularly my own decision any easier. Together with many colleagues from both sides of the House I kept an open mind and was uncertain what decision should be made on this subject. As the months passed and the Fox reports became available I concluded that the Government's decision is correct. Many decisions which arose after a detailed examination of the first Fox report were answered to my satisfaction in the several Ministerial statements made in this House on 25 August. I deplore the selective use of the commissioner's report by members of the Opposition and their supporters outside this 
House to prop up arguments which have a political basis only and which are not relevant to the detailed Ministerial papers upon which the Government's decision has been taken. 
The whole subject of uranium is complex. It cannot properly be covered in IS minutes. Therefore, I shall dwell on two aspects in this debate- whether there should be a moratorium and/or a referendum. In Australia both the official and the industry figures include a large proportion of uranium which is both high grade by world standards and is at or near the surface. By contrast many uranium deposits in Canada, the United States of America and South Africa are of very low grade, are deep underground, or both. Moreover, a considerable amount of the better uranium ores originally present in the United States, France and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has been used for weapons production via enrichment. Although the United States, Japan, France, West Germany and other countries are busily searching for uranium in Brazil, Africa, Indonesia and elsewhere, several years of very extensive and expensive drilling have not yet produced the desired results. Accordingly, Australian uranium is extremely attractive to overseas buyers because of its relatively low cost and apparent abundance. 
Depending on what case one wishes to promote, Australian uranium may be regarded as making up 10 per cent of total world resources, 20 per cent of cheap world resources or 80 per cent of uncommitted resources to 1985. But it is the second figure which carries most significance 20 per cent of the cheapest world resources. The Ranger commissioners argue on page 180 of the first report that since no country will really be dependent on Australian uranium until 1985, no great international harm will be done by a moratorium. But surely it is only under duress that consumer countries will listen to us anyway. Actually there are customers most anxious to receive Australian uranium before 1985. Italy, West Germany and the United States have large shortfalls. Other countries such as Japan will be placed in a difficult position if Nam6ibian nationalists close down the huge Rossing mine. 
The potential sales from two medium sized Australian mines commencing operations in 1979-1980 would produce approximately 3,000 short tonnes of yellowcake a year, which amounts to $A180m a mine at between $25 and $28 per pound of yellowcake. Altogether a twoyear to five-year moratorium might lead to a revenue loss of between $A720m and $ A 1,800m, depending on its duration. Further indirect losses are involved. For example, capital costs for mines and mills are escalating at a much higher rate than overall inflation. Also, the moratorium might lead to big new uranium finds overseas. Australia's reputation as a reliable supplier might be permanently damaged by the moratorium. Many people do not realise that in at least 25 countries, and probably more, sufficient knowhow and fissile material already exist for the manufacture of nuclear weapons, albeit in small numbers. Another fact forgotten by many anti-uranium proponents is the significant number of nuclear warheads already in existence. For example, the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, including France, have about 8,200 strategic warheads. They have about 22,000 tactical warheads. The USSR has about 3,700 intercontinental ballistic missiles and 8,000 to 20,000 tactical warheads. 
There are at least two means by which an Australian moratorium on uranium exports might actually worsen the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Firstly, the current, possibly artificial, shortage of long term, cheap uranium supplies is prompting big consumers such as Japan, West Germany and France to explore vigorously overseas. Their targets are mostly the less developed nations, for example Brazil, whose size alone may almost guarantee the presence of uranium. Although nuclear facilities may not be immediately needed in the host countries, the exploring countries are likely to offer technology as they are in Brazil for power reactors, together with enrichment and reprocessing plants, in return for a generous slice of whatever uranium is found. 
Secondly, the pace of developments of fast breeder reactors at least partly depends on available supplies of uranium. When uranium is rare as a result of scarcity or export bans the breeder's sixty-fold utilisation rate of uranium over conventional reactors becomes an overwhelming advantage. Both the Fox Commission and the British Flowers Commission expressed grave misgivings about breeder reactors. At this point of time they appear less safe in operation than thermal reactors, but even more dubious is their everyday production and use of plutonium as the basic fuel. For both environmental and economic reasons it is not in Australia's best interests to encourage fast breeder reactors or take any action which would hasten the development of fast breeder reactors in countries overseas. 
Whilst it is difficult to gauge the exact effectiveness of an Australian uranium moratorium on nuclear weapons proliferation and terrorism there could well be a beneficial indirect leverage possible on suppliers of sensitive nuclear technology who themselves need large supplies of cheap uranium for power reactors. But the question is whether a blanket 2-year to 5-year export ban with its across the board effect on all consumers can be more useful than the Government's announcement that those nuclear nations not agreeing to improved safeguards and restricted technology transfer would selectively miss out on short term and long term supplies of our cheap uranium. The latter course has the advantage of being more credible, of establishing Australia as a nuclear fuel supplier accepted with respect in the world's decision making uranium forums, of being more effective against dissident countries such as France and of reflecting our international energy responsibilities. 
The proposition that a referendum should be conducted on the uranium issue seems to be an attempt by the Executive of the ACTU to establish a compromise between the extreme views of Labor Party members within the trade union movement. Governments are elected to represent the people and to make responsible decisions. The Government has announced its policy and proposed course of action on the subject of mining and export of uranium. It has precisely defined its program for the protection of the environment within the mining area. It has negotiated and announced its decision on Aboriginal rights. It will establish a major national park. The Government in May 1977 enunciated its onerous and stringent safeguards for the mining, sale and export of uranium. It announced an energy policy which incorporates reference to the provision of substantial funds for solar energy research. The Government took account of contracts entered into by the Whitlam Government to mine and export uranium. 
Time does not permit any greater consideration of these matters tonight but it must be emphasised again that decisions on all these subjects were taken only after lengthy consideration of all arguments and analysis of all relevant facts. I presume that the Labor Party gave adequate consideration to its Perth decision not to call for a referendum. The democratic processes have been applied to the uranium debate. Television, radio, magazines, daily newspapers and interest group newsletters as well as the Australian Conservation Foundation, the Friends of the Earth, the churches, mining companies, individual commissioners from the Fox commission, scientists, politicians and so on have over the past two years covered all sides of the uranium argument. Demonstrators have expressed their views on the streets and on the walls of our cities. Community groups have conducted further debates, and the Parliament has devoted a great deal of time in this House and through the committee system to the subject. The democratic processes have been at work and the Government has made its decision after taking all of these interests into account. I respectfully submit that a referendum would take the matter no further. The Government has therefore rejected this proposal. 
I would like to refer to the 1976 Alfred Deakin lecture by Professor  Sir Frank  Macfarlane Burnet on the subject entitled 'Uranium: For Good or Evil'. I have read and re-read that lecture and admit that many of his arguments were persuasive and forceful. He concluded with these words:  the one token of sincerity that we can offer is to leave our uranium ores in the ground until the nations of the world can be trusted to use, for good, what they have made a symbol of evil. 

 Sir Macfarlane Burnet in his oft quoted letter to the Melbourne  Age  of 12 August 1977 expressed a view which was different from the argument he developed in the Alfred Deakin lecture. He changed his mind after consultation with overseas leaders and observation of further arguments as they have developed since 1966. Let me quote from  Sir Macfarlane  Burnet's letter. He said: 
I have recently returned from a month overseas and it is clear that, both in Australia and in the Western world generally, opinion is becoming more highly polarised than ever. Accepting this, we must do what we can to find other rounds on which a broadly acceptable policy might be based. I believe that a majority of thoughtful people accept the inevitability, for at least an interim period, of large-scale use of nuclear energy in most parts of the world. Things being as they are, nuclear power generators will be needed for the next 20, or perhaps 50, years in most of the developed countries, with Japan and Sweden in particular need. 
I conclude by expressing a personal hope that the world 's countries will honour the trust and will meet their contractual and treaty obligations and responsibilities which the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia will demand in the peaceful use of uranium. I support the motion and reject the amendment. 
-The Bill before the House is the States Grants (Roads) Bill 1977. By way of this Bill the Commonwealth will contribute funds for the construction and maintenance of roads in Australia. The payments will be made pursuant to section 96 of the Constitution as non-repayable interest free advances to the State governments. These funds form part only of the total contribution made by States and local governments for roads throughout Australia. For each of the three years the Australian Government will provide $475m. It should be noted, however, that the Government has undertaken to ensure that the sum of $475m in 1977-78 will be repeated in the two ensuing years in real terms. The actual increase in the next two financial years will be determined in a general budgetary context but will be at least equivalent in value to the current year's funds. 
I must refer here to the comments made by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr FitzPatrick)  who quoted selectively from the second reading speech of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in relation to the indexation of grants for 1978-79 and 1979-80. But the honourable member omitted to quote one significant paragraph, which I should like to quote. The Minister stated: 
Generally I would not anticipate any drastic alterations to the adjustments derived by use of the price deflator proposed and the overall effect of the proposed arrangements will be a substantial basic guarantee to the States. 
It is worth while noting the emphasis which should be placed on the word 'guarantee', as a guarantee has been given by the Minister to the States for those two further years. Honourable members will be aware that the State governments will be required by this legislation to match the Commonwealth expenditure on a quota basis. To the $475m from the Commonwealth the States will be required to contribute under this quota $4 18.8m. Payments have been made to the States for road expenditure since 1923. In that year $lm was paid to the States on a dollar-for-dollar basis. It is obvious that since that time the Commonwealth contribution has increased substantially. It is true also that State and local government contributions for roads have increased substantially since 1923. 
In this speech I shall deal only with local government responsibility for roads in Victoria. In 1975 the old Bureau of Roads recommended that the Commonwealth contribution towards road funds be 33 per cent, the State government contribution be 36 per cent and the local government contribution 31 per cent. In 1975 the Federal Government, with a $ 15,264m income, paid 32.8 per cent of road costs in Victoria. The State Government, with an income of $2,965m paid 35.9 per cent of road costs in Victoria that year. Local government, with an Australian income of $852m, paid 31.3 per cent of the road costs in Victoria that year. The municipal Association of Victoria suggested a plan- the MAV planwhich required the Commonwealth to contribute 50 per cent, the State Government 35 per cent and local government only 15 per cent. In support of its plan the Municipal Association of Victoria argued that municipalities could expand road building without increasing rates. 
The Minister, in announcing the 1977-78 funding for roads, identified the problems which local government had been experiencing in the past in coping with its responsibility for roads, particularly in the rural arterial, rural local and urban local road categories. Accordingly the Government increased the funds for rural arterial roads in Victoria by 158 per cent, funds for the rural local roads category by 78 per cent and funds for the urban local roads category by 93 per cent.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables, one which sets out the Government's untied grants to local government by way of the 1.52 per cent share of personal income tax collections and the second, which sets out the road funds allocated in Victoria. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. With regard to the community health program, is the Minister able to advise whether he recently met State Health Ministers? If so, does he anticipate that State governments will meet funding projections established by the Commonwealth Government? Does he agree that a legislative base for the community health program is necessary to ensure continuity of the Commonwealth Government's commitment and to encourage State governments to treat the program as one which is essential to contain the nation's health costs because of the program's preventative health bias? 
-One respect of health expenditure upon which I should like to dwell tonight is the community health program. Grants for that program for 1977-78 have been increased by $l0.2m to $79.05m- an increase of 14.8 per cent over the previous year. At a time of general economic restraint it is pleasing to see the Government's commitment to the community health program in accordance with its 1975 pre-election promises. We then stated that we believed in a concept of total health care with the responsibility essentially at the community level. Our policy further stated that we would provide a variety of accessible ways in which to meet these needs as far as possible in the community setting and that we would stress prevention, education, rehabilitation and home care in preference to institutional care. 
Fifteen years ago approximately 5.2 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product was devoted to health. By the 1975-76 financial year the expenditure had risen to an estimated $5,235m, representing 7.5 per cent of Australia's gross domestic product. Honourable members will be aware that the Bailey task force found that the total expenditure in the health and welfare areas of Commonwealth government responsibility exceeded $8,800m in 1975-76, or 40 per cent of the total government outlay. Of that sum the expenditure on the community health program represented less than one per cent. 
The growing cost of the provision of health services in this country ought to be of major concern to this Parliament and to those responsible for the planning and implementation of our national health program. I believe that our commitment to the preventive and educational aspects of the community health program can go a considerable way towards constraining our health expenditure. In September 1976 the Dean of the Medical School at the University of Melbourne identified part of the problem when he stated: 
There have been many initiatives to improve health care in the community in the past four years, originating from various State agencies and from Canberra. This has resulted in alarming fragmentation of services and ineffective use of resources in some areas. 
The recommendations of the Bailey task force are a starting point in the rationalisation of government health programs. We look forward with interest to the report which will be published shortly by the Bailey follow-up group. However, it is my view that the community health program can be the basis for a national health program with a strong bias towards the preventive and educational aspects of community well-being. Currently over 700 projects are funded under the community health progam. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table setting out in summary form the 727 projects that have been funded. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="106131197710064_84_0.jpg"></graphic>

These projects range from community health centres to day hospitals, day care centres, geriatric services, health education services, maternal and child care services, drug and rehabilitation facilities, funding for community nursing and so on. It is a wide-ranging program of considerable benefit to community well-being and in many cases it gives health services to communities that previously have been deprived in that area. 
In the short time available to me I would like to refer to one particular area; that is, the role of the community nurse. I am not suggesting that the work of the community nurse is more important than that of others working in the program, but I believe that it is a good example of the development of a new category of health worker. The community nurse is a generalist. She is not limited to one special aspect of nursing service. She is oriented to health as opposed to illness; to prevention rather than cure; and to rehabilitation rather than submission to disabilities. In country areas the community nurse also provides therapeutic services. As at July 1976 over 1,100 community nurses were operating throughout Australia and being funded under the community health program. 
Under the program an amount of $437,800 will be granted to the Australian Foundation on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence. Of that sum, $223,500 will be allocated to allow the completion of the national alcoholism in industry program. The Foundation provides statistics that indicate that an estimated 150,000 male alcoholics are engaged in industry and commerce. That represents 4.5 per cent of the Australian work force. In 1974-75 an estimated $532m was lost to industry in Australia as a direct result of alcoholism. The advantages of the alcoholism in industry  program  will be numerous. Not the least of them will be the relief not only to the alcoholic but also to bis family. Honourable members will be aware of the excellent work being carried out at centres such as the 
Salvation Army's 'Haven' in Brisbane for young alcoholics and drug addicts and the New South Wales Health Commission's main drug centre in the heart of Sydney. 
There is another area that I believe should be developed within the framework of the community health program. Community recreation, fitness and use of leisure time are a vital part of any national health program. They are basic to the preventive aspect of the community's health. A report submitted recently to the Government by its Health and Welfare Committee referred to this matter in the following terms: 
The health of the community has a direct relationship to the manner in which members of the community utilise thenleisure time and perform their daily tasks. National policies on sport, recreation and fitness must be interrelated to a national health program. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., in accordance with the order of the House of 10 March 1977, 1 shall report progress. 

 The Deputy Chairman having reported accordingly- 

I rise briefly to mention four events in the sporting world which I think ought to be recorded in this House. First, I compliment the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  who was able to encourage a team in New South Wales with the same name as his electorate to win the historic replay of the Rugby League grand final. It was a similar comment made in the course of a recent answer by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in relation to that other great game, Australian Rules football, which prompted me to try to educate the honourable member for St George and remind him of that great game which is played in Victoria. North Melbourne also won a replay of the grand final and that team ought to be congratulated for its achievement. 
The third matter I mention concerns Rocky Mattiolli who in August this year won the world light middleweight boxing title. That gentleman is a credit to the sport he follows. He came to Australia from Italy with his family when he was 4 1/2 years of age and settled in the electorate of McMillan in the township of Morwell. He commenced training with Stan Mounsey who is also from that town, at the age of 12 years and with a great deal of perseverance and hard work he won a number of titles in Australia as an amateur. He finally went into the bigger world of international boxing and was able to win the world light middleweight title. 
He returned to Australia to a thundering silence without any recognition whatsoever. It was to the credit of the Shire of Morwell that he was given a civic reception some two weeks ago. The Victorian Football League saw fit to ask him to drive around the ground before the crowd of 100,000 prior to the game between North Melbourne and Collingwood. Those people added their congratulations as I hope this House will add its congratulations to a great sportsman who has adopted this country and represented it well overseas. 
The final point I mention is one which also has echoes of the Rocky Mattiolli case in that the allAustralian netball team won a world championship in 197S and similarly returned from New Zealand after winning that world championship with very little recognition by the Australian public at large. This year, August 1977 to August 1978, is the year of the all-Australian netball golden jubilee celebrations. Honourable members will be aware that hundreds of thousands of girls and women around Australia play netball. The inaugural meeting of that particular organisation, which was then called the All-Australian Women's Basketball Association, was held in Sydney on 26 and 27 August 1927. As I have mentioned, Australia is currently the holder of the world netball title. It first won the world tournament in England in 1963. It was runner up in the second world tournament staged by the allAustralians in Perth in 1967. It regained the title in Jamaica in 1 97 1 and retained it in Auckland in 1975. The fifth world series will be staged in Trinidad in August 1979. 
In this coming year, as part of the golden jubilee celebrations, Australia will be playing host to a Trinidad and Tobago national team which will be playing in all States and in the Australian Capital Territory. Four test matches will be included in the series of games. Finally, I record a wish which the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  shares with me. We attended the golden jubilee dinner in Hobart some weeks ago. We wish that a stamp could be printed to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the All-Australian Netball Association and also appropriately to commemorate the fact that that Association is the current world holder of the netball championships. 
-The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  is very concerned about the strength of the back bench after the next election, whenever that may be. I trust that he will listen quietly to what I am going to read tonight. I have a letter from some responsible union leaders in the Latrobe Valley. I refer to a letter from the State  President  of the Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen's Association, who is also Secretary of the Morwell sub-branch of that union, and the Secretary of the Yallourn sub-branch of that union to the local newspaper, the La Trobe Valley  Express  some three weeks ago. In that letter  Mr Kroezen  and  Mr Coffield  state: 
The log of claims, cause of the disputation, was, and still constitutionally is, in the hands of the Victorian Trades Hall Council. Processes were under way for establishing complete agreement among all unions with members employed in the SEC before the log was submitted by the VTHC to the SEC on behalf of all these unions. 
Two meetings of representatives of the SEC unions were held at the VTHC in May, at which discussion was necessarily protracted because of complex award matters involved. It would have been, nevertheless, only a matter of time until agreement was ultimately reached on the log to be submitted to the SEC through constitutional trade union channels. 
However, on IS June, an organised group calling itself the SEC Latrobe Valley Shop Stewards Committee, under the leadership of Amalgamated Metal Workers Union official S. Armstrong - 
-Mr Armstrong is  President  of the Gippsland Trades and Labour Council,  Chairman  of the SEC Latrobe Valley Shop Stewards Committee, Secretary of the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union and a member of the Communist Party, as the honourable member for Riverina said. The letter continues:  . . took it upon itself to call a mass meeting of SEC workers in the Latrobe Valley in order to discuss the log of claims issued. At this meeting S. Armstrong, after a reprehensible and completely unjustifiable attack on the VTHC, moved a resolution that the Latrobe Valley work force 'go it alone' in pursuing a log of claims with the SEC. This resolution was narrowly carried, committing the workers involved to breaking away from a unified campaign, properly conducted under the control of the VTHC. Overtime and availability bans were imposed forthwith, this industrial action escalating to the now seven-week long stoppage. 
Apart from the fact that S. Armstrong's committee is representative of only 11 of the unions with members employed in the SEC, shop stewards committees, which operate under an ACTU charter, have no constitutional authority to either engage in this type of industrial activity or pursue matters affecting wage rates or award conditions. From the outset, therefore, the Latrobe Valley campaign has been essentially illegal and divorced from properly constituted trade union procedures. The 2,300 men involved have been badly misled and the great hardship suffered by them and their families should never have happened. 
The FEDFA, together with the other unions with members in SEC employ, has endeavoured to act responsibly by maintaining a position within the framework of the VTHC campaign. This campaign has, of course, been disrupted by the Latrobe Valley operation. 
Disunity there certainly is, but the whole disunifying process was initiated by S. Armstrong and his shop stewards on IS June. 
The writers of the letter refer to the editorial in that newspaper and state: 
Reverting to the  Express  viewpoint as stated we take particular exception to the presumption of the editorial writer in daring to tell our members how to conduct their industrial affairs, and we view his suggestion that the FEDFA should have seen to it that Victoria was 'plunged into darkness and brought to a standstill ' as the most outrageous editorial comment we have had the misfortune to read. 
It is no wonder the Secretary of the Victorian Trades Hall Council is reported in tonight's  Herald as  calling on the workers to resume their work in the Latrobe Valley and to stop the rot which has set in and which is in fact totally caused by the illegal actions of the SEC Latrobe Valley Shop Stewards Committee. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What was the total value of Australian souvenirs or Australiana-type goods imported into Australia for each of the years from 1 July 1973 to 30 June 1976. 
2 ) What were the values of the imports from each respective country during each of those years. 
What are the categories of imported souvenir or Australianatype goods. 
What are the respective duties or imposts imposed in relation to these categories. 
5 ) What protection, encouragement or subsidy is granted to any Australian manufacturer of Australian souvenirs or Australiana wholly manufactured within the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Is the Treasurer aware that many businesses, in particular small businesses, find that high interest rates are a major burden on their cost structure? When will the Government be in a position to relieve this burden? 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development satisfied that the Government's policy on sport and recreation can be implemented having regard to restraints on public spending? Has the establishment of the Sports Advisory Council been accepted by the Confederation of Australian Sport and other interested sport and leisure groups in Australia? What importance does the Minister place on the Government's commitment to the national 'Life- Be In It' campaign, having regard to the general state of the nation's health? 
I am pleased to be able to talk in the second reading debate on the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Bill. 1978. At the outset I reject the amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating).  He is seeking on behalf of the Opposition a separate enactment for each project under the Bill which would be considered in total if it were passed as presented by the Government. I think honourable members need to be reminded of the words of the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  in his second reading speech. He said that the Parliament will need to consider separately the appropriation of funds for the purpose of the agreements. So on each occasion that any project is to be funded this Parliament will have the opportunity to consider that appropriation in debate. 
The other point which I shall develop in the course of my address is that the Commonwealth will continue to have that overview and indeed a degree of consultation which it has enjoyed in the past with the States. There is no necessity whatsoever to intrude a further layer into those sorts of consultations which have been successful in the past. The Minister for National Development explained the purpose of the Bill in his second reading speech. The provisions of the clauses are unambiguous. However, the introduction of the Bill gives us the opportunity to debate the subject of water resources in Australia. 
Water as a resource is basic to every field of endeavour, whether it is agricultural, industrial or social. For example, if we are to consider a national land use plan we cannot ignore water.  Mr E.  G. Hallworth. in a paper to the fortyseventh congress of the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science in Hobart in May 1976, considered a future land use policy for Australia and explained five aspects of land use which he considered should be developed or changed. Stating them simply, those five land use aspects were as follows: Forest production; methods for making better use of water resources; techniques for making better use of the rain where it falls; opportunities for avoiding loss of land-based production by the deliberate siting of new population centres in areas of low productive agricultural value; and wildlife resources. Each one of those aspects can be developed only if water is available as a resource to maintain a particular land use. 
Clean, fresh water is required for drinking. Increased leisure time creates a demand for variation in recreational pursuits, many of which require water. I refer to things such as swimming, water ski-ing, bird watching and trout fishing. To create a decentralised urban community water is required. To develop some industrial undertakings fresh water in huge quantities is basic. The standard of living of men, women and children in Australia and in any developed society in the world will not be maintained, let alone developed, unless the management of water resources is conducted in accordance with regional and national policies on conservation and use. Many people argue that Australia has an abundance of land for exploitation. Some people will be happy to espouse any argument which permits a land use policy to develop in an uncontrolled, unrestrained manner, provided it is not next to their own home or property. They see no necessity for long term planning or restraint. 
Yet we can read that vegetable growing areas near Melbourne, for example, have declined by approximately 30 per cent in acreage during the past five years. Market gardens are now being 'developed', to use that marvellous term which in the past has been translated to mean subdivision, developed high urban density, increased land values, hobby farms, higher interest rates and higher municipal rates. As a consequence of that development the vegetable growers for urban Melbourne move further away from those people for whom they produce. They are moving away from existing water  resources. The market gardener is moving to less fertile soil. Consequently his costs are increasing, and accordingly the cost to the consumer is also moving upwards. Another consequence is that new sources of water are required each time urban development leapfrogs into rural areas. I submit therefore that there is a wastage of two resources- fertile and highly productive soil, and water. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced on 12 February this year that the State Premiers had been invited to nominate projects for consideration under a five-year $200m water resources program. That is hardly a phasing out, as the honourable member for Blaxland referred to it in his speech. These moneys will be used in part for water resource assessment and research. A project which may attract a grant or loan moneys under this Bill would include 'the conservation of water resources or water environment' and 'the management of water quality'. Already a great deal of first class co-operative work on this subject is performed by the Australian Water Resources Council. The Council works within the framework of a statement approved by the Commonwealth and State governments which is appropriately entitled 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management'. In view of the importance of this statement. I seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

AUSTRALIAN WATER RESOURCES COUNCIL 
A national approach to Water Resources Management 
The conservation, development and management of water resources must take place in the broad framework not only of development and management of resources generally, but also of overall economic, environmental and social planning. 
Throughout the developed world, economic merit has frequently been the principal criterion for the assessment of development projects generally. It will remain an important factor, since economic growth is needed to underwrite the diversity of goals of modern society. However, goals other than the production of goods have, particularly in the last few years, been given a new significance as some of the harmful effects of the pursuit of economic growth as the dominant goal, have become more evident. 
It must be appreciated that over much of Australia rainfall is highly variable both seasonally and from year to year and that floods and droughts are characteristic of the Australian environment. Much of the interior is extremely dry and for the continent as a whole the average rainfall is low, the loss by evaporation large and the runoff small. Although parts of the coastal belt receive plentiful rain for much of the time, nonetheless these areas do experience drought. Because of these climatic limitations on the amount of water available extensive water conservation will be necessary for development and to maintain and improve the quality of life. 
In the management of water there is abundant evidence of the interdependence of the elements of the whole environment. The damming of a river has a direct effect not only on the submerged area immediately upstream, but also on the characteristics of the river downstream. This may result in major changes, beneficial or otherwise, to the condition of the river channel, to lakes, swamps or other features associated with the river, to water quality, to the habitat of fish, bird and other wildlife, as well as to the various human activities, social and commercial, associated with the river. All our water resources- rivers, streams, lakes and aquifersand the ecosystems associated with them, must be managed in a way which as far as possible will provide overall enhancement of the environment. Furthermore, the management strategies adopted for Australia's inland waters must give full consideration to the effects on estuarine and marine environments. 
Water management is also closely associated with our social well being- the availability of adequate water supply and sewerage services is often used as a yardstick for assessing social development. There are however other less evident but important relationships. Laws and regulations determining rights to the use of water can affect the distribution of prosperity. Water is often a major component in programs for regional growth or stabilisation. The importance of water as a basis for recreation is already high and will undoubtedly increase. Social objectives, which may not be directly compatible with economic efficiency, must be given proper weight. 
Hence it is particularly appropriate in the case of water resources projects that they are planned and assessed not only on the basis of the extent to which they influence economic growth, but also on the basis of their impact on social well being, on regional development, and on the environment generally. 
Within this broad framework, a balanced approach to water resources management would include the following desirable goals (some of which may not be achieved quickly). 
the provision of water supplies, adequate in quantity and quality- 
to meet the needs of people throughout Australia, 
to meet the needs of or stimulate primary and secondary industry in such a way as to be compatible with projected market outlooks for the commodities concerned; compatible with the resources and characteristics of the region concerned; 
the development and management of water resources so that, where practicable and desirable, other purposes such as flood mitigation, power generation, recreation and wildlife conservation are achieved in parallel with the purposes referred to above; 
the development of waste water treatment facilities in conjunction with water supply systems and the encouragement of recycling and re-use where appropriate; 
the adoption of water pricing policies which enable water needs to be met at a fair and reasonable price, but which provide an incentive to all water users to avoid wasteful or environmentally harmful practices and which encourage the efficient allocation of resources; 
the continued development of policies and practices, as far as possible consistent throughout Australia, aimed at achieving appropriate water quality objectives, and the highest practicable level of pollution abatement; 
the adoption of the general principle that direct costs, or costs related to loss of amenity, attributable to pollution should be borne by the polluter. Although the immediate and full implementation of this principle may not be feasible, it is nonetheless a goal to be pursued; 
the zoning of flood-prone land, with a view to its orderly management; 
the maintenance of adequate undisturbed aquatic environments as reference areas and the preservation of appropriate wetlands for the benefit of native wildlife; 
implementation of a program of public education aimed at ensuring a proper understanding of the factors affecting the development and use of water resources and a sense of responsibility in relation to these matters; 
the encouragement of an active interest and involvement of the community in the planning and management of water resources. 
In order to implement a continuing planned program in the water field, the following specific activities are proposed which in some cases will require close collaboration and consultation between the Commonwealth and State Governments, and the many other bodies with interests in this field: 
continue the collaborative program of measurement and investigation of surface and underground water sponsored by the Australian Water Resources Council, and develop it as required in order to provide adequate basic data on the quantity and quality of Australia 's water resources; 
accelerate the studies which have been initiated by the Australian Water Resources Council to determine, on a region-by-region basis, the quantity and quality of water likely to be available for use under man's control; 
undertake, as soon as practicable, such additional measures as may be needed to provide reliable data on water diverted from all sources (surface and underground), water actually used, and the quantity and quality of effluent in all sectors- municipal, industrial and agricultural; 
d ) keep under review the possible merit of restructuring any existing water projects and systems with a view to achieving more effective use of resources in the light of changing conditions; 
undertake projection of regional water requirements in appropriate areas for approximately 10 to 30 years ahead, taking into account requirements for domestic and municipal purposes, primary and secondary industries, power generation, recreation and wildlife habitat, and with due regard to the sensitivity of demand to various factors such as technological and social change and price; 
collate the material outlined above in order to provide a picture of likely requirements in relation to the development, allocation and management of water for all purposes in the various regions; 
develop programs in the water field, including the provision of sewerage facilities, and the handling of liquid wastes generally, by collaboration between governments or authorities where appropriate; 
maintain a system of data acquisition, storage and retrieval in order to provide an adequate information base to meet the requirements of interested parties; 
maintain a program of research, studies, dissemination of results, education and such other measures as may be required to enable the water management goals set out in this Statement to be achieved; 
further develop systems for monitoring floods and droughts and assessing and minimising their adverse effects. 
At the twentieth meeting of the Australian Water Resources Council last year the members considered a number of current Commonwealth-State programs. For example, the governments of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and the Commonwealth are jointly involved in the eradication of weed from the Gingham watercourse near Moree. Another joint project of major significance is the River Murray Working Party which is concerned with salinity in the River Murray. All governments which are signatories to the River Murray Agreement have now accepted the recommendations of the Working Party, and draft legislation is currently being prepared by each government to amend the Agreement. The Council has expressed interest in the findings and recommendations which they anticipate will come from the inquiry on water resources by the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. I understand that the inquiry will be taken up by the Senate within the next 14 days. It would appear, therefore, that State and Commonwealth governments and their respective instrumentalities concerned with water resources are cooperating in the development and implementation of a national water resources policy. 
However, Australia has responsibilities at the international level. In March 1977 the Minister assisting the Minister for National Resources, the present Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  led an Australian delegation to the United Nations conference held at Mar del Plata in Argentina. This conference was one of a series of international conferences concerned with the problems which mankind will face in the use of the world's natural resources. Previous conferences in the series have been the conference on environment which was held in Stockholm in 1972, the conference on food which was held in Rome in 1974, the conference in Bucharest in 1975 which dealt with population, and the Habitat Conference held in Vancouver in 1976. The basic intent in conducting the United Nations Conference on Water was to allow nations to develop an objective policy for the supply of water for basic nutritional, environmental and health requirements of their people. 
In addressing the conference the leader of the Australian delegation emphasised the importance of water in Australia, pointing out that more than 40 per cent of the Australian continent is situated in the tropical zone, whereas approximately two-thirds of the Australian land mass is arid or semi-arid. Further, only the coastline of the east, south-east and far south-west of Australia, and the whole of Tasmania have climates which provide a consistent water surplus. It was pointed out to the conference that Australia's water authorities had developed a degree of expertise in many areas relevant to the developing countries and that, although Australia had much to learn from other countries, it was prepared to offer to the world its experience in the management and conservation of water. The conference passed a series of recommendations which are known as the 'Mar del Plata Action Plan'. The plan records the following recommendation on national water policy: 
Each country should formulate and keep under review a general statement of policy in relation to the use, management and conservation of water, as a framework for planning and implementing specific programs and measures for efficient operation of schemes. National development plans and policies should specify the main objectives of water-use policy, which should in turn be translated into guidelines and strategies, subdivided, as far as possible, into programs for the integrated management of the resource. 
It will be seen that the program which I have incorporated in  Hansard  entitled 'A National Approach to Water Resources Management', which has been approved by the State and Federal governments, reflects the terms of that recommendation. With regard to the recommendations to be taken nationally, all delegations endorsed the objectives, policies and guidelines relating to the appropriate action for water development and conservation including the adoption of national water policy statements, the development of appropriate technologies, flood and drought loss management, environment and health, et cetera. Not surprisingly, the principal issue which created the greatest area of discussion centred  Oil  the regional aspects of shared water resources. Perhaps the most contentious international problem in this area at the present time is the difficulty being experienced by India and Bangladesh in the allocation of water from the Farraka Barrage on the Ganges. The delegates expressed hope that the International Law Commission deliberations on shared water resources would lead to conclusions which would assist all states facing the problems of sharing water. 
At the international level the conference endorsed a study seeking the most effective mechanisms necessary to increase the flow of financial resources specifically for water development and management through existing organisations and instrumentalities. There was also lengthy discussion and emphasis on the need to establish, within the United Nations system, means by which water resource activities can be kept under constant review. It was decided to refer follow-up action to the Economic and Social Council, the Committee on Natural Resources and the regional commissions for inter-government co-operation which, in this area, would include the Economic and Social Council for Asia and the Pacific. 
In relation to Australia's representation at international meetings, the Australian Water Resources Council at its August 1977 meeting discussed some of the problems which were experienced in the past in determining the membership of the delegation making up the Australian party. The Council is currently establishing guidelines on the method and means of participation. I express a hope that those guidelines will ensure that Australia's representatives at international conferences on water are selected for their expertise, their knowledge and their experience and not by some process of entitlement as of right because of a delegate's particular standing in a Commonwealth or State instrumentality. It is a relatively minor, but, nevertheless, difficult area which must be resolved to ensure that only the best representation is sent to international forums on this subject. This Bill demonstrates the intention of this Government to protect our scarce water resources and to develop means by which those resources can best be utilised to maintain our present standards. Research into further development of water resources will also be possible by the use of funds provided by the Commonwealth Government pursuant to the terms of this Bill. I commend the Bill to the House and reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Blaxland. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (4.7)-My colleague the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has already pointed out the shocking record of Liberal-National Country Party governments when dealing with the quantity and quality of the water supply of our nation. It was heartening to hear him produce facts and figures to indicate clearly that the Whitlam Government was fully aware of the national importance of our waterways. It was most enlightening to note that the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  did not touch upon the facts or figures produced by the honourable member for 
Blaxland. This is a clear indication that they cannot be refuted. 
In referring to the Bill before the House, any member conscious of the facts would have to admit that it contains a great deal of callous window dressing. In his second reading speech, the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  said: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide the legislative framework within which the Commonwealth will be enabled to make agreements with the States on financial assistance for water resource projects 
One might well ask the question: What  is  new about this proposition? Ever since I have been a member of this Parliament, the Commonwealth has entered into agreements with the States on water projects. It has done so on several occasions. The Minister went on to say:  ... the Government is of the view that standing legislation of this nature is more appropriate to the requirements of a long-term program. 
However, the Minister neglected to indicate what the long term program is. Admittedly, there was the election gimmick of $200m to be made available for a national water resources program, but that proposal is not contained anywhere in the Bill before the House. If one inquires further to see what this Bill is all about, one finds that its purpose is really to appropriate from Consolidated Revenue a mere $2.5m. If this Bill is any guide as to how that mysterious $200m is to be spent, it indicates that the sum will be spent over 80 years with the first $2.5m to be allocated this financial year through this legislation. 
Referring to that part of the Minister's second reading speech dealing with clause 3, which defines the range of projects for which assistance will be available to the States under this new so called enacting legislation, we see that it encompasses all aspects of water resource management for which Government assistance would be appropriate. Anyone who knows anything about our water supply would know that prompt and urgent Commonwealth assistance is vitally needed in all these areas. As the honourable member for Blaxland has pointed out already, instead of all this window dressing there should be some specific purpose Bills which can be debated in the House so that the States will know what co-operation the Commonwealth is seeking. 
The honourable member for Blaxland has mentioned already the response of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  to a question on 3 May last year. He said: 
The present Government does not have a program of assistance to the States for water projects. 
The Deputy Prime Minister said also: 
It is of the view that the new Commonwealth-State financial arrangements should provide greater flexibility for the States in ordering their own priorities in water resource matters. 
This legislation passes the buck to the new CommonwealthState financial arrangements. How often does the Government use this dodge? As the honourable member for Blaxland has shown clearly the amount of money that was allocated for water resources projects under the Whitlam Government, why does not this Government come clean and show its figures so that we can make a comparison. This is what this Bill is all about. 
The Government is putting up this new idea so that we cannot make a comparison and so that the agreement will be tabled in the House. We will not have specific purpose Bills that can be debated in the House but we will have some kind of an agreement tabled. If one reads the reports in various newspapers, it is quite obvious that the Government is well aware of the problems and the urgency of the problems. Why do we have all this window dressing? Why cannot we get on with some specific purpose Bills, something that will help the people in these irrigation areas to solve their urgent water problems. 
I refer the House to a report in the  Border Mail  of Thursday, 4 August 1977 under the heading 'River Charter Inadequate, says Anthony'. It stated: 
The River Murray Commission's present charter left it inadequate to cope with all demands on the river, the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  said yesterday. 
He said there was flooding, erosion, salinity and pollution and legislation would have to be introduced to alter the commission's powers and structure. 

 Mr Anthony was speaking to representatives of the Albury, Wodonga and Tallangatta councils and members of the River Murray Action Group and Murray Valley Development League in Albury. 
That is a clear indication that the  Deputy  Prime Minister is well aware of the problems facing our water users. If one wanted to go any further to see how urgent it is that some specific legislation should be introduced into this House or that some direct assistance be given by the Commonwealth, one has only to refer to  Senator Webster's  speech in Mildura in 1977 when he pointed out that a recent report to the Australian Agricultural Council estimated a loss of yield of horticultural crops, including vegetables, in the Mallee zone alone. He made the point that the loss was worth $20m annually. I emphasise that in that small area which is dependent on our waterways $20m is being lost annually. 
A lot of noise has been made today about the introduction of this Bill which will provide an amount of $2.5m. This gives some idea of how much this Government lags with regard to concern for the quantity and quality of our water. I do not think that we have whipped the real problem yet. An article in the  Sunraysia Daily  of 5 November 1977 illustrates just how serious is this problem. The article is headed 'Salt Problem to Increase Unless Heavy Rain Falls' and states: 
Build up of salt in the water of the Murray River has reached an alarming level and is likely to get worse unless heavy rain falls in the catchment areas soon. 
This was the opinion of the  chairman  of the Sunraysia Salinity Committee,  Mr Eric  Orton, yesterday following concern expressed by the  chairman  of the Lower Murray (NSW) Water Users ' Association,  Mr Dudley  Marrows. 

 Mr Orton, a former CSIRO scientist, said yesterday the salinity at the Merbein pumps, as published yesterday, was S00 parts per million total soluble salts . . . while the latest figure for Cowanna Bend, published Thursday, was 552 ppm total soluble salts . . . 

 Mr Orton said it was agreed the desirable maximum was 300 ppm at which concentration damage to citrus under overhead sprays was likely to begin. 
You would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that if you were to visit the Sunraysia area the day after the sprays had been used on a hot day, there would be a lot of leaves on the ground. This is one of the big complaints of the people in the Sunraysia area, particularly in my electorate. They are asking for some system whereby they can get their water on demand so that they can work the sprays on the overcast days or in the night time. The salinity of the water is fast ruining all their land. 
I think the saddest thing of all is the fact that  Mr Orton  received a letter dated 28 October from  Mr C.  G. Edwards, secretary of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources, which says that because of the dissolution of Parliament and the forthcoming Federal election, the Committee's inquiry into Commonwealth involvement in water resources stood suspended until such time as the Committee was reconstituted and new members had been appointed at the beginning of the next Parliament. It is a very sad thing that because of the dissolution of the Parliament, nothing could be done about the water supply for these people.  Mr Edwards  said that it was expected that the inquiry would resume again in March 1978 and that he would provide further details when the Committee's future program was agreed on. He said he was very sorry for any inconvenience this delay might cause. I can assure the House that many of the growers in my electorate are also very concerned and very sorry about the situation that has developed because of this inconvenience. 
The growers have nothing against planning on a national level. They are fully conscious of the need for it. They have told me- and I know this applied long before I came into this Parliament because records were presented to me- that various committees have been to the area, have made investigations and have brought down recommendations as to what should be done to solve the problem of the salinity in the water. But what do we find? We see more and more expert committees investigating the problem and more and more recommendations being made, but nothing being done. There is general agreement that there is an urgent need for remedial action, particularly in regard to the tube mills in the Wakool-Tullakool area to which I referred the other night. The water table there is rising. The crops can be seen to be gradually dying back as the water rises, yet on the high ground there are lush crops. There is not doubt about it: Anyone, even someone without a great deal of experience in these matters, can see what was happening. 
The same remedial action is needed in the Sunraysia area. The recommendations have been made. Some of the tube wells have been put in and some have not. What we want is for the Government to spend some of this money. Instead of it telling us all the time about the $200m that is going to be spent, we want to see some of this money spent. We want to see something done urgently. The people in the area want to know whether or not they have a future. They cannot wait for another committee; they cannot wait for another investigation. They cannot wait for the Government to decide what it is going to do with this $200m. The Government has all the reports in the world about this matter. It is time it did something about it. 
The people in the Coomealla area in particular have asked me to put before the Government a suggestion that a loan be made available to them so that they can have the same system as in the Renmark area. In that area there is a special pumping system whereby the people can have the water at the time they require it. On a dull day they can order the water and spray the trees. They think that this system would carry them over until such time as some of these bigger schemes were implemented. But they want to impress upon the Government the urgency of the matter. We have had all the committee meetings and we have had all the expert committee investigations. I think it was in 1970 that Messrs Gutteridge, Haskins and Davey brought down a recommendation on this matter. They comprised one of the best committees that could be found at that time. Everyone agreed with their recommendations but there has been no implementation of their report. We ask the Government to give consideration to implementing some of the other things I have mentioned and to look at the Renmark system to see how this could be applied to the Sunraysia area and to the Coomealla district. Their water pumping system is on the blink. The people will have to spend some money shortly. The Government must see whether a loan can be provided to these people and whether something can be done urgently for our waterways. 
-This afternoon in the debates on the setting up of Parliamentary committees reference was made on both sides of" the House to a number of suggestions which would improve the committee system. I think it is important to make one further point in relation to that matter. In 1977 the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and I appeared on a radio program in Melbourne, the Terry Lane show. The reaction from some of the listeners to that program was one of amazement that a member of the Liberal Party and a member of the Australian Labor Party could appear on a program together and discuss- one might perhaps question whether it was discussed intelligently- the subject of the operation of Parliament. There have been many discussions over the past two weeks in relation to the operation of this Parliament, particularly the way in which the committee system can be improved. 
I make one further point in relation to publicity for the work which committees do. It is not publicity for the sake of publicity or publicity for the members of those particular committees but publicity for the actual work carried out in the hope that the media will take up the work of those committees and engender discussion in the community. If that can take place I have no doubt that the deliberations of" the committees will be improved and we will move away from the situation which apparently exists at presentthat many members of the media consider that Question Time and matters of public importance are the only deliberations in this House worthy of recording. The committees are not sensational; in many cases they are not provocative; but the work they do has enormous impact on the community at large, and the more public discussion we can have on their work the better. I add those further remarks to those made by honourable members on both sides of the House about ways to improve the work of the committees. 
I move now to a matter which some might consider frivolous but which I think has some importance. I mention it not only because there are so many koalas on Phillip Island in the electorate of McMillan. I will not mention the names of honourable members of this House or the other place who are under the impression that koalas belong to the bear species. When on parliamentary visits overseas they love referring to them as koala bears. I was prompted to mention this matter tonight because today's Melbourne  Age  carried a letter from the  chairman  of the Country Roads Board in reply to a letter from one Sonia Graver who was concerned about koala bear signs which she believed had been erected by the Country Roads Board.  Mr Donaldson  makes it clear today that the signs were not erected by the Country Roads Board, that the Board understands that the correct terminology is koala and that the koala has nothing to do with bears. 
If I may make one point in the short time available to me tonight I would ask honourable members to use the correct terminology when they are talking to overseas visitors or are in delegations visiting overseas countries. I am indebted to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  for the scientific pronunciation and I am pleased to be able to refer to him instead of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  who was not available this afternoon. The scientific name for the koala is Phascolarctos Cinereus. Apparently Phascolarctus refers to the Greek pouched bear, hence the misunderstanding by so many people, and Cinereus refers to the ash grey colouring of the bear. I would not like to bore honourable members be referring to some of the old Aboriginal names for the koala, such as Cullawines. In Sydney the expression was koolahs. Of course, people in New South Wales will never get it right. In the Murray region they were referred to as Karbors and other names include Bangaroos, Koolewongs, Namagoons and Colos. The first reference made to the koala was in 1798 and is contained in the historical records of New South Wales. A young man reported on 'an animal which the natives call a Cullawine, which much resembles the sloths of America'. The fact is that it is not a bear. It is an herbivorous marsupial. I will not bore honourable members by referring to the fact that each adult animal consumes about two and a half pounds of leaves per day and that the average male weighs 23 pounds. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, may I ask you to convey in the traditional way to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees my personal congratulations and those of the people of the electorate of McMillan. It is a pleasure to speak in the Address-in-Reply debate following the Speech delivered by the Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen. He was Dean of the Faculty of Law at the Melbourne University. Having personally passed through that faculty, it was no surprise to me that the high office of Governor-General was bestowed on  Sir Zelman  Cowen. 
In the time available to me in the AddressinReply debate I would like to record the Government's position on apartheid in South Africa. The Governor-General made two comments in his Speech relevant to this issue. He said: 
My Government will carry out a continuing program of law reform, particularly with a view to protecting civil liberties and enhancing civil rights. Constant vigilance is required to ensure that the rights of individual citizens are not eroded or ignored. 
In South Africa, since 1948, law reform against the black population has taken a course which has been more repressive each year than the year preceding. I shall refer to that legisltaion later. The Governor-General also stated the Government's fundamental belief:  . . . that a better society can only be realised by giving the men and women of Australia a greater measure of choice, power and freedom. 
There is no freedom in black Africa. The crime of apartheid is one which has been condemned by Liberal-National Country Party governments over a number of years. In 1961 the Australian Prime Minister,  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, stated: 
I am against apartheid because it offends the conscience, against it as a basic policy because it seems to be doomed to a terrible disaster. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in London last year, stated: 
Apartheid cannot succeed even in terms of its own logic. A policy that pretends to foster equal social development but which involves permanent separation of the races and permanent political inferiority on one race will not, and cannot, succeed. 
At the World Conference for Action Against Apartheid in Lagos, Nigeria, on 23 August 1977, the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock),  made Australia's position very clear to the delegates from the 112 nations participating when he declared: 
We are utterly opposed to it as an unjustifiable and repugnant system and we want to see it end as soon as possible. 
We are opposed to it on moral grounds because it constitutes an affront to the dignity of men . . . and is a flagrant violation of fundamental human decency. 
We are opposed to it on intellectual grounds because its arguments are fraudulent and internally inconsistent. We are opposed to it politically, for it is a design for disaster . . . it necessarily involves continued and increasing dependence on repression. 
The August 1977 World Conference for Action Against Apartheid adopted a declaration which included a definition acceptable to the overwhelming majority of delegates and which included reference to the following: 
Apartheid, the policy of institutionalised racist domination and exploitation imposed by a minority regime in South Africa is a flagrant violation of the charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . . . it is a crime against the conscience and dignity of mankind . . . this inhuman policy has been enforced by ruthless measures of repression and has led to escalating tension and conflict. 
I believe that it is a proper time for this Parliament to record its opposition to apartheid for a number of reasons. In its last session the General Assembly of the United Nations proclaimed by resolution that the year beginning on 2 1 March 1978 will be the International Anti-Apartheid Year. The commencing date for the year commemorates the Sharpeville massacre of 1 965. All member nations will be asked to commemorate this International Anti-Apartheid Year to demonstrate a desire to see the abolition of apartheid as a crime against humanity. 
It is also proper to raise the matter in the House this week having regard to the presence in Canberra of  Mr Donald  Woods, former Editor of the East London newspaper in South Africa, the  Daily Dispatch.  Honourable members will be aware that  Mr Woods  is one of the speakers at the International Press Institute's General Assembly and is one of the 'people who have humped the cross of free speech and dissent, who have stumbled under pillory and punishment and bureaucratic bloody-mindedness'. Donald Woods was one of the many people in South Africa banned under the Internal Security Act, that legislation having as a predecessor the Supression of Communism Act. I believe that we must further publicise and oppose the repressive and disastrous features of the South African Government's policy to help balance some of the distorted propaganda which emanates from such sources as the League of Rights in this country or such publications circulating in this country as the  South African News and Views.  In the January 1978 copy of that publication a summary is given of the National Party success in the November elections in South Africa. 
The National Party since coming to power in 1948 has continuously maintained the implementation of apartheid as an essential plank of its political platform. It has won seven successive elections. The 1977 election results were overwhelming. It gained a further 1 8 seats giving it 134 seats out of a total of 165 seats. The election was called 18 months earlier by Prime Minister Vomer at a time when both internal and external criticism of the apartheid policy was on the ascendancy. Unfortunately for the blacks in South Africa there is a direct relationship between increased repressive measures and cries for freedom. Only the whites in South Africa have the right to vote. Of an estimated population of 26 million in 1976, only the white population has electoral franchise despite the fact that it represents only 16 per cent of the total population. Notwithstanding the racial imbalance, the whites control approximately 87 per cent of the total land area in South Africa. Prime Minister  Mr B.  J. Vorster, speaking after his party's return to government, is quoted as saying: 
We want to give them - 
He is referring to the blacks-  the right to control their own education. We want to give them rights in the maintenance of law and order in their cities and local authorities. 
Those words sound fine, but they have a meaning in South Africa different from that in Australia. 
One proposal which was an election issue sought constitutional change to give added status to the coloureds and Indians of South Africa. Under these proposed changes an executive  president  would be appointed as head of state and there would be a separate parliament for white, Indians and coloured groups from which a joint cabinet would be formed under white leadership. Again, it is interesting to note that the Indian populaton comprises 2.5 per cent of the total and the coloured 9 per cent. Nothing is said of the black 72.5 per cent of the population. We had to wait until February 1978 to learn what was proposed for the blacks in South Africa. In February this year the new Bantu Administration Minister,  Dr Mulder,  in the course of parliamentary debate on the Bantu Citizen Amendment Bill, stated that he did not wish to hide the facts but that the governing party's policy, when carried to its full consequences, would mean that blacks would have no political say in South Africa whatsoever. No black South African will hold South African citizenship. The leader of the new Republic Party,  Mr Raw,  interjected with the words 'That is your dream, that is your nightmare ', words, which to quote the Melbourne  Age  editorial of 9 February 1978, had the ring of tragic prophecy. Some people in Australia are quick to condemn those who criticise the South African apartheid policy and many are quick to label opponents as communists or sympathisers of communists. Honourable members will appreciate that this is an easy and simple means of condemnation and one which demands an immediate and unthinking response. 
In the time left to me I wish to highlight briefly some of the repressive legislative measures introduced and passed by the South African Government since 1948 and some of the repressive measures adopted by the police state tactics of the South African regime. In doing so I want to rely on primary sources where possible and certainly rely on reputable independent international organisations like the International Commission of Jurists, Amnesty International and the United Nations. I do not therefore intend to talk about the future of the South African Government should Zimbabwe identify itself with black Africa and apply military pressure to that country. I am not concerned with the type of harangue which comes from the Eric Butlers of this world. The evidence identifying apartheid as a crime against humanity is overwhelming, and in the short time left to me I feel I cannot cite sufficient examples which would raise voices of condemnation from every responsible and thinking Australian. 
I want to talk of government policy and action, of facts not fiction, of the choice or lack of choice between suppression, prejudice, bigotry and imprisonment and that of the right of the individual to live in freedom under the rule of law. In so doing I do not condone the military interference of any nation in the sovereignty of another state. It may therefore be instructive to examine selective pieces of legislation commonly referred to as 'repressive legislation'. Dicey has defined repressive legislation as statutory enactments which violate the most fundamental requirements of the rule of law in that they permit punishment without trial in the regular manner before an ordinary court; such statutes being aimed at preventing free expression of dissent from fundamental government policy by penalising dissenters and those who, whatever their personal opinions, effectively represent the dissenters or support their right to their beliefs. 
From 1948, in its first five year term, the Nationalist Government prohibited mixed marriages in the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act No. 55 of 1949. It reinforced the penalties of 'immorality' across the colour line in the Immorality Amendment Act No. 55 of 1949. It began the complete geographical separation of the races in the Group Areas Act No. 41 of 195 1 which was superseded by Act No. 77 of 1957. It legislatively suppressed communism in the Suppression of Communism Act No. 44 of 1950 which has since been amended on 80 occasions. It commenced the racial classification of every South African in the Population Registration Act No. 30 of 1950. It created a new system of government for Africans in the reserves in the Bantu Authorities Act No. 68 of 195 1 and so on. Africans responded by a series of mass protest meetings as well as by constant minor violence of a sporadic nature. In mid- 1952 the African National Congress publicly called for nonviolent disobedience of apartheid laws, the socalled Defiance Campaign. In response, the Government enacted the 1953 Criminal Law Amendment Act and Public Safety Acts. The Acts were designed to prevent future organised civil disobedience by setting extraordinary penalties for minor violations committed, as it was stated in the Acts, 'by way of protest'. 
South Africa became a republic in 1961 and, following renewed acts of sabotage, riots and most notably Sharpeville, the Government passed the General Law Amendment Act No. 37 of 1963, the so-called '90 day clause'. This Act enabled police to hold any prisoner incommunicado, without any right to habeas corpus, in order to extract information in relation to alleged sabotage or dangerous crimes. Eighteen months later the law was suspended. However, at the end of the same parliamentary session in 1965, the Minister of Justice announced the '180 day clause' Act which authorised 'protective' detention of state witnesses and forbade the courts to interfere. The word 'protective ' is taken from the Act, the Criminal Procedure Amendment Act No. 96 of 1965. 
The late 1960s and early 1970s witnessed a substantiation of the Government's control over apartheid and dissent. Some of the measures introduced included the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Amendments Act, which stated that partners to a mixed marriage contracted outside South Africa could be prosecuted under the Immorality Act if they returned to South Africa and lived together, and the Abolition of Juries Act 1969, which provided for the repeal of laws dealing with trial by jury in criminal proceedings. I could give other examples. 
This period also witnessed a stringent legislative attack on the Press. The Publications and Entertainments Amendment Act 1969 provided that where the Publications Control Board found a publication to be 'undesirable'- that is the word used in the Act- it would then become an offence to publish such material. The Internal Security Act introduced in 1976 maintained and broadened the scope of the 1950 Suppression of Communism Act. It was first gazetted as the Protection of State Security Bill but renamed as the Internal Security Act because the proposed Bill could be abbreviated to the 'SS Bill' which had Nazi connotations. There may be a great deal of sensitivity in South Africans with respect to that connotation. The Act created a 10-member parliamentary commission appointed by the Government to investigate matters referred to it by the government affecting internal security. These matters included suspected activities or suspected organisations. There is no provision for the formulation of any charges against persons under suspicion. There is nothing giving the person under suspicion the right to legal representation or for informing the person under investigation of the allegations existing against him or what evidence is available to support these allegations. The proposals in the Bill have been referred to as measures amounting to legalising witch-hunt. Within a short time of its introduction, the South African Minister of Justice used the powers granted to him under the Act to order the preventative detention of more than 130 people regarded as critics or offenders of the South African policy. 
I made reference earlier in my speech to the Terrorism Act of 1967. This Act is far-reaching and perhaps the most frequently used in South Africa. Under that Act it is regarded as a terrorist offence for any person to further or encourage the achievement of any political aim or social or economic change. Any person would be guilty of an offence under this Act if he encouraged any activity which resulted in embarrassment to the administration of the affairs of the state, obstruction to the free movement of any traffic or prejudice to any industry or undertaking. Any person adjudged under the terms of this Act to have engaged in such activites has committed the offence of participating in terrorist activities. The onus of proof is placed upon the accused to show beyond reasonable doubt the innocence of his or her alleged activities. 
Section 6 of the Terrorism Act provides for detention without charge for an indefinite period. Any person so detained is held incommunicado and therefore denied access to family, legal advisers and independent medical practitioners. The January 1978 report of Amnesty International on political imprisonment in South Africa records that in October 1977 the South African Institute of Race Relations issued figures on the number of people detained. It was estimated that as at 30 September 1977, 662 people were in detention and that between January 1976 and September 1977, 566 detainees had been released uncharged. The Institute calculated that as many as 97 people of those freed had been detained for more than one year. The complexity of laws, by-laws and regulations passed by governments in South Africa to enmesh the black population in its apartheid policy is massive.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a list which gives some simple examples of the nature of these suppressive laws and regulations. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

An African who was born in a town and lived there continuously for SO years, but then left to reside elsewhere for any period, even two weeks, is not entitled as of right to return to the town where he was born and to remain there for more than 72 hours, unless he has obtained a permit. If he does remain without a permit, he is guilty of a criminal offence punishable by a fine of up to R20* or, in default, imprisonment for up to two months. 
* R = rand, the South African unit of currency, which is equivalent to approximately SUS1 .20. 
No African, even if he has been lawfully residing in a town by virtue of a permit issued to him, is entitled as of right to  have his wife and children residing with him. They are permitted to reside with him only if they have been issued separately with permits to do so. 
An African boy, aged 16, who has left school and lives at home with and is maintained by his parents but does not work may, at any time, be arrested without warrant by a policeman who 'has reason to believe that he is an idle person'. 
An African who was born in a town and has worked and lived there for five years may be required at any time to leave that town and take up residence in another African area where he has never lived and where he has no relatives or friends. If he remains in the town more than three days after he has received written notice to leave, he is guilty of a criminal offence. 
An 'obvious white' person who is married to or cohabits with an African or a Coloured person is included in the African or Coloured group, as the case may be. 
The African group includes 'any person who is or who is generally accepted as a member of an aboriginal race or tribe of Africa'. 
Any man, although obviously in appearance a white person, who is married to an African woman is a member of the African group. 
An African employed in a supermarket who refuses to resume work which he has discontinued is guilty of a criminal offence. 
An African factory worker who is absent from work for 24 hours without permission, in addition to being dismissed, (a) may be fined by a Government inspector an amount up to R2, which is withheld from his wages; and (b) is guilty of a criminal offence punishable by a fine of up to R50 or imprisonment for three months. 
A white workman who is permanently totally disabled is entitled to a monthly pension based on his earnings; an African similarly disabled is entitled to a lump sum based on his earnings, but not to a monthly pension. 
An African living in a town who conducts a class in reading and writing without remuneration in his own home for a few of his African friends is guilty of a criminal offence. The 'offence' is punishable by a fine of up to R200 or imprisonment for six months. 
An African religious minister who conducts regular classes for his congregation in which he teaches them to read the Bible is similarly guilty of a criminal offence. 
It is unlawful for a white person and a black person to drink a cup of tea together in a cafe anywhere in South Africa unless they have obtained a special permit to do so. 
A man married or single who is 'obviously in appearance' or 'by general acceptance and repute' a white person and who attempts to have sexual intercourse with a woman who is not 'obviously in appearance' or 'by general acceptance and repute' a white person is guilty of a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment with compulsory hard labour for up to seven years, unless he can prove to the satisfaction of the court that he had reasonable cause to believe, at the time that the alleged offence was committed, that she was white. 
Every African, male and female, between the ages of 1 8 and 65, is liable to pay an annual tax (known as the general tax) of at least R3, in addition to the ordinary income tax payable by all South Africans. 
Every African who is the occupier of a dwelling in an African township is liable to pay an annual tax (known as the local tax) of Rl. 
A white man who tells a group of Africans that the apartheid laws are unjust and should be disobeyed is guilty of an offence punishable by a fine of up to R200 or imprisonment for one year, or both. 
An African who writes ' Down with Apartheid ' on the wall of the house of any person is guilty of a criminal offence punishable by imprisonment for up to six months without the option of a fine. 
No African may serve as a member of any jury empanelled for any criminal trial, even where the accused is an African. 
Any policeman in the performance of his function of preserving 'the internal security' of South Africa may at any time without a warrant search any person or premises anywhere in South Africa and seize anything found on such person or in such premises. 
-I thank the House. The examples were prepared by  Mr Leslie  Rubin at the request of the United Nations. He was formerly a senator in South Africa representing African voters and is now, I believe, a professor of comparative law at Howard University in the USA. 
Another device used by the South African government to control the black minority is the use of the banning order. The Minister of Justice and Police,  Mr James  Kruger, has the power to issue banning orders without preferring charges in court and without giving any reasons therefor. No victim has the right to challenge the Minister's decision in court. 
One interesting example was given by John Berman in the  London Financial Times  in relation to the banning orders served on the organisers in the Black Labor Movement in Johannesburg, Cape Town and Durban in 1976. The Government sought to ban the urban training project. This particular project was helped by a grant from the British Trade Union Congress and the International Federation of Free Trade Unions. It was aimed at providing educational seminars for committee members in basic training in negotiating and conciliation skills. The urban training project was apparently successful. On its first training seminar near Pretoria, 148 trainees from all over the Witwatersrand attended. The absurdity of the banning order is demonstrated in that the urban training projects officials had a reputation as apolitical trade unionists who were highly respected in the more liberal enlightened business circles in Johannesburg. But I guess that one should not waste time seeking logic in the cesspool of apartheid policies applied by the South African Government. Banning orders now can be made under the Internal Security Act whereas previously they were under the Suppression of Communism Act 1950. Banning orders may now be imposed not only against communists or suspected communists but also against any person 'engaged in activities which endanger or are calculated to endanger  the security of the state or the maintenance of public order'. Apartheid has been condemned by the International Commission of Jurists since that body was founded in 1953. It was discussed at length and a resolution passed at the first international congress of jurists in Athens in 1955. On every possible occasion since that date, the International Commission of Jurists has condemned the policy of apartheid and the actions of the South African Government in enforcing the tenets of apartheid which violate the fundamentals of the rule of law. 
I conclude by again referring to the 1978 report of the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize winnerAmnesty International- on Political Imprisonment in South Africa. The report states: 
Stripped of its pseudo-philosophical basis, however, apartheid is seen for what it really is- a justification for the continuing domination of the black majority population by South Africa's ruling white minority.  (Extension of time granted).  The report goes on to state: 
It is a system of institutionalised racial segregation and racial domination which provides for discrimination against blacks in all walks of life. They are denied equal opportunities with whites in education, in employment and, most importantly, in determining by whom they should be led and by whom they should be governed. Blacks are treated as inferior human beings, and are condemned to a subservient role. 
I commend that publication to all honourable members. I conclude by referring to the sad and pathetic case of the death of Steve Biko. With the banning of objective commentators in South Africa, we in Australia increasingly will have to rely upon international independent assessors and those fortunate enough to escape the regime. The case of Steve Biko unfortunately was one of many involving detainees and political prisoners dying in suspicious circumstances. The so called lies which surrounded the activities of the security police in South Africa have at least been consistent over the years. So many detainees have committed suicide by hanging, to quote the police, or have thrown themselves out of the windows of their prison cells. In the inquest which was finally conducted in Pretoria, the South African security police chief stated that  Mr Biko-  I am now quoting from a report in the  Canberra Times  of 19 November 1977- tried to kill himself and was 'apparently set on selfdestruction' before his death in detention. Also reported in that newspaper was a version of what happened by  Colonel Pieter  Goosen, the head of the Port Elizabeth security police, whose version was challenged by Biko's family. He said in an affidavit which was read by Biko 's lawyer: 
The deceased was apparently set on self-destruction even with his method of breathing during detention. 
I conclude by contrasting those words and the picture which was painted of the security police there with the words of Helen Suzman who has been a guest of this country and indeed of this House. She described Biko in the following terms: 
The Vorster people are like lemmings running into the sea. Biko was a moderate trying to reach out to us. 
One could go on for a long time giving evidence of the shocking practice of apartheid which is practised by the regime in South Africa. It comes as a surprise to me that people in Australia who claim to be intelligent can still condone apartheid in South Africa. 
I should like to refer to an interview in a  This Day Tonight  program on IS March between  Mr Sam  Lipski and  Mr Bill  Hartley on the Israeli reprisals following the El Fatah raid of the Saturday before. I will refer to the transcript of that program. It concerns me that the person who introduced the two speakers,  Mr Clive  Hale, perhaps did not properly introduce  Mr Bill  Hartley. To the embarrassment of some honourable members opposite, he was described as a member of the Australian Labor Party and a known advocate of the Palestinian cause. 
When one reads the full transcript one can see that no viewer would have been in any doubt about who  Mr Bill  Hartley is and what he represents. He was described in that interview as having said previously that the Israelis were 'a cabal of murderers who have the gall to claim that they are heading a responsible nation state'. I should have thought that the person introducing him would have gone on to describe Bill Hartley as an anu-Semite and a supporter of the terrorist tactics of El Fatah.  Mr Bill  Hartley described El Fatah as a 'liberation arm of the Palestinian Liberation Organisation and the core organisation of the PLO'. He made another incredible statement when he said: 
Now as far as that operation the other day I defend operations in what basically is occupied territory. 

 Mr Bill Hartley is a man who endorses and defends a terrorist organisation bent on the destruction of Israel. He is a man who supports an organisation which believes that the bombing and murder of civilian men, women and children is an acceptable means of settling international disputes and solving many of the long-standing problems in the Middle East, such as the settlement of Palestinian refugees. If one reads the transcript further one will see that the viewer was given some indication of the twisted mind of this particular gentleman,  Mr Bill  Hartley, when he said: 
The Israeli don 't care about the lives of their own people. If they can reject one Palestinian demand they would be prepared to wipe out half of Tel Aviv to achieve that end . . . 
That absurd conclusion by  Mr Bill  Hartley is fairly typical of the utterances he has made. The people of Israel respect and treasure life. The people of Israel love life, respect it and are prepared to fight for it. To suggest that they would kill their own people in the way in which Bill Hartley has described it is absurd and labels him for what he is. I would label him as a twisted and bitter anti-Semite who is wracked by hate of anything and anyone connected with the state of Israel. 
The action taken by the Israelis was not an act of retaliation. It was prompted by the brutal and senseless murder of Israeli men, women and children. It was an act of self-defence by a sovereign state to protect its citizens. In case there is any doubt about the position of the state of Israel, I refer honourable members to a report on the Middle East of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which was chaired by the former member for Fremantle, who was a highly respected member of this House. In the preface it is stated: 
The stakes are higher for Israel than for almost any other nation on earth- there may well be national extinction and genocide. The Ashkanasy (European) Jews have recent memories of genocide in Auschwitz, Belsen, Dachau and the Warsaw Ghetto. The Oriental Jews have memories  af  violence and expulsion from Arab states. The Jews will not again submit to genocide. They will not be helpless, as were so many of Hitler's victims. 
In conclusion I should like to emphasise a few points. It would be well for people like  Mr Bill  Hartley to remember that the PLO is bent on the destruction of the sovereign state of Israel. No responsible government would tolerate unwarranted, unprovoked terrorist attacks on its citizens. The Government of Israel has no alternative but to remove the source of the terrorism which damages the security and wellbeing of its people. The people of Israel seek peace in the troubled and explosive Middle East area. That is now recognised by the Government of Egypt and  President  Sadat. Israel has been abused. Israel is ready, willing and able to enter into just and peaceful settlement, as are other responsible leaders in the Middle East. I condemn the remarks of  Mr Bill  Hartley. I trust that if he ever appears again on a program such as  This Day Tonight  he will be more suitably described as the twisted man that he is. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.35)- I rise tonight to make the statement that the Fraser Government has set a lamentably low standard of government to open up another three years on the Treasury benches. Those words are not my words or the words of the Labor Opposition; they are the words of an editorial in the national businessmen's daily newspaper, the  Australian Financial Review.  They were not written about the current disgraceful affairs at Aurukun. They were written about the action of the Government regarding increases in health insurance charges, which, of course, is another disgraceful affair. Those words appeared in the 3 January 1978 issue of that newspaper. 
I believe that Australians now remember the propaganda of the Liberal-National Country Party caretaker government in the 1975 election campaign. In that campaign the Labor Government was presented as a crisis-ridden government. Australians will remember the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to put sport back onto the front pages. Unfortunately in the 100 days or so since the Fraser Government was given a second chance to govern the country, in the interests of all, the affairs of the Government have been very much in the headlines. The Aurukun situation is not an isolated case. The health funds affair, the Kerr affair, the International Business Machines affair and the circumstances that led to the resignation of the former Treasurer and present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  have all occurred during the reign of this Government. All these controversies have occurred in the space of three months. They have occurred during the period of office of a coalition government which promised stable government for Australia. Of course, we have been warned that there is worse to come. We have been warned that a record deficit is coming up. I remember the comments made about the deficit during the Labor Government's term of office. We were told that we could not afford our living standards to increase at such a rate. Let us examine what the  Australian Financial Review  has had to say about the present situation. On Thursday, 2 March, under the heading 'Howard changes deficit tune', it stated: 
Faced with the prospect that it will end up with a Budget deficit this year higher than last year's the Government, after continually hammering away at the importance of the size of the deficit, yesterday switched to saying that there was no need for concern on this front. 
Why the Government thinks we should be unconcerned is obvious. The deficit is not used to build hospitals, to extend the sewerage systems, to build homes for young married couples or the aged or to provide employment opportunities, as it was during the term of office of the Labor Government. It is used to give relief to multinational corporations. On 27 March, Philips Industries Holdings Ltd announced that it anticipated an operating loss of $558,000. After using up the various tax concessions and deductions made available by a large deficit, the Philips company made an operating profit of $2,774,000. 1 suggest to the people of Australia that they should compare those concessions and deductions with the cuts that the Government waved around at the last election and which came into effect last February. The Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the Melbourne University estimated that 43 per cent of the benefits from the tax cuts would go to the top 10 per cent of income earners. They have given the Prime Minister another $70 a week. The people of Australia must be constantly on the alert to ensure that the Government bows to the wishes of the people of Australia, including the people of Aurukun, the young married couples, the homeless aged persons and the unemployed. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to the fact that certain agricultural products, such as cheese and sugar-based processed foods, including brandy, are exported to Australia from European Economic Community countries under the benefit of heavy subsidies, and that such unfairly priced imports are creating problems for Australian producers of competitive goods? Is the Minister able to take any action against subsidised imports into Australia of these goods? 
-The amendment moved by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  provides for continued Commonwealth funding to the States for the planting of new softwood forests 'in order to ensure that reasonable continuity of planting rates is maintained '. The honourable member offered no statistical data or other information which would suggest that the Commonwealth should continue to be involved in financing new plantings. The evidence to which I will refer shortly in fact suggests that Australia is facing an over-supply situation- not one of under-supply. The Opposition, in moving this amendment, has made reference to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation on the operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreements Acts of 1967 and 1972. In doing so, however, it would appear to me that the very findings of that Committee have been ignored. For example, the Committee's second recommendation states: 
A thorough independent analysis of Australia's timber should be conducted, taking into account all the variables mentioned by the Committee and in particular the added yield of the native forest which could be gained by more effective utilisation. 
The fourth recommendation states: 
It should be basic to any future softwood forestry agreements Act that a thorough reassessment be made every three years to ensure that the area being planted does not exceed the real needs of the nation. 
Since the deliberations of the Committee there have in fact been a number of inquiries and assessments of the nation's softwood needs and it is because of the findings by that analysis that the Bill before the House makes no provision for funding the States for additional new plantings or the purchase of land for that purpose. 
In the second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  advised that the Government had initiated a review of the need for new planting. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Department of Primary Industry's Forestry and Timber Bureau carried out assessments on this subject. The BAE studies included on entitled 'The Australian Softwoods Products Industry 1977', and the findings which were contained in a paper presented to the Australian Forestry Development Institute at Traralgon in the electorate of Gippsland in October 1977 entitled 'Plantation Requirements for Australia'. The conclusions which were reached in these various inquiries indicated that if the planting of new forests continued, Australia could reach a situation in which it had surplus softwood. As many of the softwood forests are in private ownership and many farmers are presently considering the planting of their farming land to softwood, the consequence of an over-supply situation could be disastrous. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics further advised that in general terms it would be advantageous for Australia to be self-sufficient in softwood products. Again, repercussions would flow from these conclusions, having regard to the importation of forestry products from overseas, particularly from New Zealand and Canada. It is because of the findings of the various inquiries that have been undertaken that the legislation has been prepared in the form in which it was presented to the House by the Minister, providing only for the maintenance or tending of forests which have been planted as a result of Commonwealth funding to States under previous legislation. As other members have mentioned, in this financial year, the total payment to all States for this purpose will be $4.2m. In these circumstances it is strange indeed to read the terms of the amendment moved by the Opposition. In light of the evidence it must be rejected. 
I turn again to the Committee's report on the operation of the Softwood Agreements Acts 1967 and 1972. 1 am indebted to the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  for tabling the findings and the recommendations. It does well for the House to be periodically reminded of the findings of these various parliamentary committees. It was pleasing to note that the Minister and the State governments acknowledged one of the recommendations from that Committee report. On 3 November 1976 the Minister, in his second reading speech on the Softwood Forestry Agreements Bill 1976, made reference to that report. It is refreshing to note that governments take note of the work and ultimately the recommendations which flow from committees of this House. The Minister then acknowledged that the Commonwealth would normally require an environment impact study where forestry areas were to be cleared for the purpose of planting softwoods. The Government further agreed that in the 1976-77 year 'to the greatest extent possible ' plantings would take place only on cleared land. In this current year that problem does not of course arise because the legislation and the proposed agreement relate only to the tending and maintenance of existing forests. 
It was made clear by the Minister in his second reading speech to the 1976 Bill that the States had been advised that should the Commonwealth and States enter into agreements for a further period it would be necessary to comply with the administrative procedures and the terms of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. If and when further plantings take place it is important that those plantings so far as possible are on existing cleared land or if any clearing is required then the plantings should proceed on marginal land and in the latter circumstances only when the Commonwealth has given its agreement after consideration of a report prepared under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. 
In Australia woodlands and forest comprise 1 8 per cent of the total land area of the nation. This represents 140 million hectares or thereabouts. 
Of that area it is submitted that 42.5 million hectares are productive or potentially productive umber producing forest. Analysing that figure further we note that 11.8 million hectares of publicly owned State forest are dedicated for timber production, that is 28 per cent, 1.8 million hectares are comprised in national parks, that is 4 per cent, and other publicly owned forests or woodlands comprise 19.9 million hectares or 47 per cent. In addition there are 9 million hectares of privately owned productive or potentially productive timber which includes areas which are to be converted to agriculture. That comprises 21 per cent. When we consider the Bureau of Agricultural Economics report which anticipates an over-supply of timber if we continue to plant at the relatively high levels which were undertaken under previous Commonwealth-State agreements and we also take note of the scarcity of forest areas on the Australian land mass, it would be tragic to clear native forests for the sake of softwood plantings which may not be required. 
The Minister in his second reading speech to this Bill indicated that the Government will review the funding situation prior to the commencement of the second 5-year period provided for under the proposed agreement. I think it is worth while to reiterate what the Minister said on that occasion. He said: 
Because of the necessity for financial restraint, the Government was not prepared to fund land purchases in the first year of the proposed agreements. It has been indicated to the States, however, that the Government would be prepared to review the situation prior to the commencement of the second of the five years covered by the proposed agreements. This review will be made shortly. 
I firmly recommend that the review be widened. In the course of that review I trust that the Minister will direct those involved to take account of the fact that future plantings of softwood forests should wherever possible be made on existing cleared land. Again I return to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and in particular to the terms of the Committee's recommendations. The Committee, in its findings, noted: 
There is scope for the use of farm wood lots which should be supervised by State Forest Services. 
It also noted: 
Insufficient use is being made of marginal farm lots in the softwood planting program. 
The Committee acknowledged extensive inquiries into the management of Australian timber resources. Reference is made to the inquiry into the National Estate and the rural Green Paper both of which were published in 1 974. In that year, the Australian timber industry also undertook a major review of timber resources and the Forestry and Wood-based Industries Development Conference undertook a comprehensive assessment of all factors associated with the industry- the resource, its development, the commodity demand for forest products and so on. This and subsequent inquiries provide a considerable volume of information to those undertaking the review referred to by the Minister. Here again I am referring to the terms of the review which I hope are widened to ensure a thorough assessment of the forestry industry including projected requirements for the next 40 years. 
I specifically refer the House to another finding of the House of Representatives Committee and respectfully suggest that it and the general findings and recommendations be noted and acted upon in any future analysis of the forest industry in Australia. Finding No. 1 1 of the report states: 
The present Softwood Forest Agreements legislation does not allow for sufficiently long-term planning by the State Forest Services who are primarily responsible for the planting of exotic softwoods. 
Long-term planning is important. To support that contention I give some examples from the electorate of McMillan. In the electorate there are a total of 3,700 hectares of State-owned softwood plantations and 6,800 hectares of privately owned softwood forests. On the other hand, the State-owned native hardwood plantations total 700 hectares. There are 316,300 hectares of State-owned native hardwood forests. In private ownership, 34,300 hectares are native hardwood forests. There are 600 hectares of privately owned hardwood plantations. Total forest area in the electorate of McMillan is therefore 362,400 hectares. There are extensive timbermilling plants in the electorate including those in the Latrobe Valley area, the Noojee district and in the Powell Town, Warburton, Millgrove and Yarra Junction areas. Many sawmillers and timber-getters are presently suffering hardship because of the lack of demand caused primarily by the current depressed state of the building and construction industry. Knowledge of government long-term planning is essential to give these men, their families and the communities in which they live reassurance that they can be gainfully employed in the timber industry. In any review it should be understood that consideration ought to be given to the distribution of forest areas from which timber can be extracted to ensure that an equitable distribution of sound winnable timber is available to all millers of whatever size or influence. Again the findings of the House of 
Representatives Committee support that contention. The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  made reference to this aspect. The Committee found: 
Forestry and the timber industry are important elements in the decentralisation process of a substantial employer of manpower in rural areas where employment opportunities are limited. 
In March 1975 318 individual sawmills in country towns in Victoria were employing 3,750 men. An additional 3,000 men were employed in other rural-based wood-processing industries. As recently as 2 1 March this year in celebration of World Forestry Day some articles appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  One, written by  Mr M.  J. Hall, the Technical Manager, APM Forests Pty Ltd, estimated that 100,000 people, some 2.2 per cent of the work force, were directly employed in forestry and the related wood-based manufacturing industries in Australia. 
In conclusion, I refer to the need for the protection of Australian native forests and the recommendations of the House of Representatives Committee that more extensive areas of Australian native forests should be dedicated as national parks 'as a matter of utmost urgency'. Those are the words of the Committee. The Government respects the need to conserve many areas of our National Estate. In fact this week it has published the first extensive list of those parts of the National Estate recommended by the Australian Heritage Commission as worthy of retention and protection for present and future generations. However, I go further and respectfully seek to implant in the minds of various government departments, instrumentalities and Commonwealth and State Governments the terms of the recommendations in the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the National Estate. In conclusion, I quote the recommendations as they are relevant to the Bill before the House: 
We recommend: that further substantial pine planting, at the expense of native forest, be discontinued until more research has established the effects on the environment of, and the economic justification for, present practices. that wood-chipping operations or other operations involving clear-felling of large areas be discontinued until the environmental effects are better known and properly assessed. 
I remind the House of the findings of the Senate inquiry into that subject. I continue with the quotation from the National Estate recommendations: that all forestry authorities recognise the urgent need to manage, in the most conservative manner, the remaining rain forest areas of Australia. that all forestry authorities ensure that multiple use and conservative management of the forest estate is a primary aim. 
1 . Forest services should enlist specialist assistance to determine what sites of archaeological, geological, biological or other importance exist within State forests and take steps for their protection. 
There have been a number of reviews, reports and examinations on forests and the forest industry, but I respectfully suggest that there needs to be another review to bring this multitude of reports together in 1978. Many factors would have influenced the findings of those previous committees and inquiries. I refer to just two of them: Firstly, the depressed state of the rural industry, which is resulting in many farmers looking to the possibility of planting their farms with timber; and, secondly, the population projections which have been included in the report known as the Borrie report and the significant factors which flow from the projections, which show that, given certain limited projections, not more than 17.2 million people will be in Australia at the turn of this century. 
For these reasons I recommend that a total review of the timber industry and of forestry and conservation issues needs to be undertaken forthwith. I do not think that the amendment proposed by the Opposition would help in any way whatsoever; in fact, I think it would prejudice the industry in the long term. Accordingly, I reject the proposed amendment and commend the terms of the Bill to the House. 
Has the Prime Minister given consideration to the report submitted to the Victorian Government on post-secondary education, commonly referred to as the Partridge report? Is the Prime Minister aware that one of the recommendations contained in that report seeks to have all external studies in the State of Victoria concentrated in the Deakin University at the expense of courses currently conducted in provincial colleges or institutes throughout Victoria? Will the Prime Minister give an assurance to this House that the Commonwealth Government will make its views known to the State Government and to the Tertiary Education Commission on its policy of decentralisation and what place the post-secondary education institutes play in provincial areas in Victoria? I instance Warrnambool, Ballarat, Bendigo and the Gippsland Institute of Advanced Education at Churchill. Will the Prime Minister advise the House of the significance of the Partridge report to the current inquiry being undertaken by the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. In considering the result of the inquiry into national health costs will the Minister take into account the relevance of preventive health in the containment of the national health bill? Does the Minister agree that such preventive measures as immunisation, fluoridation, the role of the community health program, the work of the Anti-Cancer Council and the National Heart Foundation and programs like the 'Life be in it' campaign make a considerable impact on the containment of health costs? Does the Minister agree that there should be a substantial lift in the funds available for preventive medicine programs to arrest the escalation of health costs in Australia? 
-The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  has given us a feast of crumbs and fruit. The crumbs about which he spoke as coming from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  have been in the oven for some time. The Minister has been supporting the concept behind the States Grants (Urban Public Transport) Bill for a period which extends well before the time of the Labor Administration in 1972. That fact is well known to the honourable member for Reid. It is sad that the three-year interruption prevented us from giving the people of Australia an opportunity to enjoy earlier the benefits being bestowed by this legislation. 
I wish to raise two matters in the time available to me. Firstly, I wish to make specific reference to the definition of 'urban area' in the Bill and, secondly, I wish to make some general comments on the need for a national transport policy in Australia. The purpose of the Bill is to grant financial assistance to the States for the purpose of public transport in urban areas. The term 'urban area' is defined in two ways. Firstly, it covers areas such as the Sydney statistical division and the statistical divisions of Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and so on. Secondly, clause 4 of the Bill provides: 
The Minister, after consultation with the appropriate Minister of a State, may . . . declare a specified area in the State to be an urban area for the purposes of this Act. 
One area which I respectfully submit should be declared an urban area at the very earliest opportunity is the Latrobe Valley area in Victoria. It is an area which is certainly well known to the Minister, because a substantial part of the population of his electorate in the city of Traralgon and the shire of Traralgon in fact reside in the Latrobe Valley statistical division. It has a population of 58,380, if one takes an aggregate of the city of Moe, the city of Traralgon, the shire of Morwell and the shire of Traralgon. To that number should be added the population of other small towns in the shire of Narracan. It is Australia's sixteenth largest urban area and it is the largest and most centrally located urban area within Gippsland, which has a total population of 174,890. I mention briefly that the Latrobe Valley sub-region is not a singly, contiguous urban area but rather a number of separate and very closely interrelated cities, towns and villages situated in an approximately 30-kilometre long section of the 22-kilometre wide valley of the Latrobe River. To many planning authorities that would be the ideal relationship, namely, to have an urban situation in which a number of towns and villages comprise the totaly area rather than having one massive urban conglomerate. 
The House will know that the State Electricity Commission of Victoria operates from the Latrobe Valley, which has the largest brown coal deposits in the world. It produces 80 per cent of Victoria's power needs. The Gippsland area generally, if I can just refer to the significance of its energy resources, has approximately 25 per cent of Australia's primary energy reserves, including 30 per cent of Australia's coal reserves, 90 per cent of Australia's proven oil reserves and approximately 25 per cent of Australia's proven gas reserves. Those figures refer to the Gippsland area generally; but specifically the Latrobe Valley area, I respectfully suggest, ought to be declared an urban area under clause 4 of the Bill. 
The second matter I which to raise is the need for a national transport policy. I shall look at some of the international examples of what has been done in the area of transportation policy. In Toronto, Canada, any suggestion that government funds should be spent on facilities for the use of motor vehicles is met with strong opposition. There is a community and political commitment to concentrate on and improve public transportation. 
The provincial Government of Toronto has been innovative in setting up the Urban Transportation Development Corporation. That authority is a private company whose shares are owned by the province of Ontario. Its primary purpose is to encourage the growth of* public transport systems in Canada and to conduct technological research. For example, it has developed and marketed a small bus for use in dial-a-bus systems. The Toronto Transit Commission has operated an experimental dial-a-bus service since 1973. One year previous to that the 
Commission was responsible for 300 million transit trips. 
I am indebted to  Mr R.  W. Hewison, a former Director of Neighbourhood Planning in the City of Toronto, who highlighted the emphasis placed on public transportation in Toronto in an article in the February 1978 edition of the  Royal Australian Planning Institute Journal.  The Toronto Transit Commission has the second highest per capita transit use in North America and, behind New York and Chicago, is the third largest public transport operator in the North American area. Notwithstanding many creative initiatives in the public transport area,  Mr Hewison  concludes that greater emphasis must be placed on the relationship between land use and transportation. That is the very point which I applaud in the comments made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren).  The Transportation Plan Review in Toronto looked to the year 2000 and posed a number of problems and suggested solutions, many of which are relevant to Australia. I briefly refer to them, as outlined by  Mr Hewison: 
The question of whether the Central Area of Toronto will continue to grow unabated or whether growth can be successfully diverted to other centres must be resolved. 
A transportation system focusing on a highly concentrated downtown has problems of congestion and an inherent inefficiency due to directional imbalances in flow during peak periods. A decentralised land use configuration with high density clusters and not too much dispersion is easier to serve. 
On the basis of present behaviour it will be impossible to accommodate all demand for car travel in the year 2000. The use of transit will have to increase to compensate for deficiencies in road capacity. 
I am now talking about Toronto and not Australia, although these words could apply equally to Australia.  Mr Hewison  's article continues: 
Everyone who wants to travel by car in the peak period in the year 2000 will not be able to do so. Transit alternatives will have to be provided for car users if the quality of transportation services is not to deteriorate. 
Finally, he stated: 
The car will continue to be used for a wide variety of off-peak trips in the year 2000, and should be viewed as a complement to transit. There is no evidence to indicate that it will disappear, and transportation planning must continue to take into account both automobile and public transit requirements. I turn now to the situation in the United Kingdom. In 1976 the United Kingdom Government considered a two volume report on transport policy and in June 1977 published a White Paper on that same subject. The earlier report dealt essentially with rail and road transport. The main conclusions published in the White Paper are: 
Expenditure in support of public transport and to moderate increases in fares will not be reduced, as had been planned, despite the declining share of public expenditure which can be devoted to transport. This will mean more support for buses, and less for road construction; more responsibility for planning transport to meet local needs should be devolved to local government since the most practical and democratic approach to co-ordination is local; greater emphasis should be placed on getting value for money, both in the financial regimes for the public sector industries and in the framework for decision-taking on particular schemes and services; there should be a more systematic and open involvement of people, Parliament, transport operators and unions in the continuing debate on transport and the formulation of policy; and this should be promoted by the 
Looking briefly at a couple of those statistics, which measure in thousand million passenger kilometres and as a percentage, the percentage of private road usage in 1 954 was 38.8 per cent. It increased to 79. 1 per cent 20 years later. Rail usage dropped from 19.9 per cent to 8.2 per cent. Bus and coach usage dropped from 41.1 per cent in 1954 to 12.2 per cent in 1974. Air statistics are not significant for the purpose of this argument. In the United States of America the Secretary of Transportation published in 1975 a statement on United States national transport policy. In January 1977 the Secretary published a report similar to the United Kingdom projections to the year 2000. That report was entitled  National Transportation Trends and Choices- to the Year 2000.  Some of the conclusions from that report are even more relevant to Australia than either the Toronto or the United Kingdom projections. I mention some of the issues which were discussed and thought to be important for consideration by people in America concerned with transportation policy. The report stated: 
To what extent should present investment be diverted to provide solutions to expected energy shortfalls in the future? 
To what extent should uneconomic rail services and existing rail facilities for passengers and freight be retained regular provision of information by Government and the industries. 
The difficulties which the United Kingdom Government experienced and which prompted the White Paper are clear when we look at relevant statistics on transport usage over a 20-year period.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing passenger transport in Great Britain. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

APPENDIX 

<graphic href="108131197804136_71_5.jpg"></graphic>

against a possible future need brought about by failure to meet liquid energy needs? 
To what extent, and in what ways, should public policies seek to reinforce trends toward urban density patterns which are deemed more energy efficient? 
To what extent, and in what manner, should public policies be directed to restrict automobile use and to support public transport operations, to assist fuel conservation? 
It is against this background that I suggest it would be timely to prepare, publish and debate a transport policy White Paper in Australia. Much good planning work is being carried out in Australia. I am not suggesting by any means that that work has not been done. In this session, for example, the Minister for Transport tabled a report of progress made to 30 June 1977 under the Transport (Planning and Research) Act 1974. A quick perusal of the projects listed in that report indicates the extent of the extensive research and development projects undertaken and continuing in every State of the Commonwealth. Under that Act the Commonwealth contributes two-thirds of the cost of the projects approved for assistance whilst the remaining cost is met by the States. The States also carry out the implementation of any program. 
In 1947 the Australian Transport Advisory Council was established. Excellent work has been carried out by ATAC since that time. 

<graphic href="108131197804136_71_5.jpg"></graphic>

Therefore, I believe there are very good reasons why we should at this stage adopt a paper which can be debated in the community on the question of public urban transport in this country. Victoria is now incorporating into the deliberations of its transport department the use of the bicycle. Previously the use of the bicycle would have been laughed at. Only recently I saw in China a traffic jam develop between bicycles in Canton. That is quite an experience, and I hope we never get to that stage. I certainly believe that there is a need for bicycle paths, pedestrian paths and so on in our urban complexes. These would take us away from the overuse of the automobile. 
There is also a need to study systems which have been discussed at length in this country by  Mr John  Loder. He has published extensive papers on personal automotive transportation which he calls a PAT solution for Australian cities. There are many instances of local authorities approving planning schemes for the development of urban areas around the country which, at this stage, ought to be making allowances for rights of way for the use of personally automated transportation, whether or not they are similar to  Mr Loder  's scheme. Many countries are spending hundreds of millions of dollars developing systems similar to those recommended by  Mr Loder.  One need look only at the situation in Japan, Germany or America. People in those countries are not spending money for the fun of it. They recognise the need for mobility of people in the community and the way to do it with the least expense, least inconvenience and least frustration in a very involved and complex world. 
I go back to an American example. The Bart Bay Area Rapid Transport system in San Francisco is another exercise which should be evaluated in 1978 terms to see whether any scheme such as that can be applied in any of the urban systems in Australia. I commend the Bill to the House and implore the Minister to take up those two points- firstly, to declare the Latrobe Valley an urban area, pursuant to the powers given to the Minister under section 4 of the Act, and also to prepare a White Paper on transportation policy for debate in the community. 
-There are standards of behaviour to be maintained in this House and, indeed, in all parliaments. It therefore comes as a disappointment to me that a new member of this House with extensive experience in the Victorian Parliament should abuse these standards. It is apparent that the business of the Opposition is at present tightly orchestrated under the new Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The Leader and also the majority of his colleagues stand condemned in that they agreed to include in the Opposition's program General Business motion No. 10 which was moved by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  on 11 April 1978. During the course of that debate, it was stated that parliamentary privilege does not carry with it a licence to slander. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports denegrated himself and attempted to influence similarly this House with his ill-argued censure motion. One could make the uncharitable observation that his actions run parallel with those of the honourable member for Caulfield in the Victorian Legislative Assembly. 
-In that case I will make my comments very brief. I do not want to take up the time of other honourable members who wish to speak in the adjournment debate. I want to make two points very clearly to the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  The first one is, as he said, that no allegation was made against him or his former wife. The comment which was made and the questions which were asked were a demonstration of the techniques which are being adopted by the Opposition, including the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. It was done by me with the same sort of distaste which apparently the honourable member for Melbourne Ports now has to demonstrate a point on the very issue he has raised in the adjournment debate tonight. I refer to the standards of this House. That was the reason for raising that point. I make no further comment on that. 
The other point I would like to comment upon was also alluded to by the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  last night. I adopted a course of action which was a matter of tradition. Apparently it was referred to by the honourable member for Burke last evening. I refer to the notification of an honourable member if some comment is to be made about him. Certainly I would have adopted that course if that was the precedent which had been established by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports when the allegations were made against the honourable member for Flinders  (Mr Lynch).  Those allegations were not notified to the honourable member for Flinders. I have it on his authority that that is the case. I adopted exactly the same course of action. I conclude my remarks by saying that I want to put a couple of mixed metaphors. The first one relates to it being hot in the kitchen. I cannot remember the exact words used. The other one is about putting a bun in the oven. I suggest that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports does not like what is being cooked. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Has he recently visited the proposed Kakadu National Park area? Does he believe that the establishment of this national park is significant for Australia and, in addition, will have international relevance in the preservation of unique ecological and wilderness areas and important Aboriginal sites of world significance? 
It is interesting that this matter has brought on probably one of the best debates in the chamber since I have had the privilege of being a member of parliament. Therefore, I do not want to lower the tone of the debate by reiterating the arguments that have been advanced by honourable members on both sides of the chamber. The question of the principles involved was very finely stated by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  when he said: 'Let us note that while opposition to retrospectivity is a general legal principle in Britain and Australia it is not an inviolable principle'. I think that that needs to go further. We are talking about a conflict of principles. That was indentified by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in his second reading speech when he said that on this occasion the Government was making no apology for acting retrospectively to protect the public revenue. We are looking at the Currantype schemes as being schemes of avoidance and we ought not to forget that they are such and that the public revenue is being lessened as a result of the use of those schemes. 
I do not wish to dwell on that aspect. I wish to make one further point about retrospectivity. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  touched on this matter. I would like to have recorded in  Hansard  some the relevant practical aspects. We are not talking about a group of children under five years of age asking their kindergarten director where is the play dough. We are talking about legal people and accountantsprofessional people who have probably the highest training and experience and who are certainly highly sophisticated in the whole area of tax planning. I have no illusions whatsoever about those people not being well aware of the dangers involved in advising their clients to enter into tax avoidance schemes like the Curran schemes. But if they were not in any way alerted to that sort of situation by their practical experience they would be able to go to some of the textbooks. Any student would say that the  Australian income tax guide  which was published by CCH Australia Limited, is a textbook which in many respects is the bible for this area. A footnote in that volume, after a summary of the facts of the Curran case and a brief statement on the High Court finding, clearly states: 
On 1 December 1974 the Treasurer announced that the Government was considering amendments to the law to overcome the decision in Curran 's case 
If a professional person was not alerted after reading that footnote perhaps he might have been alerted if he had gone to the actual statement which was made by the then Treasurer. A Press statement about it that was released by him on 1 December 1974 was in quite unequivocal terms. 
It stated: 
He expected, therefore, that the foreshadowed amendments would have general application in assessments made after today. 
I emphasise the word 'assessments'. There is no reference to schemes. It was stated that every assessment after that date in fact would be affected by that foreshadowed legislation. The retrospective provisions do not go that far. I think that there is some merit in the suggestion that the retrospective provisions ought to have gone back to 1 December 1974. 
It has been suggested that retrospective law is bad legislation. I think the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)  made that comment. In the not too distant future we will be looking at some amendments to the estate duty law. The amendments will apply retrospectively to 2 1 November 1 977, which is when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  announced that legislation would be effected during the forthcoming session. We therefore come back not to the question of whether retrospectivity is good or bad but to the question of whether warning or clear notice was given. I refer again to the factors I have mentioned, namely, the Treasurer's remarks of 1 December 1974 when he said that assessments made after that date would be struck down by legislation, the statement which was published in the  Australian income tax guide  of the CCH, which was available to all professional advisers and, finally, the general comments that were made on 17 August of last year by the then Treasurer with regard to tax avoidance schemes. 
I conclude by saying that we are talking about practical matters as well as morals and principles. One cannot divorce them. If the practical people involved in this matter did not advise their clients that there was some danger of retrospectivity, having regard to the facts to which I have alluded, I suggest that they would be very likely to be the subject of negligence claims if they have not entered into some of those agreements we have heard about whereby the clients will be refunded the costs which have been incurred in getting this advice from their advisers. 
I direct a question to the Minister for National Development. Has the Government concluded negotiations with the Federal Republic of Germany and Australian State governments to further this Government's commitment to conduct research into converting coal to oil? What is the significance of this research in the context of the development of a national energy policy? If a pilot plant is to be developed will it be sited in the Latrobe Valley of Victoria where the world's largest brown coal reserves are located or, alternatively, will the coal from that  Vally  be utilised in the conversion process wherever the plant is located? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) Is he able to say whether the London based Fairbridge Society is an organisation which makes arrangements for single, divorced or widowed mothers or fathers to enter Australia; if so, on what terms do these persons enter Australia? 
Is he also able to say whether (a) the Society Council is chaired by  Sir Peter  Garran, (b) its Director is MajorGeneral William Campbell, and (c) one of its VicePresidents is a former Defence Minister of the United Kingdom Government and one time High Commissioner to Australia, Lord Carrington? 
Does the Australian Government contribute in any way or make fares available to any person sponsored to Australia by the Fairbridge Society? 
How many immigrants have been assisted by the Fairbridge Society during each of the years (a) 1974-75, (b) 1975-76 and(c) 1976-77? 
Can he say if there is a fanning property owned, rented or otherwise occupied by the Fairbridge Society or its officers or agents, in Western Australia; if so (a) do any of the immigrants or members of their families live at the farm (b) for what periods have they lived there, and (c) what duties do they perform at that farm? 
Taking as an example those persons who were sponsered by the Fairbridge Society and qualified for entry in 1976-77, how are these applicants classified under the Government 's immigration policy? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
How many refugees have entered Australia from South East Asian countries since 1 July 1977. 
) Of those refugees entering Australia, how many have been granted permanent residence. 
How many of the refugees (a) were gainfully employed as at 1 April 1978, (b) have been gainfully employed in the past but are not now employed and (c) are in receipt of unemployment benefits. 
-In the short time available to me tonight I should like to cover matters which are really of some import but which I will touch on only very briefly because of the time factor. I refer to the question of national health expenditure and, in particular, the aspect of preventive medicine and what pan it can play in the containment of health expenditure. I wish particularly to talk about the health of the people of Australia and, in doing so, to emphasise the need for detailed analyses of the health of the young people of Austrafia, particularly those of primary school age. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  recently announced that national health expenditure has risen from $2,232m in 1 97 1-72 to $6,254m in the current year- a matter which has been recognised in the Government's community health program. Unfortunately only approximately one per cent of the national health bill is spent on the community health program and on preventive medicine in this country. On page 46 of a Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care prepared by  Dr Sax  it is stated: 
A growing Austraiian professional constituency asks for more emphasis on prevention of disease, health promotion, health maintenance and health education. 
I would like now to refer briefly to a number of people who have carried out recent surveys on and investigations into the subject matter of the health of young people. I refer firstly to  Mr Brian  Jeanes who did a study at Monash University of the physical performances of primary school children. He indicated that the report would assist physical educationists to devise specific programs to remedy problems in particular children. Despite that report or because of it  Mr Jeanes  has stated that he had little or no objective data on a broad scale on physical profiles of children and claimed that that needed to be systematically collected throughout Australia. 
On 2 1 July 1 977  Mr Ron  Clarke, a well known former athlete who is presently a businessman and still interested in the fitness of Australians in an article in the  Age  newspaper headed 'Teenage fitness declines' looked at the United States situation and commented that last March, that would be 1977, in the United States a newsletter published by the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports reported on a comparison between the fitness of Australian and American teenagers. It was said that compared with the 1958 United States data, Australian boys were almost equal in pull-ups and sit-ups and were superior in all other tests except for the  Softball  throw for distance. It was concluded that in seven years Australian youth had deteriorated so dramatically in its physical fitness levels that its American counterparts were superior in every aspect. In October 1976 I was fortunate enough to undertake a survey around Australia on sport and recreation. One of the recommendations which came out of the report- a wide range of people in Australia was involved- stated: 
The National Policy will ensure that, for example, State Governments undertake ' life be in it ' type programs and that the respective State Education systems change the emphasis in Sport and Recreation from the secondary sector of education to primary level. 
I turn now to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled  Drug problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?  I remind honourable members of some of the facts which were presented to that Senate inquiry. They were that of 3,369 fourth formers in 1973, 24.2 per cent were non-users of alcohol, 75.8 per cent were currently drinking alcohol and 5.2 per cent were drinking on most days. 
I now turn very quickly to a letter I received from  Dr Bert  Willee who is  Chairman  of the Department of Human Movement Studies at the University of Melbourne. He quite emphatically points out that, after having completed in 1969-70 a study entitled 'Youth Fitness Survey', there was a grave necessity to upgrade that report particularly in relation to a survey of obesity in school aged children and in the community. He had evidence which was available to suggest that the problem was widespread. He referred to other matters like the posture of children and stated that 1949 was the last year in which a survey had been done and that obviously there was a grave need to update that statistical data. He also said that the last survey in 1 970 showed that 75 per cent of post primary government schools did not have a gymnasium or covered activity area and that 75 per cent of our children at that level in government schools did not have a planned continuous program of physical education. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Robertson. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 13 April 1978: 
1 ) How many of the refugees from South East Asian countries who have been granted permanent residence in Australia since 1 July 1977, are in receipt of social security benefits. 
) What categories of social security benefits are paid and how many former refugees are recipients in each category. 
I should like to make two comments on clause 20 for the benefit of the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I ask him to take note of them and perhaps convey my concern, if justified, on the operation of the Agreement, particularly clause 20. The first point is that in some cases in Victoria the form of election given to an applicant for a housing commission home does not clearly state whether that person will be a rental applicant or an ultimate purchaser. There have been such cases in the Warragul district and a great deal of confusion has run through the minds of a number of people. They thought they would be in a position to purchase their home. They thought that they had an option to purchase when, in fact, they were only renting their home. This has caused heartache for some people in that area. I do not  know whether this problem is widespread but it needs to be looked at. 
I should also like clarification in relation to sub-clause (2) of clause 20. It relates to the determination and implementation of the policy with respect to sales of rental housing. It provides that the sales of dwellings will be at market value. In determining market value there seems to be some confusion in that tenants who carry out improvements on their property are thereby disadvantaged if they purchase the property. A tenant may be given the opportunity to purchase his own home after he has been renting it for a number of years. Like most Australians he may have carried out improvements on his property. He may have erected a carport, a pergola or sun screens which form part of the fabric of the home and are not classed as chattels. If clause 20 (2) (a) means that he has to buy the home at market value he would have to buy the very improvements which he has carried out to his home. If this matter is relevant to this clause it needs clarification. Representations have been made in the past in relation to this particular problem. Tenants desirous of purchasing their home have been worried that the improvements they have carried out may be taken as part of the ascertained market value. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clauses 26 to 34- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Remainder of the Schedule, including the Preamble- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
-Briefly, one point has been reiterated ad nauseam by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  in relation to the proposed amendment to add new sub-section (3) of section 6. What he has deliberately omitted to do is to state the purposes. Section 6 of Part II- Parks and Reserves of the Act states in sub-section (2) speaks of land: 
. for purposes related to nature conservation or the protection of areas of historical, archaeological or geological importance or of areas having special significance in relation to Aboriginals. 
Reading sub-section 10 in the context of the object there, if the Territory or the State have reserved or dedicated land for those purposes, I respectfully agree with the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  that it is npt unreasonable for the Commonwealth to say that it will not acquire land without first consulting the State or Territory and that it will acquire land only after it has the consent of the State or Territory. The purpose of the Act is to make provision for and in relation to the establishment and management of parks and reserves. There is a joint responsibility between the Commonwealth and State in relation to sub-section (2) and a joint responsibility in some cases, if the area is in a Territory which is what proposed sub-section (3) deals with. I find the amendment quite in order. It is an example of federalism in practice. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  is very reluctant to concede that this factor is capable of solution. He made the specific point that there has not been sufficient consultation between the Commonwealth Government and the State governments or, in this case, in proposed subsection (3), the Territory. This is a classic example of the States and Territory being given the opportunity to consult before acquisition for the purposes set down in section 6 of the Act. I respectfully submit that this is a provision which answers the whole problem of consultation before acquisition. 
Question put: 
That the amendments be agreed to. 
-No individual should be deprived of his rights or his freedom in the terms in which they have been defined by a number of international charters and treaties and, in particular, as they were defined 30 years ago, on 10 December 1948, when the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the resolution which is now known as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is significant that the debate today is being supported by all political parties in this chamber. I would like to outline generally the history of the development of human rights over the last 40 years. The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  will develop those arguments. I wish to record at this stage that unfortunately many honourable members on this side and on the other side of the House will not have an opportunity to speak in this debate. I include the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  a very even-handed man, who has taken an approach on human rights in this chamber. 
We should not turn away from any opportunity to influence the leaders and people of a country that does not respect human rights. If by peaceful means, by complaint, by public identification, by criticism or by example we can break down the bigotry, prejudice or denial of human rights in another country, we must act accordingly. It is now accepted internationally that by so doing a country is not unjustifiably interfering in the affairs of another soverign state. Indeed, it is recognised that we have a responsibility to so act. The events prior to and during the Second World War had a substantial influence on the awareness of and the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the preparation of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The 26 signatories to the declaration of the United Nations made on 1 January 1942 expressed their commitment that complete victory over their enemies was essential to defend life, liberty, independence and religious freedom, and to preserve human rights and justice in their own lands as well as in other lands. 
At Dumbarton Oaks in 1 944 the leaders of the governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States of America met and agreed upon proposals to establish an international organisation to replace the League of Nations and which was to be called the United Nations. The conclusions reached at Dumbarton Oaks included the belief that the United Nations should 'facilitate solutions of international economic, social and other humanitarian problems and should promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedom'. The Charter of the United Nations which was subsequently adopted refers to the problem of human rights in its preamble and in a number of Articles. For example, in the preamble the peoples of the member nations expressed their determination 'to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small'. Article 56, when read with Article 55, provides that 'all members pledge themselves to take joint and separate action in co-operation with the Organisation for the achievement' of a number of objectives which 'the United Nations shall promote '. The objectives include the following: 
Universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion. 
As I stated earlier, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was adopted as a resolution of the General Assembly on 10 December 1948. Accordingly, 1978 represents the thirtieth anniversary of the passing of that resolution. It would be appropriate to highlight the terms of the Declaration. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the terms of the Declaration. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

THE INTERNATIONAL BILL OF HUMAN RIGHTS 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
Adopted and proclaimed by General Assembly resolution 2 17 A (III) of 10 December 1 948 
Preamble 
Whereas recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world, 
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed as the highest aspiration of the common people, 
Whereas it is essential, if man is not to be compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of law, 
Whereas it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between nations, 
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have in the Chaner reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women and have determined to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom, 
Whereas Member States have pledged themselves to achieve, in co-operation with the United Nations, the promotion of universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms, 
Whereas a common understanding of these rights and freedoms is of the greatest importance for the full realization of this pledge, 
Now, therefore, 
The General Assembly 
Proclaims this Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations, to the end that every individual and every organ of society, keeping this Declaration constantly in mind, shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights and freedoms and by progressive measures, national and international to secure their universal and effective recognition and observance, both among the peoples of Member States themselves and among the peoples of territories under their jurisdiction. 
Article 1 
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood. 
Article 2 
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, binh or other status. 
Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-selfgoverning or under any other limitation of sovereignty. 
Article 3 
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and the security of person. 
Article 4 
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms. 
Article 5 
No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. 
Article 6 
Everyone has the right to recognition everywhere as a person before the law. 
Article 7 
All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination. 
Article 8 
Everyone has, the right to an effective remedy by the competent national tribunals for acts violating the fundamental rights granted him by the constitution or by law. 
Article 9 
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile. 
Article 10 
Everyone is entitled in full equality to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of his rights and obligations and of any criminal charge against him. 
Article 11 
Everyone charged with a penal offence has the right to be presumed innocent until proved guilty according to law in a public trial at which he has had all the guarantees necessary for his defence. 
No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed. Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed. 
Article 12 
No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks. 
Article 13 
Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each State. 
Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country. 
Article 14 
Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. 
This right may not be invoked in the case of prosecutions genuinely arising from non-political crimes or from acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 
Article 15 
. Everyone has the right to a nationality . 
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality nor denied the right to change his nationality. 
Article 16 
Men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family. They are entitled to equal rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution. 
Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses. 
The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State. 
Article 17 
Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others. 
No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property. 
Article 18 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance. 
Article 19 
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers. 
Article 20 
. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association. 
No one may be compelled to belong to an association. 
Article 21 
. Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives. 
Everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country. 
The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures. 
Article 22 
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to social security and is entitled to realization through national effort and international co-operation and in accordance with the organization and resources of each State, of the economic, social and cultural rights indispensable for his dignity and the free development of his personality. 
Article 23 
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. 
Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work. 
Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 
Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. 
Article 24 
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. 
Article 25 
Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 
Motherhood and childhood are entitled to special care and assistance. All children, whether bom in our out of wedlock, shall enjoy the same social protection. 
Article 26 
Everyone has the right to education. Education shall be free, at least in the elementary and fundamental stages. Elementary education shall be compulsory. Technical and professional education shall be made generally available and higher education shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit. 
Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religions groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. 
Parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children. 
Article 27 
Everyone has the right freely to participate in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. 
Everyone has the right to the protection of the moral and material interests resulting from any scientific, literary or artistic production of which he is the author. 
Article 28 
Everyone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration can be fully realized. 
Article 29 
Everyone has duties to the community in which alone the free and full development of his personality is possible. 
In the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone shall be subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a democratic society. 
These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 
Article 30 
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity or to perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth herein. 
Whilst some of the language in the Declaration is a little outdated, the whole tenor and concept and the principles therein embodied are as relevant in 1 978 as they were in 1948. It is also sadly true that many nations have failed to abide by the principles which are enunciated in that Declaration. Honourable members will be aware that the preamble to the Declaration provides that 'the peoples of the United 
Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights'. It then proceeds to state in clear and unequivocal terms the rights which every member of the world society should enjoy. It is worthwhile quoting Article 1, which states: 
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act toward one another in a spirit of brotherhood. 
The Declaration is not an international bill of rights. The decisions taken in 1947 and 1948 were not to spell out one international bill of rights but to have a number of instruments to define and state a bill of rights applicable to all nations, the first of which was the Universal Declaration of Rights. 
The other parts of the international bill of rights are the international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights. They were adopted by the General Assembly and open for signature, ratification and accession on 16 December 1966. The covenants, which are binding on all governments which accept them, expand the principles stated in the Declaration in greater detail and provide mechanisms for implementation of the several principles in the Declaration of Human Rights. 
Australia ratified the economic, social and cultural covenant in December 1975. It came into force in this country on 10 March 1976. We have not yet ratified the covenant on civil and political rights. On 28 September 1977 the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  addressed the thirty-second session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York. In the course of his address he stated: 
The question of human rights is too important a matter to be dealt with in terms of rhetoric and gesture; too important to be subordinated to political manoeuvre or made a matter of public relations. 
It is related in the most direct way to questions of human suffering, human dignity and freedom. It we cannot take it seriously we would be better to stop talking about it at all. 
On 9 May 1978 the Foreign Minister made a statement in this House on foreign policy. I was pleased to hear the Minister refer in the course of that statement to the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Minister went on to say: 
The Government is conscious that we have not yet ratified the covenant on civil and political rights. This is a matter we hope to rectify- like most things, human rights begin at home. New legislation will shortly be introduced to give effect to the Government's election commitment to establish a human rights commission relating to Commonwealth laws. 
In an article in the Dyason House papers published by the Victorian branch of the Australian Institute of International Affairs the author advanced five reasons why Australia should sign the civil and political covenant. Briefly, those reasons are as follows: Firstly, the importance of human rights in the interrelationship of people throughout the world. Secondly- perhaps the most fundamental of all- that Australia must be seen to be concerned within its own country before it examines the state of liberty in other nations. An example of that is the status of Aborigines in Australia in 1978. Their contact with the white people of Australia has devastated so many of them. I think it is time that we had another look at the position of Aborigines generally in this country. Another example is in very close proximity, namely, the action of the New South Wales Government in continuing to close its eyes to the denial of basic human rights to Noel Latham of Broken Hill. By their blanket refusal to give him justice by granting to him the right of appeal to a court of law the Premier and the Government of New South Wales must stand condemned in the eyes of the citizens. 
A third reason is that the covenant is now becoming a litmus test for governmental sincerity over human rights. As at January of this year 45 nations had ratified the covenant. It is becoming evident that any government which does not ratify the covenant will have its credibility challenged if it seeks to make comment on the human rights issue in other countries. Fourthly, we are now represented on the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. This is the first occasion since the mid-1950s on which Australia has been so represented. Finally, Australia cannot have a member on the Human Rights Committee unless we have ratified the covenant. Since 1948 much has been done to implement the terms of the human rights covenant. For example, the International Conference on Human Rights at Teheran in 1968 substantially advanced the cause of human rights in the world. This was recognised at the twenty-third session of the General Assembly of the United Nations when it was resolved that the conference had made an important constructive contribution to the cause of human rights and that its results should be translated into effective action by all states, by the competent organs of the United Nations and by other relevant international agencies and instrumentalities. 
Over the past 30 years the United Nations General Assembly has considered and passed a number of resolutions on a wide range of subjects using the 1948 Declaration of Human Rights as its basic reference. For example, there has been action on the problems of discrimination, the status of women, the right of asylum, the administration of justice, freedom of information and so on. The Universal Declaration has also been quoted extensively in considering particular issues which arise in states. One such example relates to the practice of apartheid in South Africa. For example, in December 1963 the Security Council made the following urgent request: 
The Government of the Republic of South Africa to cease forthwith its continued imposition of discriminatory and repressive measures which are contrary to the principles and purposes of the Charter and which are in violation of its obligation as a member of the United Nations and of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
The Government of the Republic of South Africa has done nothing to lessen the impact of its apartheid policy. I refer to the overwhelming evidence of the continued application of apartheid in South Africa, which I outlined to this House on 8 March 1978. Notwithstanding South Africa's position, the influence of the original Charter of the United Nations and more particularly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the covenants and the proclamation have been significant. It is evident that many states still choose to ignore the terms of these human rights documents and to deprive their citizens of one or more of the basic human rights and freedoms to which all people are entitled. Many examples of this are contained in the annual report of Amnesty International for 1977. Honourable members will recall that that organisation was awarded the 1977 Nobel Peace Prize. The Commonwealth parliamentary group of Amnesty International is comprised of members of this House and members of the other place and those members are from all the political parties. They work to have men and women released from prisons where they have been incarcerated because of their beliefs, colour, ethnic origin, language or religion. It should be emphasised that Amnesty International supports no one who has used or advocates violence and under no circumstances are these basic tenets waived or ignored. 
This Parliament has been engaged in the defence of human rights and the propagation of the belief in freedom and in rights for all people. For example, in October 1977 the sub-committee on human rights in the Soviet Union of the Parliament's Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence widened its initial terms of reference to include the following:  . . human rights in the Soviet Union bearing in mind Australia's support for the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the final act of the Helsinki Agreement. 
We have recently witnessed the sentencing of Yuri Orlov, one of the group formed in 1 976 to promote observance in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of the Helsinki Agreement following the 1 975 signing of the Helsinki Declaration by  Mr Brezhnev. 
One of the co-founders of the Helsinki group in the USSR, Ludmila Alexeyeva, in the paper The Orlov Defence ' stated: 
From the beginning the Soviet authorities knew exactly what we were doing. On 13 May 1976 Orlov was interrogated by the KGB about the formation of the group. He was told that no one could doubt that the Soviet Union was sincere about the implementation of the Helsinki Declaration and he was warned that the formation of the group was unconstitutional. Orlov rejected this warning and stated that it was absurd to suggest that a group designed to promote the undoubted policy of the Soviet Government would be unconstitutional. 
It is now well known in every democratic country that the Russian authorities saw fit to sentence Orlov to the maximum penalty for his so-called unconstitutional behaviour. The sub-committee on human rights in the Soviet Union will shortly prepare a report on the subject of human rights in the USSR. I respectfully suggest that every member of this House should read that report thoroughly. 
The Ukranian  Dr Leonid  Pluysh appeared before the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee and gave evidence publicly. Honourable members will recall that  Dr Pluysh  was a leading mathematician who was arrested for his human rights activities and for his efforts imprisoned for approximately four years in a psychiatric institution. I refer honourable members to that part of the evidence which will be published in the report of the Committee. Another example of the actions of parliamentarians is the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. I refer honourable members to the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Council in a number of cases. Because of the time factor, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a document dealing with one such case, the case of John Marie Seroney of Kenya, as an example of the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Union in this area. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Case No. KEN/0 1 -JOHN MARIE SERONEY-KENYA 
Sources of communication: 
Amnesty International, International Commission of Jurists, International Association of Democratic Lawyers 
b ) Outline of the case: 
It emerges from the evidence that Deputy John Marie Seroney, Vice-Speaker of the Parliament, was arrested on15 October 1975, in the precincts of Parliament. He has been detained since then without charges and without having been brought before a court, under the provisions of the Preservation of Public Security Act. On 9 October, while presiding over a sitting of Parliament, he refused to call Deputy Martin Shikuku to order since he considered that the latter was stating only obvious facts. 
Previous treatment: 
This case, which the Special Committee examined at its first session (February 1977), was the subject of a report to the 120th and 121st sessions of the Inter-Parliamentary Council and of unanimous resolutions by it. 
At its 121st session, the Council unanimously approved the affiliation to the Union of the Kenyan InterParliamentary Group. In the resolution it then adopted concerning Deputy Seroney, the Inter-Parliamentary Council urged 'the Kenyan authorities not to delay the release of Deputy John Marie Seroney any longer'. 
Report on the implementation of the resolution adopted by the Inter-Parliamentary Council at its 12 1st session: 
The Secretary General has contacted on various occasions 
the  President  of the Kenyan Inter-Parliamentary Group, 
the Minister of Foreign Affairs and (iii) the AttorneyGeneral of Kenya, and has transmitted to them the report of the Special Committee and the resolution of the Council. 
Reply of the Kenyan authorities: 
By letter dated 9 January 1978, and entitled 'Human Rights of Parliamentarians', the  President  of the Kenyan Group informed the Secretary General that discussions had been started between the Group and the authorities, and that he would keep him informed in due time of the progress made. When this report was issued, no such information had reached the Secretariat. 
f) Decision of the Special Committee: 
The Special Committee, 
Recalling the contents of its two previous reports to the Inter-Parliamentary Council on the case of Deputy John Marie Seroney, 
Referring to the resolutions adopted on this case by the Inter-Parliamentary Council at its 120th session (15 April 1 977 ) and at its 1 2 1 st session ( 30 September 1 977), 
Referring to the provisions of Chapter V of the Constitution of Kenya relating to the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and particularly Article 83 thereof which sets limits to derogations which may be brought into operation under the Preservation of Public Security Act; Section 3 of the Kenya National Assembly (Powers and Privileges) Act; the provisions of Articles 2(1) and 9 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ratified by Kenya on 1 May 1972), and the provisions of Articles 9, 11(1) and 1 9 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
Convinced of the arbitrary nature of the detention of Deputy John Marie Seroney in view of the above provisions, 
Considering that the Kenyan parliamentary, governmental and judicial authorities have not responded to the request for release made by the Inter-Parliamentary Council, 
Recommends the Inter-Parliamentary Council to: 
Urge the Kenyan authorities to release Deputy John Marie Seroney at the earliest possible date; 
State its firm belief that the Kenyan Parliament, as a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, will use its best endeavours to secure the release of Deputy Seroney. 
We in Australia can play a much greater role than we have in the past in ensuring that more nations subscribe to and practice human rights. Until we take a much more active role as a nation and as individuals, through organisations like Amnesty International, we cannot really claim standing in the world as a country fully committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its covenants. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware of a Government committee recommendation in 1976 that consideration should be given to Commonwealth Government funding of sport and recreation, including the raising of revenue by means of a national lottery? Is the Minister aware of the recent lobbying by the Confederation of Australian Sport for the Commonwealth Government to establish a lottery? Is the Government able to comply with that request? If not, is the Government able to assist by encouraging each State government or the Confederation itself to establish such a lottery? Does the Minister agree that increased expenditure of Government funds will necessarily improve the excellence of sportsmen and women in international competition? 
-On 12 September 1977 the 30-year-old founder of the Black Consciousness movement in South Africa, Steve Biko, died in a Pretorian prison. Steve Biko died as a result of security police inflicted head injuries which then led to massive brain damage and kidney failure. The South African Justice Minister,  Mr James  Kruger, issued misleading official statements to the effect that Biko had died in part as a result of a hunger strike. The death of this young black African leader once again concentrated international concern on the practices of the security police in the state which created apartheid. I believe that it is appropriate that this House note the anniversary of Steve Biko's death. I believe that we must continue in our condemnation of the practice of racial politics to the detriment of the overwhelming majority of black South Africans. Donald Woods, the friend of Steve Biko and former editor of the East London newspaper, has published a biography called simply 'Biko'. In it he lists the names of 45 political detainees who have died at the hands of the Nationalist Government's security policy. I seek the leave of the House to incorporate that list in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read asfollows- 

IN MEMORIAM 
The following South Africans are known to have died in detention in the hands of the Nationalist government's Security Police. All were imprisoned without trial, charge, prosecution or evidence. All were denied legal representation and access to friends or relatives. The causes of death alleged by the Security Police are given in brackets. 
Ngudle died in Pretoria on 5 September 1963 (suicide by hanging) 
Merhope died in Worcester on 19 September 1963 (causes undisclosed) 
Tyitya died in Port Elizabeth on 24 January 1964 (suicide by hanging) 
Saloojie died in Johannesburg on 9 September 1 964 (fell seven floors during interrogation) 
Gaga died in Transkei on 7 May1965 (natural causes) 
Hoye died in Transkei on 8 May1965 (natural causes) 
Hamakwayo died in Pretoria in 1966 (suicide by hanging) 
Shonyeka died in Pretoria on 9 October 1966 (suicide) 
Leong Pin died in Pretoria on 19 November 1966 (suicide by hanging) 
Ah Yan died in Pretoria on 5 January 1967 (suicide by hanging) 
Madiba died in an undisclosed prison on 9 September 1 967 (suicide by hanging) 
Tubakwe died in Pretoria on 11 September 1967 (suicide by hanging) 
An Unnamed Person died on an unkown day in 1 968 (death disclosed under questioning in Parliament on 28 January 1969) 
Kgoathe died in Pretoria on 4 February 1969 (slipped in shower) 
Modipane died in prison on 28 February 1969 (slipped in shower) 
Lenkoe died in Pretoria on 10 March 1969 (suicide by hanging) 
Mayekiso died in Port Elizabeth on 17 June 1969 (suicide) 
Monakgotla died in Pretoria on 10 September 1969 (thrombosis) 
Imam A. Haron died in Cape Town on 27 September 1969 (fell downstairs) 
Cuthsela died in undisclosed prison on 2 1 January 1971 (natural causes) 
Timol died in Johannesburg on 27 October 1971 ( leapt from tenth-floor window during interrogation ) 
Mdluli died in Durban on 1 9 March 1 976 ( fell against chair during scuffle) 
Mohapi died in Kei Road on 5 August 1976 (suicide by hanging) 
Mazwembe died in Cape Town on 2 September 1 976 (suicide by hanging) 
Mbatha died in undisclosed prison on 25 September 1976 (suicide by hanging) 
Mzolo died in Johannesburg on 1 October 1976 (no details given) 
Tshwane died on 1 4 October 1 976 ( no details given ) E. Mamasila died on 18 November 1976 (no details given) 
Mosala died in Butterworth on 26 November 1976 (no details given) 
Tshazibane died on 1 1 December 1976 (no details given) 
Botha died in Port Elizabeth on 14 December 1976 (fell down stairwell) 

 Dr N. Ntshuntsha died on 9 January 1977 (no details given) 
Ndzaga died on 9 January 1977 (no details given) 
Malel died on 20 January 1977 (no details given) 
Mabelane died on15 February 1977 (no details given) 
Joyi died on 15 February 1977 (no details given) 
Malinga died in Maritzburg on 22 February 1977 (natural causes) 
Khoza died in Maritzburg on 26 March 1 977 (suicide by hanging) 
Mashabane died on 5 June 1977 (suicide) 
Mabija died in Kimberley on 7 July 1977 (fell six floors during interrogation) 
Loza died in Cape Town on 1 August 1977 (no details given) 

 Dr H. Haffejee died in Durban on 3 August 1977 (no details given) 
Emzizi died on 5 August 1977 (no details given) 
Mogatusi died on 28 August 1977 (suffocation in epileptic fit) 
Biko died in Pretoria on 12 September 1977 (injured in scuffle) 
It is interesting to note that in every case the 45 detainees who died were denied legal representation and access to friends or relatives. It is also interesting to note that about 20 of them are alleged to have died as a result of suicide. In 1977, Amnesty International made a statement to the Centre Against Apartheid under the auspices of the United Nations. In the statement it made the comment that in the course of 1976-77 several hundred people were known to have been detained without charge under the provisions of the Terrorism Act. Details of those detentions are not accurately plotted by Amnesty International but it is possible to get some idea of the conditions under which the detainees were held in the course of 1977. I mention just a couple of examples. In March 1977 it was reported that Tembani Phantsi had been released after being detained in solitary confinement for a continuous period of 513 days. The same month Tankdisizwe Mazibuko, Thomas Manthata and George Wauchope were released uncharged after having been detained for periods of 238, 253 and 279 days respectively. I think that honourable members are well aware that one could go on with many more examples of the periods of detention without trial and without even being charged that occur in South Africa. 
In April 1978 some further information was given by the Justice Minister,  Mr Kruger.  He told the South African Parliament that 250 South frican policemen were convicted of assault, manslaughter or murder in 1977. Of those, four were convicted of murder, 22 of manslaughter, 34 of grievous assault and 190 of common assault. Of those, 22 were discharged from the force. In answer to a question of an Opposition member of Parliament,  Mrs Helen  Suzman, the Justice Minister advised that in 1977, 128 people died in detention under non-security laws. Of those, 2 1 died of wounds during arrest or while trying to escape and 28 were suicides. 
I end with a plea to the Nationalist Government of South Africa to realise the inevitable consequences of its racial policies. South African leaders must be encouraged to examine the inhuman consequences of the many manifestations of apartheid. My cry is for peaceful, not a violent, change. Biko's death must not be forgotten. The cause in which he believed and for which he worked will one day be realised. It must be sooner than later. 
I have spoken in this House on a number of occasions on the subject of the health of all Australians and in particular I have argued that the role of preventive medicine must be urgently upgraded. I take the opportunity in this grievance debate to talk on one important factor affecting the health of some 3.4 million Australians. They are the smokers in this country. My concern is particularly for the youth of Australia, requiring that a massive anti-smoking campaign be undertaken in the very near future. To all those who are smokers- whether they are cigarette, cigar or pipe smokers- who are over the age of 2 1 years and who have presumably made their judgment, I do not apologise, but I do say that I am directing these remarks to the education of young people. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare published a report entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- An Intoxicated Society?'. In that report it is recorded that the Royal College of Physicians in its 1977 Third Report on Smoking or Health' found that of those teenagers who smoke more than a single cigarette only 15 per cent avoided becoming regular dependent smokers. The College also found from its survey that most of the recent slow-down in the rate of improvement of life expectancy and half the difference in life expectancy between men and women can be attributed to the fatal effects of smoking. Smoking is a danger to health. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table from the Senate report which demonstrates the causal link between smoking and disease. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809146_23_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_24_0.jpg"></graphic>

I quote also from that report the following: 
The Committee supports the view of the Commonwealth Department of Health, the United States Surgeon General, the Royal College of Physicians and the World Health Organisation that there is an undoubted association between smoking and a wide range of significant diseases. 
What is the statistical data in relation to adolescents? A paper published in the New Zealand Medical Journal in April of this year revealed some frightening facts. It showed that 977 third year and fourth year secondary students from coeducational schools were studied. Some of the findings were: Thirty-two per cent of the pupils were regular smokers; 1 5 per cent were smoking more than 2 cigarettes a day; and 84 per cent of the smokers started smoking before they started secondary school. 
In considering what should be done to educate or otherwise dissuade young people from smoking it is interesting to note that the New Zealand survey found that only 2 per cent of ex-smokers from this same example of third formers and fourth formers acknowledged that anti-smoking propaganda was only a slight influence on their decision to stop smoking. Interference with sport was given by only 5 per cent and an overwhelming 6 1 per cent stated that personal dislike was their reason for giving up smoking. Notwithstanding those findings, I do not believe that anti-smoking propaganda directed to young people should cease. I will return to that point later. What are the Australian figures? In February 1977 the Australian Bureau of Statistics published a number of preliminary summaries. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a further table which gives the tobacco consumption at that date of all smokers in Australia. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809146_24_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_25_4.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_25_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="110131197809146_25_6.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. Remembering that the national warnings against smoking suggest that tar intake should be kept below ISO milligrams per day to minimise health risk, we should note that only 16.9 per cent of smokers had their daily tar intake below that figure. The Morgan Gallup Poll carried out an Australiawide survey of 1,397 school children aged from 14 years to 17 years in the months between October 1977 and March 1978. They were asked whether they had smoked in the past 7 days. Only 17 per cent said that they had. The results of this survey are contrary to those released by the New South Wales Health Commission in March this year. The Commission found that 49 per cent of boys and girls between 14 years and 16 years smoked tobacco. Further to confuse the statistical position in Australia we should note that in June 1978 the findings of a South Australian survey by the National Health and Medical Research Council determined that 72 per cent of boys and 57 per cent of girls were regular smokers by the age of 1 5 years. 
I refer to a further example which is taken from a report entitled 'Technical Information Bulletin No. 54' from the National Information Service on Drug Abuse. It was a survey conducted in the city of Ballarat with a sample of 1,094 respondents taken from forms 3 to 5 at secondary school and also from tertiary level. That survey dealt with a number of drugs including alcohol and nicotine. In relation to nicotine the paper records that almost 50 per cent of secondary students in forms 3 and 5 smoked and that one in five smoked five or more cigarettes a day. At tertiary level fewer students smoked but, as might be expected, respondents reporting a heavy rate of smoking- 15 or more cigarettes a day- were more prevalent at tertiary level than they were at secondary level. 
In referring briefly to these surveys I have not particularised the basis upon which the questions were asked in each example. It should also be acknowledged that young people may well consider that their maturity is under threat and that by giving a positive response to the question Have you smoked in the past 7 days?' their status is thereby enhanced. The fact that they have not, may, in their opinion be irrelevant. 
To make a comparison with the surveys could lead to inaccurate conclusions. However, it is clear that many students are smoking tobacco in circumstances where they will become addicted to the drug of tobacco. One can also state that many young people are becoming addicted to the drug and that their risk of attracting disease is multiplied by an alarming ratio. 
I turn now to the report by Peter McFarlane in the Melbourne  Age  on 13 September. It appears that the Australian Cricket Board has accepted a $2m sponsorship from cigarette manufacturers and promoters Benson and Hedges. Under the terms of that sponsorship contract the cigarette promoters will present to the Board $600,000 in 1979-80, $650,000 in 1980-81, and $750,000 in 198 1-82. 1 readily concede that the magazine advertising of Benson and Hedges is well designed and usually displayed with magnificent photography before expensive artifacts gently reflecting the gold of Benson and Hedges. But it is not one tobacco company which I believe should be criticised for the promotion of the product which is so closely linked with cancer and other diseases. 
All cigarette packets must carry the words Wanting- smoking is a health hazard'. This slogan is now so familiar that many would now read those words as they read the name of the manufacturer- almost totally irrelevant in the message it is trying to convey. As the promoters of sport and recreation, the tobacco industry should lobby to change the wording to read Warning- smoking is a healthy hazard'. I should like to conclude by referring to some correspondence I have had with  Dr Nigel  Gray, the Director of the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria. In February 1977  Dr Gray  made very clear what the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria considered about the advertising, linking and promoting of cigarette smoking with sport and recreation. I quote from  Dr Gray's  letter 
We are particularly concerned that the Federal Government's decision to eradicate television and radio promotion of cigarettes has been partly, and quite substantially, circumvented by the tobacco industry through their sponsorship of sporting events, their development of a strong association with sporting bodies which has resulted in these bodies becoming something of a public lobby on behalf of tobacco, and also because of the fact that the constant presentation of this association between smoking and sport on television replaces, to an important extent, the image-building advertising the industry was able to utilise in years gone past. 
In conclusion, I refer again to the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- an intoxicated society?' The report contains a number of recommendations which are very relevant to the subject I have been speaking about today. However, I shall quote only three of them. Recommendation No. 46 states: 
That the Federal Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, and the State Ministers responsible for youth, sport and recreation, appeal to sportsmen and sportswomen throughout Australia not to lend their names and prestige to the promotion of tobacco products. 
Recommendation No. 47 states: 
That the Commonwealth Government make any grants to sporting and cultural bodies conditional on their not accepting money from manufacturers and retailers of tobacco products and investigate the possibility of indemnifying such bodies for loss of revenue, at least in the short term. 
Finally, recommendation No. 48 states: 
That the Commonwealth Government consider refusing tax deductibility for expenses incurred in the promotion of tobacco products. 
-My remarks this evening will be related only to the Department of Administrative Services. I hope that I do not lower the tone or value of the debate - 
I will not talk about envelopes about which the honourable member for St George has expressed concern. I want to talk about such mundane issues as the situation in which members find themselves in their electorate offices. I seek to comment on bureaucratic procedures, rules, regulations and red tapesome people like the honourable member for St George may call them the tools of frustration- as they affect the efficient operations of a member of parliament in his electorate. My comments are intended to be constructive, not merely nitpicking. My comments are not directed against my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services  (Senator Chaney),  who has only recently taken over ministerial responsibility for this portfolio. Those of my comments which are critical are aimed at those who deserve censure. I recognise, however, that there are many good decisions made and that those who seek to assist members of parliament in their electorate offices experience frustrations in their own particular way and of a different order. My comments are aimed at attaining a reasonable standard of office accommodation which at least will give staff of members of this chamber the opportunity to act efficiently. Each member could raise a number of minor problems. I will restrict myself to three such problems which I will deal with separately. I imagine,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that other members could multiply by three any particular issue that I might raise. In many cases and in many ways these issues could be considered to be relatively insignificant. 
The first matter that should be noted is the variation in standard between office furniture and accessories available to a member in a city Commonwealth complex of each State and the facilities and equipment made available to suburban or country members. 
Honourable members- Hear, hear! 
I cannot believe that the staff in the city office, the constituents who visit the office or the member need to be impressed by a show of office quality superior to the outer city office. Nor can I believe that the person responsible for this discrepancy deliberately adopts an attitude that second best is good enough for the suburban or rural member. Perhaps I am wrong. 
The majority of members in this place work hard in their electorates. One of the most important aspects of our work is communicating with people in the electorate. It is important that Commonwealth government decisions and details of government policies and programs are widely understood in the community. This is partly done through the media. The freedom of information legislation will go some way in further educating and stimulating public awareness of Commonwealth Government processes. But the local member also plays a positive role. To do this properly a member needs certain basic requirements. He needs a set of his tools of trade, an efficient and capable staff and a high standard of office equipment and facilities. 
Let me give an example of inefficiency and waste of taxpayers' funds. All of the charactersand I say this with tongue in cheek- deliberately mentioned are real and any resemblance to actual persons living or dead are intentional. My secretary for a number of months had great difficulty with her typewriter. The local typewriter mechanic had to make many calls. After several calls the Melbourne office asked that a letter be sent seeking a new typewriter. That letter was sent on 10 May. Further repairs were needed from time to time until it was conceded that the manufacturer should examine the machine. The typewriter was duly sent to Melbourne, a distance of some ISO kilometres, on the basis that it would be repaired, not replaced. A second hand replacement was freighted by mail to Moe, which is 150 kilometres from Melbourne. Because the typewriter was in two parts it was necessary to have the local mechanic travel 25 kilometres to assemble the machine. That was done. But the next day the machine was again inoperative and further repairs were necessary. The original machine is with the manufacturer still receiving attention. My staff have lost count of the days, not hours, of lost time. While they do not sit around twiddling their thumbs, office procedure and office efficiency have been interrupted countless times by mechanical breakdown. The repair and freight costs have added further to the Government loss. I emphasise that the basic tool of a private secretary- a typewriter- has not been available in my office for days on end. The constituent who wants a reply to correspondence has to wait in the meantime and work accumulates and frustrations mount. Frustration is experienced not only by the staff but also by the member, I might add. The constituent is not interested in the excuse that my secretary's typewriter is broken. 
I turn now to another absurd example of lack of flexibility. Under entitlements allowed by the Remuneration Tribunal, a member of parliament is able to receive a number of city or national newspapers on a regular daily or weekly basis. I guess that the costs of that would be approximately $200 per annum. To many members outside the metropolitan area, the local newspapers are of a greater electoral significance. The annual subscriptions payable to enable me to receive copies of each of the ten weekly newspapers published in my electorate would be less than the cost of supplying the Melbourne dailies. For some reason, I cannot effect that saving of national importance. I suppose it would be in the order of some $50 a year. It is a very significant sum! It highlights the degree of inflexibility in the interpretation of government regulations. This inflexibility is similar to the type of delay which constituents sometimes experience in dealing with departments and which often result in contemptuous references to government and so-called bureaucratic red tape. 
The final example I wish to give relates to the situation with regard to the tape recorders which are supplied to honourable members. I make no complaint about the actual tape recorders which are supplied- the actual equipment- but many back bench members employ their two members of staff as secretaries. In my own case, my home is some 80 kilometres from the office, which is located at the other end of the electorate. It becomes necessary to use tape recorders extensively as a means of dictation to staff who handle the enormous volume of paperwork to and from constituents, Ministers and other instrumentalities. Whilst I fully appreciate economic constraints, I do believe it is necessary for both secretaries in offices of members who employ both members of their staff as secretaries to have dictation machines. Office efficiency and cost savings would be immediately evident. Honourable members will be aware that we have available to us in this House the skills of a number of audio typists. The machines they use are of a different type of manufacture from those used generally in electorate offices and are different from the hand machines available to most members. Standardisation of tape recording equipment would generally improve the effectiveness of members. The working conditions of members of this Parliament have been greatly improved over the past few years. However, it is conceded that we have some distance to go before the reasonably high standard which most honourable members would desire is achieved. It may not be achieved until the new and permanent Parliament House is completed. However, the problems associated with electorate offices of members require immediate consideration. I urge the Minister to seek the views of members with the intention of upgrading working conditions and office equipment in the electorate offices of all members. 
In the short time left to me, I turn to a matter which usually gets an airing during the Estimates debate. It relates to the working conditions of Commonwealth car drivers. As I have mentioned, this subject usually gets an airing- I am not playing on words- in the Estimates debate. I am referring to air conditioning for all Commonwealth cars in the pool, whichever State they may be in, even Tasmania. All Commonwealth cars should have air conditioning installed in them. The driver may spend 10 to 14 hours in his car when weather conditions are such that stress and discomfort are extreme during the summer months. I do not understand cars and I do not know anything about them, but I believe we have even reached the absurd situation where the standard fitting of a radio in a particular car which was purchased for use in the Commonwealth pool was removed. A black panel was put in the radio's place because the rule says that no Commonwealth car should have a radio unless it is a ministerial-type car. That is the sort of absurdity at which I think we need to look. 
I conclude my remarks by corning back to the efficiency of members and the way in which they operate within their electorates. At the moment, I think we are being completely hamstrung by the type of bureaucratic irrelevancy which is introduced into maintaining equipment in a first class order and into maintaining offices so that they can function in the way in which most modern offices should function in 1 978. 
-In the 30 seconds left to me, I say that I hope this matter will be developed further. The National Capital Development Commission has many town planners involved in its responsibilities. There are many in this community who would say that planners are destroying our society. That is absolute rot. Planners are involved in the future of our country and they must be protected and encouraged. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Armitage)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to the resignation of  Mr Vorster  as Prime Minister of South Africa. Does the Minister believe that the change of leadership in South Africa will assist black South Africans in obtaining basic human rights? Does he believe that the inhumane practice of apartheid will in any way be relaxed? 
I comment on three matters tonight. The first is the necessity for the national Parliament to adopt a policy in relation to museums in Australia. I am particularly concerned about historical museums. Secondly I comment on the new and permanent parliament house and I will leave any development of that subject to the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem).  Thirdly I comment by way of reference, bearing in mind that the National Capital Development Commission comes under the estimates we are discussing, to the question of the status of planners in the Australian fabric of professionalism in relation to urban development. 
The question of national museums received a great deal of consideration some years ago. A report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections entitled 'Museums in Australia 1975' was tabled in this Parliament. That report included the report of the planning committee on a gallery of Aboriginal Australia. I am not concerned at this stage about the necessity to establish a national museum in the Australian Capital Territory. I am concerned that the Government should adopt a national policy in relation to museums, particularly historical museums, because there is a crying need for such a policy. I am sure that every member of this place has an historical society in his electorate. Each historical society has a collection of artefacts which date back to the early days of this country which in terms of cultural and historical precedent is very recent. For that very reason there are still people coming forward every time there is a meeting of an historical society with artefacts of historical significance which should be catalogued, preserved and made available for future citizens to look at, consider and include in any sort of analyses of what the history of this country is all about. 
One of the difficulties which presently exist is the need for professionalism to be applied to a national museum policy. At the present time we have a great many enthusiastic amateurs very concerned to preserve what artefacts remain of our historical past but at the same time very concerned also to ensure that they be preserved for the future. Without any sort of standardisation whatsoever, many well intentioned people in this country are battling insurmountable odds including, for example, such basic needs as a building in which to put their artefacts and preserving those buildings from damp to ensure that a local government authority supports them in their efforts to preserve the various artefacts which are presented to them. All of these factors are against a background of the lack of a national policy or standard of preservation or recording of the artefacts which are presented regularly to these societies. 
One of the first factors which I believe needs to be stipulated and understood by every local historical society is that there is a national body concerned, firstly, to establish a standard and, secondly, to maintain it. There ought to be a standard means of recording every artefact which presently exists in historical societies or local museums on a national register and that those people who are so surely amateurs and who would concede that they are amateurs have some body of expertise to whom they can turn to ensure that the artefacts which are presented to them usually by old families in the community, will be preserved for the future benefit of Australian citizens. 
The report to which I referred,  Museums in Australia 1975  made one specific point which I would like to quote because I think it is very important to recognise the educational value of historic museums. In paragraph 2.4 of its  Major Recommendations,  the report states: 
As museums have unique advantages as a means of education, and as a large proportion of school children rarely visit them, or visit them without adequate preparation or proper briefing, museums should be used more as a source of formal education and by universities. If necessary, this development should be funded at the expense of certain other facets of the Australian Government's education program. 
I think that that particular aspect of an historical museum within every community throughout Australia should be recognised by this Government and should be part of a national museums policy. To date we do not have that policy. I believe that we should adopt one and do so very shortly, and publicise it to make sure that everybody in the community is well aware of the aspects of that policy. One important element is that it will not cost a penny, not one cent, to adopt the policy but at least all those people who are concerned for the preservation of historical artefacts and the preservation of material which will be beneficial to future generations of Australians will benefit from such a recognition. 
The second point I refer to is the new and permanent parliament house. There is a Joint Committee of the Parliament on the New and Permanent Parliament House which has deliberated regularly, in fact each week the House has sitting, determined to have the new and permanent parliament house at least habitable by the bicentennial of Australia, 26 January 1988. 1 think that the Department of the Capital Territory ought to make representations to the Government to ensure that a decision is finally made to start the planning and the issuing of invitations to Australian registered architects to compete for the design and construction of the New and Permanent Parliament House. Unless that is undertaken very shortly we will certainly lose the possibility of celebrating the bicentennial with the opening of that new Parliament House. I urge the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Ellicott)  to do what he can to have a commitment in this financial year, which will be relatively minor in terms of the monetary contribution, and to have it quickly. Because of lack of time I seek leave of the Committee, if I may go back to the subject of national museums, to incorporate in  Hansard  some eight reasons why there is a need for a national policy. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-Over the past three weeks in this House and particularly in the Victorian lower House we have heard a number of matters which can be described only as discussions which lead to the denigration of Parliament and of every member of the Victorian Parliament and of this House. We have seen tabled in the Victorian Parliament by one Jennings a statement which, because of the denials which have been made subsequently by all those who have been referred to in this commentary- it contains not allegations but comments- can be described only as the inane ramblings of a man who is concerned to destroy people who do not agree with his views on the development, planning or use of land in Victoria. They are the inane ramblings of a man who is determined to destroy and to bring down in chaos everything around him. I have no doubt that the people of Victoria and of Australia generally, of whatever political persuasion, have identified the Jennings' document as no more than a document which is aimed at destroying particular people, namely, the Premier of Victoria and certain of his Cabinet Ministers, because they enunciate a policy which is different from that of the author of the document. What concerns me and what I speak of tonight is the fact that the Opposition has chosen to adopt a tactic similar to that of Jennings by fishing, by using smear tactics and by adopting innuendo which is aimed not at policy or at governments but personally against people, without there being any foundation in fact. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports interjects without knowing to what I am referring. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports knows full well that the Leader of the Opposition in Victoria has chosen to agree, as we have agreed, that the explanation of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports is acceptable, that the allegations against the honourable member for Melbourne Ports which are contained in the Jennings' documents have no basis in fact, and that at the same time some strange differentiation should be made when talking about the Government in Victoria and members of this Federal Parliament. I must suggest that whether they be against the honourable member for Melbourne Ports or the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  the scurrilous statements, allegations and innuendoes which have been made have no foundation in fact and ought not to be the subject matter of debate in this chamber. People who associate themselves with Jennings and with the allegations and comments which have been made label themselves as people who are bent on one purpose only- to get some cheap political advantage at the expense of a member of parliament. 
There is very little time left, but might I ask whether it is being suggested by the Opposition that all those public servants in the Department of Urban and Regional Development, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Department of Overseas Trade who were referred to today and who were associated with the document of 10 April, and those people who are associated with Mallesons, Irish, Young and Outhwaite or Stephen Charles, Q.C., are part of a conspiracy which is aimed at the denigration of members of this House. I would have thought that members of parliament in Victoria who are associated with this matter, the member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and the member for Melbourne Ports would recognise the professionalism of those particular people. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I was rather aggrieved that the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  was not able to complete his speech in the limited time available to him in this debate tonight. I think that what he was going to go on to say if he had had sufficient time was that next Saturday in Melbourne one of the greatest events in Australian sport will take place at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. I refer to the grand final between North Melbourne and Hawthorn. Tonight I would like to pay tribute to the twenty or so sportsmen on each side who will run out on to that ground to the applause of 100.000 spectators and goodness knows how many millions of people who will be watching it on television in the typical Australian style, with a cigarette hanging out of their mouths and a glass of beer in their hands. I want to pay particular tribute to one team, namely, the Hawthorn football club, and to all its players. I would like to record in particular the names of 10 members. 
I ask honourable members to listen to the names because they are so significant. I will divulge the reason. One player is  Mr Peter  Knights, who came from the Longwarry football club before he went to Hawthorn. Geoff Ablett came from the Drouin football club, as did Kevin Ablett.  Mr Peter  Russo came from the Pakenham football club.  Mr Alan  Goad came from Korumburra, which now happens to be in the electorate of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon). Mr Peter  Benmeth came from the Pakenham football club. Leon Rice came from Moe. Len Patch came from Yarragon, Barry Rowlings came from Moe and Peter Welsh came from Longwarry. The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown),  who is a great follower of the sport of Australian rules football, is anxious to know from where those 10 players came. Of course, they came from the electorate of McMillan. Those players will take on anybody who is nominated by any member of this place. Even people from Perth recognise the significance of the electorate of McMillan when it comes to raising and breeding football players. 
One could go on. If the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  were in the House I would have mentioned the name of Ray Card, who came from the Morwell area and played with Geelong. I am sure that there are honourable members on the other side of the House who are interested in this. Maybe even the honourable member for Burke would recognise the Footscray players, Terry Wheeler and Gary Wheeler. I will not take up the time of the House further. I wish both North Melbourne and Hawthorn every success. They will give a lot of pleasure to many people next Saturday. In particular, I am sure that the Hawthorn football club will be triumphant. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
How many community television antenna systems (CTAS) have been installed throughout Australia. 
In what localities and on what dates were the systems introduced. 
Of the systems established, which of them have been disbanded or otherwise taken over by any Government department from the community committee which initiated the system. 
Of those systems in Victoria, at what cost were they installed and what is the annual maintenance fee to each of the members/recipients of the television system. 
Was a CTAS established in the Electoral Division of Braddon in 1964; if so, has it proved satisfactory in supplying an adequate television service to the Wivenhoe community. 
Is he able to say whether there are similar systems operating in the United States of America; if so, is he also able to say whether the Federal or any State Government in any way subsidise CTAS in that country, and to what extent. 
When is it anticipated that the 3-year planning and construction program to extend the national television service will be completed, submitted and made public. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware that the leader of a delegation to the South Pacific Conference in Noumea last week posed the following question: 
How much longer are we the island countries, to allow ourselves to be treated in this insulting and paternalistic way by some of our partners? 
Is he further aware that that statement was endorsed by a number of other delegations to the Conference? Will the Prime Minister advise whether Australia is concerned to play any part in the development of the South Pacific countries and, if so, what role it will play? Is the Government concerned to reinstate Australia's position in the South Pacific to ensure that all states and territories are aware of our commitment to the Canberra Agreement and our desire to join in the economic, social, community and cultural development of the peoples of the South Pacific? 
Is the Prime Minister aware of a statement which is reported in today's issue of the  Australian  that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Bob  Hawke, considers that the National Employment Conference convened by the Victorian Premier is becoming more and more a useless exercise'? Has the Commonwealth Government in any way varied its decision to support  Mr Hamer's  initiative? Is  Mr Hawke  correct in stating that the Commonwealth Government will be inadequately represented? What role will the Commonwealth Government play at this important and significant conference? 
I rise tonight to speak about the United Nations, today being United Nations Day. On 24 October 1945 the United Nations was formally constituted. I take the opportunity to speak on the work of the United Nations, its aims and objectives. Five minutes is not sufficient time to deal adequately with the work and significance of the United Nations organisations. Accordingly, my remarks will be in summary form. The contribution by the Australian Government to the United Nations in the current financial year is estimated at $23,418,000. There are some people in the community, indeed in this House, who would advocate that the United Nations and its various agencies be dismantled. The usual argument in support of that proposition is based on an erroneous belief that the work of the United Nations is dominated by a group of developing nations of the Third World which usually are described as socialist in philosophic outlook. 
Whilst it is true that power blocs have developed in recent years with many Third World countries in a dominant position, the work of the United Nations in the political, economic and social spheres remains fundamental to peace and international co-operation. The minority on the extreme right of politics in this country advance an argument that any member state of the United Nations surrenders her sovereignty. This disordered logic proceeds to conclude that a member state's policies can be influenced, if not dominated, by nations of a different political philosophy. Some of the more recent ramblings of members of the League of Rights have suggested that the new international economic order has resulted in Australia's economic policy being distorted by, and in the sole interests of, the developing countries to the detriment of the Government's internal economic policies. This, of course, is nonsense. 
The time available tonight will permit me only to summarise some of the excellent work being undertaken by one or two of the United Nations agencies. In 1974 the general Assembly of the 
United Nations created the 36-member World Food Council. The Council has been described by the United Nations Secretary-General, Kurt Waldheim, as the highest political body in the world which deals exclusively with food problems. This financial year Australia will contribute $12,137,000 to the World Food Program. That program was established by the United Nations and the Food and Agriculture Organisation to provide food to developing nations. There are two aspects of the assistance. The principal purpose of the program is to stimulate and advance economic and social development. Assistance accordingly is given to projects which will improve the health and skills of coming generations and establish the infrastructure for their economic development. At the end of 1972, 550 projects in 88 countries had been approved under this program. The program provides funds and personnel to assist the victims of emergencies such as earthquakes in Chile, Greece, Iran, Nepal, Peru and Turkey and flood and hurricane victims and those suffering from the effects of droughts in Afghanistan, Botswana, India, and Mali and so on. Refugees and displaced persons also are fed through United Nations agencies. 
One could go on and talk about a number of other agencies which are assisted specifically by the Australian Government. For example, this financial year the United Nations Development Program will receive $6,820,000; the United Nations Children's Fund, $1,800,000; the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, $420,000; and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, $640,000. There are also a number of world conferences which are significant, such as the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, the United Nations Water Conference, the International Conference on Developments in Nuclear Power and the Nuclear Fuel Cycle, the United Nations Conference on Desertification, the Review Conference on the Sea-bed Treaty, and the United Nations Conference on Technical Co-operation among Developing Countries. 
In its current session we have seen recently a general assembly devoted to disarmament. More particularly on that subject we have seen a special report by a United Nations expert group on the economic and social consequences of the arms race and military expenditure. That group also highlighted the significance and importance of the Disarmament Conference if its findings were implemented internationally. For example, the World Health Organisation has spent some $83m over 10 years to eradicate smallpox in the world. That amount would not suffice to buy even a single modern strategic bomber. I conclude by making a plea in terms used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock).  When addressing the United Nations General Assembly, he stated: 
But the one crisis that cannot be risked is a crisis of confidence in the United Nations itself. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Home Affairs. What Commonwealth Government support is given to Australian artists and to the visual arts in this country? What is the present level of expenditure by the National Gallery on the purchase of works by Australian artists? Does the Minister consider that sufficient funds are being expended by all governments on the patronage of Australian artists? 
It concerns me to hear Opposition members for whom I have respect apparently get on the bandwagon and attack the Victorian Government for obvious political reasons. I refer to the comments made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  One of the points that needs to be made effectively is that many aspects of public transport and transport funding require a total reassessment in the context of a national policy. I would be the first to admit that. I must challenge the attacks made by the honourable member for Batman about the lack of bicycle tracks, paths and money provided by the Victorian Government. One of the most exciting Ministers to tackle those very aspects is the Victorian Minister. The honourable member for Batman gave an example in Geelong which is being used as a test case. Apparently it is working very effectively. There are other examples around Victoria. It is not a matter for the Commonwealth Government to get involved in funding projects of that nature. They are essentially State and local government matters. It is fine for us to make forceful points about the need for those matters but, after all, they fall within other jurisdictions. 
Simply because a member of the Opposition cannot read in the newspapers about a particular program or an investigation which is being undertaken or hear about it through other media it does not mean that the Federal Government or a State government is not undertaking exciting work. I have no doubt that before the next election- in fact I can guarantee it- a number of new initiatives will be undertaken by the Victorian Government which will answer many of the allegations made by the honourable member for Batman about what he sees as deficiencies in some of the more exciting innovations in Victoria. I must record that point now so that it cannot be said that my colleague has been responsible for the matters initiated in Victoria. At present two major investigations are being undertaken on road funding. One is being undertaken by the Advisory Council for Intergovernment Relations and the other by the Bureau of Transport Economics. I have no doubt that the results of those findings will highlight many of the points which have been made by speakers during this debate. I think it would be pertinent for us to think at the same time about the adoption and implementation of a national transport policy within the whole framework of Federal government financing in the roads area. 
One matter which needs to be investigated is local government funding. I could not agree more with the honourable member for Scullin that local councils in relation to funding for roads do not know what will happen from one year to the other. There is a very real need to quantify the Commonwealth Government contribution in percentage terms and to devolve that percentage as part of personal income tax collections to local government for distribution in accordance with the States Grants commissions investigations on priorities and so on. I think that matter will gain some discussion and popularity within the next few months. The honourable member for Batman raised some other points. There is, of course, a need to introduce programs which will conserve energy and other resources. I have no doubt that they will be introduced. He mentioned some of the programs which have been experienced in other countries. For example, on some of the major freeways in San Francisco lanes are devoted to public transport and to those people in a private vehicle who are travelling with more than one passenger. Apparently, such measures are working. We need to look at them in this country. 
I want to make three points about public transport planning. Firstly, there has been a deterioration in the fabric of the road systems around Australia, particularly where heavier vehicles are using the facilities. Perhaps we are talking about rural Australia. But buses are becoming bigger, brighter and better. They are carrying heavier loads. Tranport vehicles, particularly timber jinkers, and vehicles transporting milk in country areas are causing great deterioration to the fabric of the roads. This is putting an enormous burden on rural municipalities. This factor has to be taken note of before an enormously rich national asset is completely wasted. The second point concerns the commuter, the person who will be using public transport within urban areas. We need to look at the use of personalised automative transport, such as the dial-a-bus system and small vehicles on rails which will be linked to distant train services. A lot of work has been done overseas in this area but very little has been done in Australia. This is another aspect which we need to include in our national tranport planning policy. 
Thirdly, the environmental and aesthetic aspects of road planning are generally taken into account although I fear that many transport planners do not take account of the social and community factors in road works and planning, particularly in the laying of major roads and freeways through communities. Such aspects need to be taken into consideration. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which identifies very clearly the dangers people in Victoria experience using country roads vis-a-vis urban roads. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

-That table shows that last year in Victoria 493 car drivers, passengers and motor cyclists died on country roads compared with 208 killed on Melbourne roads. A very sobering statistic which I think is accurate but I cannot give the source- I would like to have it checked- is that one child in 12 under the age of 15 years is likely to be seriously injured in an accident in Australia. For those who are concerned about road deaths these salutary statistics need to be taken into account in a national transport policy. 
-I will be brief because I know that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  wishes to make a very important point on the adjournment debate. I would like to refer to last might's adjournment debate. I ask the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  to listen for a couple of minutes. He and the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  last night made one or two comments that I think require an answering comment from myself. I was referred to by the honourable member for Prospect in relation to alleged land deals in Victoria. The honourable member for Robertson apparently hinted to the honourable member for Prospect that there can be no greater cause at present in Victoria than that of getting rid of a mob of crooks. I would like tonight to register surprise that two parliamentary colleagues whom I thought considered matters of ethics and responsibility rather seriously could make allegations without any supporting evidence. That is the old tactic of the smear merchants and campaigners like the Jenningses of this world-  Mr Jennings  in the Victorian Parliament- who think that because they simply make reference to a particular point it can then be stated as a matter of fact, that it hangs around in the minds of people without being capable of being disproved, however much proof is brought forward. 
The honourable member for Prospect made a reference to somebody sitting two seats back from the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr N. A. Brown).  That happened to be me. 
I do not mind identifying myself. I have no worry about that at all. The comment was that I had taken a fairly definite stand on the question of land deals in Victoria. That, in the way in which it has been put, is quite wrong. I took a definite stand in relation to one particular issue, along with 474 members of the Liberal Party in Victoria, in expelling a particular member, the member for Westernport, Douglas Jennings, from the Liberal Party. It had absolutely nothing to do with the land deals, it had to do with matters that were relevant to the Liberal Party, as they would be to the Australian Labor Party- questions of loyalty, adherence to policy, platform and constitution, and denigration of a party. That was the issue that was at point there and I am surprised that the two honourable members opposite should try to interweave my name with land deals in Victoria. 
Leaving that to one side, what really concerns me is something which is being practised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  at present. I refer to tactics of denigration by generalisation and by glossing over facts.. 
As the honourable member prompts me, character assassination. How can a person make a mistake about names when serious allegations are being made by a Minister of the Crown? To confuse the name of Creighton Walsh with that of Allan Walsh suggests to me that there was a great deal of deliberateness in a tactic that was applied. To come into the House 24 hours later and apologise by making the statement: 'I think I may have used the wrong name', and in fact saying it for the second time during the debate this morning, seems to underline the fact that the Leader of the Opposition is not capable of dealing with matters in a responsible way. To come into the House and deliberately to confuse names and make allegations against a Minister of the Crown which are very serious ought to be deplored. I hope that the people of Australia take note of that issue. 
I conclude by returning to the issue of people denigrating groups. I refer to the Victorian Parliamentary Liberal Party being called a mob of crooks. If they are, name the crooks. Name the facts behind the allegations, but do not be cowards and hide behind denigration by generalisation, by the use of that tactic. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. It is recorded on page 2870 of  Hansard  that last evening in the adjournment debate the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  made certain allegations which, in respect of me, could only be a gross misrepresentation. He made reference to the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and to the sub-committee which is chaired by  Senator Wheeldon  and which is currently investigating human rights in the Soviet Union. The honourable member stated: 
I challenge members of the Liberal Party, who of course have adequate representation on that sub-committee, to look at the record of attendance at meetings of the subcommittee. 
He went on to say that the sub-committee usually consists of only the following four members: 
.  Senator Wheeldon,  myself- 
That is, the honourable member for Prospect- 

 Senator Sibraa, and the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  before he became ill. Those are the four who always make up the sub-committee. 
He further said: 
For practical purposes, the other members of that subcommittee are non-existent. They do not attend. 
I have taken the trouble to obtain a list of the sitting dates of that sub-committee since I have been involved with it during the life of this Parliament. The first meeting was held on 5 April 1978 and the last one was held on 27 October. Fourteen meetings were held of which I attended eleven. I put in an apology on 11 May and 12 May. On those occasions I was representing the Government as one of its three representatives at the Advisory Council for Inter-Government Relations in Melbourne. On 1 1 October I recorded an apology. On that day I was with  Senator Sibraa  who is another member of that subcommittee at the South Pacific Conference in New Caledonia. I note- I do not want to make any point of this matter because I think the error is quite obvious- that the honourable member for Prospect attended 12 of those 14 meetings and I notice that  Senator Sibraa-  again I emphasise that I make no point of it- attended only nine meetings. I seek leave to incorporate that attendance list in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-In reply to the honourable member for Corio, I emphasise that I make no point of the non-attendance of  Senator Sibraa.  Undoubtedly he had a valid excuse for not attending as I have no doubt the honourable member for Prospect also had a reasonable excuse for not attending on the two occasions on which he was not present. I go back to the point which is the basis of my complaint that the honourable member for Prospect claimed that no member from the Government side attended those meetings. Out of the last 14 meetings I attended eleven. I respectfully suggest that the honourable member for Prospect be given the opportunity to apologise. 
-I will not delay the House any further. I simply want to emphasise that I believe that there is a grave risk continuing where quarantine inspection is being carried out of a carton of flowers which may contain perhaps 500 stems. Whilst there is only an examination of between one to 100 of these 500 stems, it remains quite clear that a number are not examined or fumigated in any way. I appeal to the Minister to take the matter further and make mandatory the fumigation of all cut flowers into this country. 
-During the  adjournment debate last evening the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  and the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  sought to make a comparison between the operations of the State Council of the Victorian Liberal Party and some resolutions that were passed by the State Conference of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria. They tried to demonstrate that there was some hypocrisy in those operations and that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was indulging in that practice. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports alleged, as reported at page 2991 of Hansard, that I had made certain statements before the State Council of the Liberal Party of Victoria expelled one Douglas Jennings. He stated that his source of information was a newspaper. The Fourth Estate is a great estate but I do not think that it is always accurate. One point he made was that I had informed the Prime Minister of all the matters which were under review prior to that expulsion motion being considered by the State Council. That is certainly correct and I think not unusual as the Prime Minister happens to be the leader of our party. I should have thought that courtesy would demand that I inform him. The honourable member also alleged that the Prime Minister knew all about it and approved of it. Under its constitution the Victorian Branch of the Liberal Party operates under a secret ballot system in respect of such matters and I can say - 
-I would like to cover only one aspect in relation to the Quarantine Amendment Bill 1978. Whilst I applaud the increased imposition of penalties at which the Bill is primarily aimed, I believe, as other honourable members have indicated, that other actions need to be taken in the quarantine area. I will take one matter which was raised by the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey). 
It refers to flower imports and the likelihood of infestation from insects coming into this country. I rely on a paper which has been prepared on this subject. It states: 
Entomologists estimate that there are about 5 million insect species world-wide, and the CSIRO considers that Australia has about 50,000 of this number. We have only 500 insect pests of plants in Australia- so far. 
There are approximately 6,000 plant diseases (2,000 for pasture and forage crops, 800 vegetables, 1,600 fruit and nuts, and 1,400 ornamental plants) that have not reached Australia- yet 
The concern which is being expressed by flower growers and importers is related to insects which are likely to infest and destroy crops being brought into this country. I do not think there is any doubt about them coming in. I will just refer to a paper which was prepared by  Mr Morschel  the Director-General of Plant Quarantine, to answer representations which had been made to him by the  President  for the time being of the Flower Growers Branch of the Victorian Farmers Union in August 1 977. He stated: 
There is no denying that pests about which little may be known will survive on cut flowers exported to Australia from the other side of the world. 
He went on to explain that some quarantine inspection is taking place. I think it needs to be recognised that in 1977 there were reports of spotted alfalfa, blue-green aphids, oriental fruit fly and giant African snail coming into Australia. I will now refer to a quotation from a  Mr Begg  who has made representations to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  I might just record here my appreciation for the Minister reacting very quickly when representations were made to him including representations from  Mr Begg  who is on the consultative committee which was established to examine the dangers inherent in the importation of cut flowers.  Mr Begg  states: 
Other pests will arrive here and some will hitchhike on unfumigated flowers and then move to main food crops. To name just two of many that will affect flower growers, home gardeners and farmers alike, the Japanese Beetle feeds on 275 kinds of flowers, fruits, vegetables and pasture crops; the omniverous leaf roller will eat alfalfa, celery, citrus, cotton, lettuces, sugarbeet, melons, strawberries, begonias, oleanders, carnations, chrysanthemums and roses. Neither of these insects is here yet and yet we allow unfumigated flowers in from areas where these pests do great damage. 
A number of learned authorities would also add weight to the seriousness of the situation of not having a total fumigation of all cut flowers as they come into this country. I think in 1977 approximately 12 million stems came into Australia at a total value of $661,000. It is a growing market; it has increased considerably since 1971. Professor Boodley who is the Professor of Floriculture at Cornel University states: 
There is very definitely a disease and insect risk with a shipment of plants and flowers from one country to another. 

 Dr McCain, Extension Plant Pathologist at the University of California, states: 
I would be concerned about flower imports into Australia from areas that had diseases not already present in Australia. 

 Dr Michael Hollings who is perhaps the world 's leading virologist states: 
There is bound to be a risk in importation of cut flowers without fumigation for pests or checks for pathogens. 
Nobody is suggesting that there should be a complete cessation of importation of cut flowers Some of the cynics might say that the greatest noise is being made by the flower growers in this country. They are not concerned to stop importation; they are simply concerned to stop infestation by insects coming into this country and destroying crops which are such a valuable part of our domestic product. Without wishing to delay the House too much, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a question and answer summary which resulted from the representations that I mentioned earlier. It is the paper which was released by the Victorian Farmers Union and which contains comments by the VFU and comments by the Director-General of Plant Quarantine,  Mr Morschel.  I think those comments very much highlight the fact that more action is required. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I congratulate the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  on his excellent summary of the state of the dairying industry in Australia. I do not intend to waste the time of the House by going over some of the material which he has covered today. Before the House is the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Amendment Bill- in itself, a very simple Bill- which basically extends the definition of dairy produce' in section 4 of the Act. Of course, it is noted from the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  that the Dairy Produce Sales Promotion Act 1958 provides that the Australian Dairy Corporation has the charter of promoting the sale of dairy produce in Australia. 
I would like to look briefly at the situation as it was three years ago, at the position as it is today, at what sort of future the dairy industry may or may not have, and at whether governments should be doing more to assist the industry in stabilising the dairy farmer and his expectations. I have said in this place before that the dairy industry in 1975-76 was at an all time low, that the farmers were moving away from the country areas, that families were being broken up and that young people who normally would have gone on to the dairy farms of their parents had decided that they could not get a living out of it, and therefore, had moved away from the farms. That was the situation all over Australia, but particularly in Victoria. Now the average age of dairy farmers is in the fifties. The industry ought to be very concerned about encouraging young people to come back into the industry if the industry is to be stabilised and the expectation of a stable income realised. 
In 1978, 1, 100 farmers left the industry in Victoria. As  Mr Bill  Pyle, the  Chairman  of the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria, said in his annual report to the conference of that organisation in the middle of 1978, that represented three families going out of country areas in Victoria each day. It does not need too much intelligence to see what impact that will have on rural Victoria and particularly on the major towns which supply the goods and services for the country areas. There has been a sociological change of some magnitude in those areas, particularly in rural Victoria where the dairy farmers are the majority interest in the rural pursuits. Three years ago the industry was in a state of great flux. The various industry organisations could not seem to reach agreement and there was a world market situation which meant that the prices being received for products, particularly skim milk powder, were below the costs of production. Generally, there was major chaos in the industry. It was fortunate that after a lot of good work by many people still associated with the industry that the United Dairyfarmers of Victoria was formed and we started to see some stability. 
There was also a time when the dairy farmers turned, perhaps reluctantly, to the Government for assistance. I think it would be conceded that the Government would not want to interfere with the promotion of products from the rural industry, but we did have a situation where that became necessary because so many people were facing bankruptcy or were virtually in a bankrupt position. The whole industry was in a state of collapse and it needed Commonwealth Government intervention and support. That was forthcoming. However, the question of the industry and its future was recently highlighted by the  Chairman  of the Australian Dairy Corporation,  Mr Tony  Webster, when he addressed a workshop seminar in Canberra earlier this year. One of the points  Mr Webster  made was that it was a matter of major difficulty for the Corporation in the current financial year to administer the marketing arrangements because of the tension between pricing for both domestic and export markets and because of the return to the pool for export markets and the level of Commonwealth input to reach the underwritten level. He then gave the example that, on the domestic market this financial year, the price for butter oil is currently $1,060 per tonne compared with an underwritten level for butter of $ 1 ,240 per tonne. In other words, there is a gross subsidy of $180 before pool costs are deducted. On the other hand, on the export market butter oil at $750 per tonne attracts an export subsidy of $490 gross. 
That highlights the difficulty which the Australian Dairy Corporation will have in making projections for future years. It will also make it very difficult for governments to make decisions which will bring stability to the industry. Other figures that are worthwhile looking at to illustrate the difficulty of preparing budgets in this context are the production figures for dairy products in 1978 and the previous year. For example, in 1977 there were 76,032 tonnes of butter produced, whereas in 1978 there were 75,790 tonnes- down 0.3 per cent. Also in 1977 there were 68,070 tonnes of skim milk produced compared with 7 1 ,296 tonnes in 1 978- an increase of 4.7 per cent. In 1977 there were 60,828 tonnes of cheddar gouda cheese produced compared with 71,748 tonnes in 1978- an increase of 18 per cent. They highlight the problems which the Australian Dairy Corporation will face when it tries to make projections and bring some stability to the industry. 
I suppose that promotion is what we should be talking about in this discussion on a Bill dealing with promotion to be undertaken by the Australian Dairy Corporation. Speaking at the Outlook Conference in Canberra,  Mr Tony  Webster said that in 1978 there was an 80:20 blended product called 'Dairy Soft' test marketed. The Minister in his second reading speech referred to that particular product being tested on the market in South Australia, and we should see the result of that particular promotion in June this year. It is something which is likely to cause quite an impact on the use of butter at the consumer level. Hopefully, it will be a success for the dairy industry in other States.  Mr Webster  also referred to cheese consumption. Although there has been an increase in cheese consumption, I think there is enormous scope for additional consumer education in regard to the consumption of Australian cheese. For example, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation undertakes an enormous amount of research into the preparation of exotic cheeses, or cheeses other than cheddar cheeses, and these cheeses ought to be promoted much more. I can talk here about a product from my own electorate, a very tasty cheese from the Drouin Cooperative Company. I gave a slice of that cheese to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and I understand it has made such an enormous impact in the Northern Territory that we ought to be having a great sales promotion of that product in the Territory. 
In Japan there has been an increase in the cosumption of cheese, particularly Australian cheese. That is the result of what is expected to be a long-range change in the dietary habits of the Japanese people. We can anticipate that, with proper marketing, and as a consequence of government to government negotiations, there will be a greater use of cheese by the Japanese people. 
Perhaps the biggest sales success of all is the Big M' campaign in Victoria which is being undertaken by the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority. That campaign, as I understand it, commenced on 1 January 1978. The figures for the 12 months from that date speak for themselves. An additional 30 million litres of 'Big M' milk has been sold in Victoria. The gross value of retail return to the industry is $20m. In terms of total milk consumption there has been an increase of 28 million litres. That is a 6.84 per cent increase in total milk sales for the year ended 3 1 December 1978. 'Big M' represents 8.6 per cent of all milk sales. Not only has it meant an increase in actual sales but also, I think it can be safely said, the success of its promotion has stopped a further decline in milk sales in Victoria. One needs only to go into the supermarkets in Victoria and look at the shelves and the freezers- the cold areas- and see what is now promoted on those shelves. We see much more promotion of cream, yoghurt, butter and cheese. We see better packaging. We see a whole new impact being made by promoters of dairy products. 
If we compare the 'Big M' campaign in Victoria with the campaign in Tasmania we see even more startling statistics. The franchise for 'Big M' is operated through the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority to Tasmania. It was launched on 22 October 1978. If we look at the progressive sales totals to the end of January 1979, we see that 'Big M' sales amount to 1,584,646 litres and that the sales of whole milk amount to 10,643,339 litres. 'Big M' has therefore represented an increase of 14.9 per cent of total liquid milk sales in that State. That is almost a total add-on to what is called the white milk sales in Tasmania. The campaign has been a quite incredible success. Those who have not had the pleasure of looking at the 'Big M' advertising on television should do so. I think it might even replace the Coca Cola advertisements in the awards for the current year. That would be good for the health and well-being of young people in Australia. One other promotion that has been undertaken in co-operation between the Victorian Dairy Industry Authority and the Dairy Corporation is the 'Milk It Instead' campaign. That campaign can now be said to be national. It is starting to have an impact on the sales of white milk throughout Australia. 
The final matter to which I would refer relates to the selective underwriting which was battled through at a time when the industry was crying for help from government. I was very pleased that the Victorian Minister of Agriculture,  Mr Smith,  made an announcement on 20 February which removed many of the doubts that were starting to creep back into the minds of the dairy farmers as to whether the Government would let them down in relation to underwriting. On that day the Victorian Minister stated quite categorically that Victorian dairy farmers would receive a State Government grant of $3.2m during March of this year. He stated:  an interim payment of the underwriting of dairy products, promised by the State Government to raise dairy farmer returns from $1.65 a kg, which was promised by the Federal Government, to $ 1 .76 a kg. 
That represented the total return to the Victorian farmer. I understand that Victoria is the only State which is underwriting dairy products. I shall quote the Victorian Minister because I think it should be well known that this decision has been taken by the Victorian Government. Every dairy farmer in Victoria should be aware that there has been a joint co-operative effort by the Commonwealth and State governments in underwriting products of dairy farmers.  Mr Smith  said: 
The interim payment of S3.2m will be on production from 1 July to 3 1 December 1 978 and the balance of about $ 1 .8m will be paid in two payments- one as soon as the production figures to the end of June this year are known, and the other when the equalisation pools run by the Australian Dairy Corporation, are wound up and the prices obtained for the various dairy products are known. 
The question of promotion of dairy products is one which must be pursued vigorously by the Australian Dairy Corporation and by anybody who has any interest in the welfare of dairy farmers in Australia. The amendment which will be moved in Committee amplifies the definition of 'dairy produce' and ought to be welcomed by those in the industry. It ought to be welcomed by the consumers because it means that a much greater impact will be made on the consumer by the advertising and promotion of products which are healthy and helpful to the Australian population. 
Is the Treasurer able to advise whether a decision has been made by the Reserve Bank of Australia to extend finance through the Australian Dairy Corporation to dairy product manufacturers for maturing stocks of cheese other than cheddar and gouda? 
-Many points have been made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  with which I heartily agree. However, I think that honourable members on this side of the House must take issue with his comment that there is a lack of vision and courage, to use his words, in looking at sport, recreation, leisure activities and the health of the nation. There is a great deal of evidence to support me in this respect. I hope to cover some of it in the course of the debate tonight, notwithstanding the fact that we are debating the National Fitness Amendment Bill 1979, not a policy statement on sport, recreation, national health and preventive medicine. Those aspects, in particular, have been taken up by the honourable member for Robertson. I do not intend to add much more other than to say that parts of what he said are correct. There is a great need to be more aware of the role which recreation and leisure will play in the future of our country. There is a need to increase substantially the amount of one per cent of our national health bill currently spent on preventive medicine. 
More importantly- I hope the honourable member for Robertson will listen before he leaves the chamber during such an important debate- there is a need not to politicise this issue. There ought to be concert on both sides of the House. All parties should be concerned about the future health and welfare of our people. I think that is what the honourable member for Robertson was talking about but he will gain nothing by trying to politicise the subject and by saying that people on this side of the House are not concerned with it. They. are. Many honourable members in this House tonight, such as the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for Lillee  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  attended a conference on this subject in Brisbane in 1976 and met with sporting administrators and recreation officers. To come into the House and try to gain some political advantage by saying that only the Opposition is concerned with the matter is wrong. It will not advance the cause of recreation, sport and leisure in Federal Parliament. I pay the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  a compliment. He certainly introduced some exciting programs during the previous Administration. One should be charitable and compliment the honourable member. When he was Minister for Tourism and Recreation he commenced a program which created an awareness in many people of the need for the Federal Government to be more concerned with sport and recreation and the preventive aspects of health. 
Before I turn to the exciting 'Life. Be In It' campaign, which was started in Victoria in 1974 after a number of surveys, I shall make a number of points. The honourable member for Robertson mentioned the situation in Canada. After the 1978 Commonwealth Games in Edmonton, a number of comments were made to the effect that Australia's performance was very poor. It would be interesting for the honourable member for Robertson to read some of the comments made by the athletes who met on the day the Games ended to discuss the reasons for their poor performance and to put the blame on the shoulders of those who had to wear it. The reasons need to be examined in close detail. It is not simply a matter of saying that money will buy the sort of performance which many people would like to have seen in Edmonton or Montreal. We cannot buy gold medals at the elite level of the Olympic Games. But if we have a total approach throughout the community to fitness and health our elite athletes are likely to obtain a greater performance at the international level. I refer to a statement made in 1977 by the Minister for Fitness and Amateur Sport in Canada, the honourable Iona Campagnolo, in a speech in the House of Commons. She said: 
The goal of this government is to ensure that the athlete, at whatever level of competition, is regarded as a fullfunctioning productive member of society . . . to see that sport, fitness and recreation is acknowledged by one and all as a full-functioning part of that culture which is Canada. No more the sweaty athlete syndrome. No more the denigration of the athletic scholarship. No more the culture which is divided between artists and athletes. Athletes are artists and some artists are athletes. 
I think those words could be well echoed in Australia at this time. They are words which are recognised by this Government, words which are recognised by the incumbent responsible for sport, the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  In 1971 in Canada the Fitness and Amateur Sport Directorate was established. It has two basic arms. One is called Sport Canada which I will deal with in some other debate. The other arm which was established and which is important to tonight's debate is called Recreation Canada. Recreation Canada is concerned with encouraging Canadians to participate more fully in sport and various recreational activities. Some of the funds for those programs which have been so keenly put forward by the honourable member for Robertson in fact came from the Canadian lottery, Loto Canada. It will not go unnoticed by those who are following the progress of the Government's development of policy in this area that the former Minister who was responsible for sport and recreation made it very clear that a great deal of discussion was going on with the State governments. Discussion had reached the stage- I ask honourable members opposite to look at the State governments which are particularly holding action in this matter- where agreement had been reached to introduce a lottery into Australia which could well help to fund sport and recreation here. 
It also needs to be stated- I could not agree more with the statements which have been made in this debate- that Australia spends a relatively small amount on sport and recreation compared to other countries. We need to spend more. We recognise that we have to spend more money and I have no doubt that once we get the economy back on its feet, as we are trying to do and in fact are starting to achieve, we will be spending more money in this area. We will not spend it until the adoption of a policy in this area. For example, the Canadian Government gives $ 1.46 a head to sport and 92c a head to the arts. The British Government gives 47c a head to sport and 77c to the arts. In 1956 we won 36 Olympic medals at Melbourne and were the third nation in the world at that games. In 1976 we won five medals at Montreal and finished thirty-second with no gold medals. I repeat the point- I was referring to some figures which were given by the newfound friends of the honourable member for Robertson, the Confederation of Australian Sport, in a letter written to the Minister- that there is no relationship between the expenditure on sport and excellent attainment in the winning of gold medals. 
Tonight we are discussing the National Fitness Amendment Bill which is about the very thing which will achieve more excellence in sport than merely spending money on elite sports. If honourable members opposite do not believe that, I invite them to study some statements which have been made by elite sportsmenstatements which indicate whether they think that only the spending of money will improve their circumstances. The athletes themselves will say- apparently there are some honourable members opposite who consider themselves experts on this subject- that they believe we will have much more chance of success in getting gold medals into this country by spending money at the grass roots levels, at the jogger level, at the community level than by spending money on the elite sportsmen. By spending money at the grass roots level excellence will bubble through the system and the elite sportsmen will reach the top. Ask Don Bradman or some Australian Rules footballer who is sitting on the front bench at the moment whether he had money spent on him and whether he achieved the peak of his sporting career without one cent being spent on him by any government. I put that point because the honourable member for Robertson mentioned Les Martyn Apart from being involved in the weight lifting sport in Australia he was also the general manager at Edmonton. He is also the Director of the Confederation of Australian Sport. On the Australian Broadcasting Corporation program,  Four Corners,  on 30 September 1978 he was asked what his views were with regard to amateurism and whether in fact Australia should be doing more in relation to the spending of money to in fact improve the number of elite sportsmen. He answered: 
But I think underlying the whole factor, and the thing that worries me most, is the loss of national pride in this country. I think we've got a situation now where excellence is not important and it is this lowering of standard that I think is underlying the biggest factor. 
That is a man with experience who the honourable member for Robertson put forward as a spokesman on the subject. It puts the lie to the statement that money will buy  Olympic  games medals for this country. I also refer to the remarks of another leading sportsman, Ron Clarke. In the Melbourne  Age  on Wednesday, 1 3 December 1978 he made a comparison between Australia's expenditure on sport and that of France. When he visited that country in 1978 he said that the Budget was being discussed by the French Government in the lower House and that the House of Representatives had recommended that 8 billion francs- that is about $ A 1.61 billion- be spent on sport. This was rejected by the Senate as being insufficient funds. He said: 
Imagine, $A 1,6 10,000,000 for sport was considered insufficient. 
He went on to make the point that if Wayne Reid, the  President  of the Confederation of Australian Sport was offered an equivalent amount on a per capita basis it would amount to about $400m. The point that  Mr Clarke  was making in that article is that we cannot buy excellence in sport by pouring lots of money into the coffers of those who are concerned with elite sports in this country. 
I turn now to the National Fitness Amendment Bill. This particular program, the 'Life. Be in it' program, was an exciting program introduced by the Victorian Government. I guess that we will get some grudging acknowledgement of this fact by honourable members opposite. It was introduced after a great deal of investigation by the then Minister- he is still a Minister-  Mr Dixon.  In 1974 in Victoria it was decided to take up this particular program with, I might add, funds from the Federal Government under the previous Administration. This program was encouraged by the Labor Minister, the honourable member for Grayndler,  Mr Stewart.  Victoria took up this program and was able to brief Monahan, Dayman Adams (Vic) Pty Ltd to introduce a campaign which is now running throughout the country at a national level. Let us look at what some of the experts have to say about this campaign.  Dr Willee  the head of the Department of Physical Education at the University of Melbourne in September 1977 stated: 
I have recently returned from overseas where I spoke to, screened and led discussion on the film and program 'Life. Be in it' of our Victorian Government. The program was received with enthusiasm; its uniqueness, excellence and proven effectiveness were sources of wonder for physical educators, recreationists, physicians, sociologists, and psychologists alike. 
It should not go unsaid that the West German Government has commended the study as meeting high program standards. It is a study which has been taken up by the West German Government in its methodology and has in fact been seen as a precise statement of the ideals which the West German Government was keen to introduce in a recreation program in that country. Of course, it has come into our country as a national program in September 1 977. 
I would like to refer quickly to some of the statistics which will prove the success of the national program, 'Life. Be in it'. A market survey was taken by Morgan Research Centre Pty Ltd. It was commissioned to conduct a survey on behalf of the national committee on the weekend dated 27, 28 and 29 January 1979. The results of that survey are quite startling. In deciding to limit its investigation to four areas- the recognition of television commercials, the recognition of the secondary promotional material, the underlying purpose of the 'Life. Be in it' program and who was responsible for conducting it- the committee was mindful of its plans to conduct a full-scale evaluation of its program later this year. The results of the survey can be taken only as indicators because there were only 1,122 respondents aged 14 years and over selected on an Australia-wide basis. It should be emphasised that it is only an indication. In relation to the impact of television commercials, it was stated that since the 'Life. Be in it' campaign went national in November 1977 an amount of approximately $400,000 has been spent in television advertising. The market research survey provided the opportunity to test the effectiveness of this expenditure by gauging the community's recognition of the commercials. Respondents were shown a series of stills from the television commercials and asked: 'Have you yourself ever seen any of these TV advertisements?' Care was taken to ensure that the words 'Life. Be in it' did not appear in the stills and that the respondents were not prompted. Respondents were also asked what they thought was being advertised. 
The most significant results are tabulated and I will give those figures in a moment. In every case they are extraordinary. For example, in Victoria 94.6 per cent of people recognised a particular still. A reading of 45 per cent for a sustained television campaign is generally regarded as reasonable, with findings above 55 per cent being remarkable. If one went through every State one would see that the lowest figure was 82.6 per cent and that Victoria had the highest figure at 94.6 per cent. That is not surprising because the Victorian screenings have been going on for a longer period. The commercials achieved the highest recognition in Victorian country areas at 97.4 per cent, and the recognition figures decreased with the age of the respondents in the following manner: From 14 to 24 years of age, 98.4 per cent; 25 to 35 years of age, 92.4 percent; 50 years of age and over, 76.6 per cent. 
If one looks at the promotional material one can see that since the national campaign was launched $41,000 has been spent from national campaign funds on the production of stickers, posters, badges, caps, leaflets, et cetera, again an overwhelming recognition by all the respondents to the questionnaire. An interesting finding in this section is that young married couples between 14 and 34 years of age without children- I will leave it to the honourable member for Robertson to interpret this; he is much more skilled than I am- had a higher reading at 80 per cent than similar age married people with children at 76 per cent. It would have been expected that children would have brought many of the badges, stickers, posters, balloons and so on into the home and that the figure for families with children would have been higher. As to responsibility for the 'Life. Be in it' campaign, it was emphasised that anonymity was a very important part of the program. It is interesting to note that a paper will be published shortly by the Minister giving a great deal of information in relation to this survey. 
I think that we need to look at the results in relation to the purpose of the campaign. Respondents were asked the following question: 'To the best of your knowledge, what do you think is the main purpose of the "Life. Be in it" publicity campaign?' The answers to this question are indefinite and the implications unclear. However, if we look at the national level and compare it with the Victorian level, where the campaign has been going for some time, 20.3 per cent of the respondents said that exercise was the purpose of" the program and in Victoria the figure was 20.2 per cent. At the national level, 18.1 per cent said that health was the purpose and in Victoria 18.2 per cent. As to outdoor activities, the national figure was 17.3 per cent and the Victorian figure 21.1. per cent. At the national level, 16.8 per cent said that fitness was the basic aim of the program and in Victoria the figure was 21.4 per cent. Again, 13.9 per cent at the national level said that to be active was the purpose compared with 17.7 per cent in Victoria. The important point there is that people do not believe that we are trying to advertise through the 'Life. Be in it' campaign that Norm is a person who should be emulated. There is no doubt that Norm is a man who should get off his backside, as he has done in these television commercials to the sound of enormous refrains from a massive orchestra. There is no doubt that people think that that is what he should be doing. They are not reading into this that it is a campaign to encourage people to relax in front of the television. In fact they can see that there is a health and exercise aspect involved and that people should not sit at home but should get out and do something about active participation in their leisure time. 
I have very little time left, but I will very briefly summarise a number of points that I should like to have made. There is a need to update the Australian Youth Fitness Survey of 1971. There is a need for it to be reprinted and a demand for it. I understand from  Dr Willee  that many researchers, students and recreationists are concerned to get copies of the report and that they are finding that difficult. I therefore implore the Minister to have the 1971 report reprinted. There is also a need to conduct a substantial survey in order to update the report to 1978 terms. As other honourable members have said, there is a need to look at the sports medicine aspect, and at the area of preventive medicine, particularly in relation to schools. There is a crying need for education to include in its curricula at both primary and secondary levels substantial programs of fitness and recreational activities, to have standards at which all members of the community can aim, particularly the young people, who are Australia's future Olympic competitors. 
-Does the Minister for Health agree that the yearly escalation of ill health costs to the Government could be contained by greater concentration on health education and extensive use of preventive medicine programs? For example, is sufficient emphasis given to the establishment of physical education standards in primary and secondary schools throughout Australia? If not, can we forecast possible future  problems for the health and welfare of the Australian people? 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' (first occurring) be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: this House is of the opinion that the Commonwealth Government should not pay any medical benefits for or in relation to the termination of pregnancy unless the procedure is performed in accordance with the law of a State or Territory'. 
In moving this amendment I am seeking to bring the real issue before the House; that is, whether the Commonwealth Government should interfere in the legislative right of State governments to control, restrict or totally ban abortions. This debate is not about abortion on demand, however that term may be defined today. One question before honourable members is whether we should discriminate against a large group of women; another is whether we should interfere in the confidential consultative process between a medical practitioner and a patient. This amendment gives honourable members the opportunity to debate whether Commonwealth medical benefits should be available for termination of pregnancy procedures. It gives honourable members the chance to debate whether State laws are adequate or, indeed, whether they are administered. 
So far as I am concerned there is no middle ground in the present debate. The effect of the motion is to discriminate against women who have their pregnancies terminated in accordance with the law of the State unless their lives are in danger. Only those women would be entitled to Commonwealth benefits. Women whose physical or mental health is seriously prejudiced would not be entitled to receive medical benefits. Whichever way one looks at this aspect of the motion it clearly is discriminatory against the group of women whose pregnancies are terminated on grounds other than 'to protect the life of the mother'. There is no room for compromise on the motion. It raises a clear conflict between the national Government and a majority of State governments. In a statement distributed to honourable members the mover of the motion admitted that the motion: 
. does differ deliberately from the Menhennitt and Levine judgments in that it does not take account of mental health. 
In the case of R. v. Davidson in the Supreme Court of Victoria,  Mr Justice  Menhennitt held that a doctor  . . must have honestly believed on reasonable grounds that the act done by him was (a) necessary to preserve the woman from a serious danger to her life or her physical or mental health (not being merely the normal dangers of pregnancy and childbirth) which the continuance of the pregnancy would entail; and (b) in the circumstances not out of proportion to the danger to be averted. 
I emphasise that the terms of the motion and of the amendments foreshadowed by the honourable members for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  Moore  (Mr Hyde)  and Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  fail to acknowledge the Menhennitt rule. In the New South Wales case of R. v. Wald and others in 1971,  Mr Justice  Levine, in applying the Menhennitt rule, held that it would be for the jury to decide whether there existed in each case any economic, social or medical grounds or reason which, in its view, constituted reasonable grounds upon which a doctor could honestly and reasonably believe there would result a serious danger to her physical or mental health. It is interesting to note that the representatives of the community on that body, the jury, are to determine the reasonable grounds. 
The position of a majority of States other than Victoria is similar to that set out in the 
Menhennitt judgment. Every State in the Commonwealth of Australia provides penalties for unlawful abortions. Every State in Australia recognises that the termination of pregnancy in given circumstances is a bona fide medical practice within the law. Every State law provides that a medical practitioner may terminate a woman's pregnancy if the woman's life is in danger. The majority of States in Australia permit the termination of pregnancy if in the opinion of the medical practitioner the woman's physical or mental health is at risk beyond the 'normal risk' of pregnancy and childbirth. 
In the course of this debate we must not forget that the decision to terminate pregnancy is that of the woman. She makes that decision after a great deal of anguish. To support that contention I refer to a report compiled by  Dr J.  A. Johnson while he was Research Director of the Family Planning Centre, St Vincent's Hospital in Sydney, and  Mr D.  B. Roberts, which showed that about 25 per cent of the women who have abortions in Australia are of the Catholic faith. However,  Dr Johnson  emphasised the 'acute moral and ethical dilemma' of those women in deciding to terminate their pregnancies. The pregnant 14-year old girl may seek the advice of her mother, father, friends or her priest and ultimately her medical practitioner. The 40-year old woman pregnant as a result of rape may seek the advice of her husband, her children and her doctor. Not one of us men in this House can speak of the personal experience which a woman or child undergoes in circumstances where she has to make a decision to terminate her pregnancy. Not one of us in this place has the right to interfere in the advice which a medical practitioner, a clergyman, a member of the family or a friend may give to a person who is giving earnest consideration to the termination of her pregnancy. We do not have the right to interfere in any way with the judgment of a medical practitioner in giving advice to this patient. 
If the motion were passed the medical practitioner would be asked to provide a certificate to be used by the patient to support an application for medical benefits. The Medical Benefits Schedule Revision Committee, made up of representatives from the Government and the Australian Medical Association, states: 
The legal and ethical responsibility for determining the medical need for a medical service rests with the individual medical practitioner operating within the framework of the relevant State law. 
I am pleased to note that the honourable members for Moore, Mitchell and Eden-Monaro concede that certification causes difficulties and therefore suggest the removal of that section from the motion. To follow the certification procedure further, it would be necessary for a doctor to distinguish between, for example, the diagnostic procedure to determine whether a woman has a carcinoma of the uterus, whereby a foetus would be removed by curettage of the uterus, and the case where a woman 's life is at risk if her pregnancy continues. In either case I would submit that neither the Commonwealth Government nor any departmental officer has any right to that information. It is personal to the woman and to her medical practitioner. As the Australian Medical Association has pointed out: 
The majority of these procedures -  that is, relating to termination of pregnancy-  are most frequently performed for reasons other than termination and some very rarely involve termination. Thus every year thousands of women who have no intention of seeking to end a pregnancy would be faced with the embarrassment of having to produce a certificate to that effect before being able to obtain benefits. 
It is argued that the motion is aimed specifically and clearly at the control of Commonwealth expenditure for medical insurance. The honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  has stated: 
. it is my belief that there can be no medical necessity for the vast bulk of the 50,900 terminations performed in 1 977-78 at a medical benefit cost of $3.4m. 
He went on to say:   if there is no medical necessity then a taxpayer's funds are being improperly applied. 
I would suggest, respectfully, that it is an incredible impertinence on the part of the honourable member for Hume to apply his own personal belief- not knowledge based on fact- that no medical reason existed for the termination of the pregnancies referred to. If there is no medical necessity for termination of pregnancies the State Government authorities have the responsibility to take action to ensure that the penalties which the law provides are applied. 
Against what cases does the motion discriminate? Let me consider some examples. Firstly, there is the position of a 14-year-old girl who has been the victim of an incestuous relationship with her father and is pregnant as a result. If she is a healthy, normal girl her life will not be in danger in giving birth to her father's child. Under the terms of the motion she would not receive Commonwealth Government benefits to help defray the costs of that abortion. The girl, her mother or other members of the family must therefore pay the full cost of the operation to abort her father's child. It may be argued that she could have the foetus aborted at a public hospital. This is a specious argument. It gives rise to an argument which seeks to confuse economics with ethics. The basis of the motion and the amendments is to persuade members of this House that abortion should be carried out only where the life of the woman or child is in danger. To restrict the argument only to the saving of taxpayers' funds fails to recognise the emotive response and, indeed, intellectual arguments which flow from the very words used in the terms of the motion. The motion would remove a choice presently available to that young girl. 
Another example to consider is that of a 40- year-old married woman, the victim of a pack rape. Until that attack she had been living happily with her husband and four teenage children. That family may not be able to afford an operation to terminate the mother's pregnancy. The mover of the motion would suggest that because her life was not in danger she could not receive medical benefits from the Commonwealth Government but that she could have the operation at a public hospital. One can understand the circumstances- the pregnant mother must become visibly more pregnant as each day passes. This must be noted by the four teenage children and the husband, they also knowing that the foetus which is developing in the womb of the mother is that of one of several louts who subjected their mother or wife to the denigrating violation of the individual by rape. In these circumstances I see two competing moral questions: Should the mother carry that child, thereby causing unwarranted pressure on the family and perhaps even placing the family unity and wellbeing under threat, or should she have the child aborted? I would not turn my back on the woman facing that grinding mental devastation which can occur if a woman is unable to legally terminate her pregnancy. 
Why should we in the Commonwealth Parliament endorse a discriminatory process against any one of the women in the cases to which I have referred? That is precisely what we would be endorsing if we passed the motion of the honourable member for Hume. If we were to allow this constricting motion to be passed, how would those honourable members who support the motion vote if a strong lobby were developed by members of the Jehovah's Witness faith. They have strong moral reasons for not undertaking a number of medical practices in our society. 
The hospitalisation of an alcoholic should qualify for Commonwealth medical benefits. In many cases the alcoholic is a victim of a hostile environment. There is an increasing incidence of alcoholism in our society and an increasing number of people are receiving medical attention for that condition. But are we, as a Commonwealth government, going to respond to those members of our society who consider alcohol an evil and who may advance an argument that taxpayers funds should not be used to compensate the alcoholic? I think not. We should not seek to discriminate against the members of that unfortunate group who require the support of our society, not rejection. There are many pregnant women who seek support after the decision has been made to terminate a pregnancy. 
There are many in this country who would not agree with sterilisation operations for men or women. Those people are also taxpayers and they could advance a strong argument that the Commonwealth Government should not allow any medical benefit to be paid to any person who wilfully undertakes an operation which will prevent conception. There are some who would say that the morality involved in a sterilisation operation is more serious than the morality involved in the termination of a pregnancy carried out in circumstances that accord with the Menhennitt rule. 
Finally, I turn to the community debate on abortion and to the expressions of opinion on this subject by a wide spectrum of individuals and groups. The cases for and against the motion have been expressed by Anglican bishops, the Roman Catholic Archbishop, the Right to Life Association and groups of clergy within each honourable member's electorate and there has been a large number of spontaneous, unstructured individual expressions of opinion and calls for support. I hope that our civilised society has developed to the extent where respect for and acknowledgment of the opinions of others are accepted. I hope that prejudice and intolerance will not result in the castigation of any honourable member because he holds to a strongly held principle. I have respect for the views of those who have taken the trouble to convey them to me. I have respect for the honourable member for Hume and respect for the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  in the way in which they have moved this motion, and for the views which they have expressed. 
Lest there should be any honourable members in this chamber who are concerned with the retention of votes in a forthcoming election, I draw attention to the results of a Morgan gallup poll of 1 974. 1 seek leave to incorporate it in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Finding No. 169 and 170 
I also ask honourable members to consider the views of the women in our society. For example, the convener of the National Women's Advisory Council, the advisory body of this Government on women's affairs, issued a statement on this subject last Monday. I draw the attention of honourable members to the terms of that statement. One amendment before this House states that for every three live births in Australia there is one abortion. That is a significant comment on our society's standards and behaviour. Another appalling statistic shows that known rape offences in Australia have increased from 262 or 0.23 per cent per 10,000 people in 1964 to 680 or 0.52 per cent per 10,000 people in 1973. In many respects our society today is ugly. It will not be changed by discriminatory Commonwealth Government intervention in an area of State responsibility. If illegal abortions are being performed by State authorities the States should take action to stop those abortions. If this motion is passed, the number of abortions will not decrease. If the motion is passed it will discriminate against the majority of the women who presently terminate their pregnancies. If the motion is passed it will effectively override State law. I ask honourable members to support my amendment. 
My question to the Prime Minister is based on his message to the Confederation of Australian Sport on 22 February last. Is death from ischaemic heart disease in Australia almost the highest in the world and is lack of adequate exercise a vital factor in the cause of this type of heart disease? Is the Prime Minister aware that research undertaken at the University of Melbourne suggests that up to 95 per cent of the population would be benefited more from the introduction of regular aerobic activity into their lives than they would be benefited from attention to other risk factors such as cigarette smoking? Does he agree that the habit of regular physical activity should be introduced early in a child 's school life but that many Australian schools lack specialist physical education teachers, while teachers generally and parents underestimate the significance for health and mental alertness of regular physical exercise? Did a 1970 survey show that 75 per cent of post-primary children in government schools are denied a planned continuous program of physical education because their schools are without a gymnasium? Does he agree that it is imperative and urgent that a program be adopted to make physical education a daily requirement at all levels in government schools and to provide gymnasia to all schools and a physical education specialist teacher on the basis of one physical education teacher to every 200 children?  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the Prime Minister's message dated 22 February 1979 to the Confederation of Australian Sport. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Prime Minister Canberra 22 February 1979 
MESSAGE TO THE CONFEDERATION OF AUSTRALIAN SPORT 
I am pleased that the Confederation of Australian Sport has launched a national campaign to ensure that sport and planned physical activity programs are included in the core curricula of all schools. 
The Confederation is being supported in its campaign by the Australian Council for Health, Physical Education and Recreation. 
Approaches have been made by the Confederation to Premiers and Ministers responsible for Sport, Health and Education in each State on the proposed campaign. Replies to date have been most encouraging, and the Confederation will be seeking meetings in each State to discuss the proposition further. 
In addition, at the Commonwealth level the Curriculum Development Centre is presently conducting a program of work on developing core curriculum guidelines in Australian schools. It is likely that, when that program is concluded, a discussion paper will be circulated to all interested bodies, including the Confederation, seeking their views. 
With my recent announcement of Commonwealth assistance to the Australian Olympic Federation, the Government is keen to see the performances of our athletes upgraded. To do this, we need to develop a program that will at least give young Australians this opportunity. The obvious place to start such a program is in the schools. Although most schools have some kind of arranged sporting and physical education activities there is a need to stimulate the interest of children in sport and physical education. The Confederation's program will go a long way towards achieving that goal. 
Another aspect of renewed interest in sport and exercise in schools is that it can play an important part in improving the general standards of health and fitness, and, continued into adult life, can make an enjoyable contribution to preventative medicine. 
As 1979 is the International Year of the Child, it is a most opportune time to get children interested and involved in sporting and recreational activities. I am sure that all Australian parents realise what the Confederation is trying to achieve, and they will give it their full support. 
I commend the Confederation for what it is trying to achieve. 
-Whilst I endorse the comments made by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  in relation to the gross allegations which have been made in this House tonight against the members of the Parliament House Construction Authority- they are men of good will, who have been appointed by this Government to undertake a very serious and responsible task- I congratulate the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  on today being his fiftieth birthday. I do so because he has worked with me and many other people before me on the Joint Standing Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, and he knows more than anybody else the hundreds of hours of work by members of this Parliament which has gone into the setting up of the Authority, the work carried out by the Authority and the preparation of briefs for the construction of the new and permanent parliament house. 
It was very sad to listen to the diatribe which has just been delivered by the honourable member for Burke, when he knows the difficulties which will be encountered in working towards the opening of a new and permanent parliament house in 10 years' time. It needs the utmost co-operation and understanding from all members of the community. Co-operation will be needed not only from members of this House but also from members of the union movement, the private enterprise area, the builders, the contractors, the designers and the artisans who will be involved in the development of this project so that it will be ready by the bicentennial year of 1988. An aspect which should not be forgotten is the timing. Already there has been a feeling of frustration on the part of those who have been preparing the notices to be inserted in newspapers to start the design competition. They were due to be inserted on 10 March. They have not been inserted because this Parliament House Construction Authority Bill has not yet passed through this House and through the Senate. For the honourable member for Burke to utter slander in this place against people who will have to undertake a very difficult task over the next two years is nothing short of scandalous. 
I point out- this point was not made during the address of the honourable member for Burke- the opportunity this Parliament will have to control the design and construction of the new and permanent parliament house. This Bill spells out meticulously the degree of involvement of the Joint Standing Committee which, as the honourable member has said, is made up of members from both sides of the House and from both chambers. Also built into this Bill is a mechanism whereby the Parliament will have the opportunity to review various stages before any work commences on those particular areas of work involved in the construction of the House. I do not propose to take up the time of honourable members by going through the Bill. If one looks at the provisions of clauses 5, 7, 8 and 9, one sees that it is clearly and specifically spelt out that this Parliament will have a great role to play in the control of the construction of the new and permanent parliament house. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Melbourne will just listen for a few minutes. He also is a member of the Joint Standing Committee. He knows and understands the work that is ahead of us all and the understanding that will be required. There will be an opportunity, not only for members of the Joint Standing Committee but for members of this Parliament, to have a say in the design and construction as the various stages proceed through to 1988. 
Perhaps we can go back a few points: It may be worth while recording in  Hansard-  hopefully, it will also be elucidation for some honourable members opposite who appear to be misbehaving tonight, for some unknown reason- what happened when Walter Burley Griffin was charged with the responsibility of designing Canberra and, in fact, actually started on a plan for the new and permanent parliament house. In the competition for the general plan for Canberra the board of assessors, on 14 May 1912, reported that the board remained divided in its judgment. Perhaps the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  would just listen to that and conjecture as to what would happen if that were to happen in 1979. Where would we be? We certainly would not have a new and permanent parliament house constructed by 1988. We can learn from the lessons of the past. 
On 23 May 1912 the Minister of State for Home Affairs, King O 'Malley, had to adjudicate and decide on the design submitted by Walter Burley Griffin as the award for the first premium. I hope that the present Minister for Home Affairs does not have the responsibility of making the decision in a situation where his assessors are unable to make a decision on the designer. The townscape plan for the buildings in the government administrative group was well developed by Griffin. The capitol building- the central feature of the city- was isolated and sited in an extensive hill park. That incidentally- it is worth recording this- was Capital Hill- the place which this Parliament has decided is to be the location for the new and permanent parliament house. Griffin had different ideas in those days. He saw Capital Hill as having on it a building which would 'symbolise Australian sentiment, achievement and ideal' and which would be used in connection with public ceremonials, for the housing of archives, and such other things as international gifts and memorials. Its isolation would be maintained by its geographic situation and also by its being 80 feet above the proposed parliament house which was to be located on what was then called Parliament Hill but which we now call Camp Hill. In referring to these notes, I am indebted to a book written by James Birrell, a biography of Walter Burley Griffin, published by the University of Queensland Press. As a matter of interest- I am sure it is something which would stir the hearts of honourable members opposite- I point out that in the frontispiece there is a reproduction of a drawing by Walter Burley Griffin which actually has described on it our own  Watergate.  That is well worth looking at. 
The other point that should be made is in relation to Griffin and the problems that he had to face. We have to learn from those experiences. Just prior to the First World War Griffin got into difficulties in the implementation of his plans. In 1913 he launched an international competition for the erection of a new and permanent parliament house. Some very distinguished people were associated with that competition. The assessors were Otto Wagner, Louis Sullivan,  Sir John  Burnett and Victor Laloux. Because of the War, and as Wagner was an enemy subject, the Government had to cancel that competition. 
The members of the board in those days- I do not think I need to go into the details of the personnel who were involved on it- found themselves unable to recommend the adoption of any of the designs and advised approval of the plan for the layout of the city prepared by the Board. This plan incorporated features from the premiated and purchased designs wherever, in the opinion of the Board, such a procedure was warranted. That was the pattern which was to be established over the ensuing years in which Griffin, with very little support from those who were involved in government in this country in those days, was in head-on conflict with those opposed to him. Griffin's preliminary plan had been accepted by the Cabinet a month before he left for America in 1913. The frustration was further demonstrated by the fact that, immediately he left, the Administrator, one  Colonel David  Miller, restricted expenditure. Of course, that meant that very little of the Griffin plan could go ahead. 
On 14 June, 1916, a royal commission was issued to inquire into Federal capital administration. The commissioner, Wilfred Blacket, found that Griffin had proved that he was eager to perform his part in the creation of the capital but not so others. The evidence proved that certain officers of the Public Service had withheld from Griffin necessary information and assistance and had usurped his powers, that he and his office were ignored, that his rights and duties under his contract were denied, that false charges of default were made against him, and that the honourable W. O. Archibald, Minister for Home Affairs, and members of the Departmental Board had endeavoured to set aside his design and to substitute the Board 's own design. 
That is a fairly sad story of the frustrations which were involved in those early days when Griffin was trying to establish this city of Canberra as the national capital and to commence the construction of a new and permanent Parliament House. I am not suggesting that the same sentiments can be expressed against any Minister of the present Government nor against any public servant of the present Department. But at least we can see that there are frustrations and that there will be a need for a degree of understanding in difficult times which I have no doubt lie ahead of us. In 1920 when Griffin came into conflict with the then Prime Minister, Billy Hughes, he declined to serve on a government advisory committee charged with the responsibility to implement his plan and to build a national capital. In declining, Griffin stated: 
The issue is that the design and construction of the city is not to be vested in the committee, which is to have no executive power, but in officers of the Works Department which in open court before a Royal Commission have been adjudged hostile to myself, my plan and my procedure. 
Shortly after Griffin severed his connection with the Government and with the city and, in fact, went into private practice around Australia as many people would be aware. It is worthwhile emphasising again what I said earlier and that is that this Bill does in fact provide this Parliament, the Authority and the Joint Select Committee on the New and Permanent Parliament House, with an opportunity, at the significant stage of the design and construction of the new Parliament House, to come in and make a comment and if necessary to in fact pass a motion disallowing any direction, which may have been given by the Minister to the Authority. I think there should be no doubt by any honourable member opposite, who for some reason tonight has lacked the goodwill which was present up until the present stage, that the Government and the Parliament of this country will have the opportunity to control strictly the construction of the new and permanent Parliament House. 
Since Griffin's time there have been many other occasions when Parliaments have debated and when committees have been appointed to look into the design and construction of a new and permanent Parliament House. It was not until 1975, as the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mentioned, that a preparation of a brief was requested by a joint parliamentary committee. Just as a matter of record I think we ought to record the names of those who were signatories to the report of March 1 970 on the proposed new and permanent Parliament House for the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia. Not many of these members are present now. I emphasise that because I think it is relevant to those who made the comments earlier that we are not building a Taj Mahal for ourselves. We are building a Parliament for the use of those who will work in it. They will be future generations of parliamentarians and those who serve the Parliament in this country. But the members of that Committee should be mentioned, especially those who are still with us today. The proxy for the then Prime Minister the Rt  Hon.  J. G. Gorton was the present  Speaker  of this Parliament,  Sir Billy  Snedden. The proxy for the Rt  Hon.  J. McEwen was the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who was then Minister for the Interior and who is the present Minister for Transport.  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Douglas  McClelland were also members, as was the honourable member for Willis  (Mr Bryant)  who I think will be following me shortly. The  Deputy Speaker, Mr Giles,  was also a member. There has been a great turnover and the members I have mentioned are only a small number of a total membership of that Committee. One of the essential factors that is involved in this particular issue is that we have, since 1927, been occupying a temporary Parliament House. We have, since 1927, from time to time put up with the frustrations in working conditions which would not be tolerated for one minute by any person who would be a member of any union. We have had the situation and the embarrassment where members of staff who had to work here for seven days a week on many occasions- not like parliamentarians who may be here for only three days a week- have put up with the most outrageous conditions possible. These people, whether they be attendants, kitchen hands, or people involved with the Library, have had to work under the most appalling conditions. I hope that there is no misunderstanding by the people of Australia. There is an absolute urgent necessity to build the new Parliament House, not only for members of Parliament but also for the people who work in it. Just as a matter of record during sitting times I think that approximately 1,100 people work in this place under the most outrageous conditions. 
In that report of March 1970 reference was made to an earlier committee report as to where the siting of a new Parliament House should be. I just want to incorporate this reference into  Hansard  tonight by quoting it as it has been incorporated into this report. The words of the earlier committee are: 
In this context, your Committee, for the reasons advanced in the report, would restate words used therein, viz., 'the present and, what would appear to be continuing, functional inadequacies and higher maintenance costs, especially after the next decade, prompt the Committee to suggest that an early start on the new and permanent Parliament House would be, in every way, a sound and practical move'. 
That was in 1 969. We are now in 1 979. Of course at long last we have made the decision to proceed with a new and permanent Parliament House. That decision was made, may I remind honourable members opposite, with the cooperation of all members of this House. The Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition both endorsed the decision which was made to proceed with the construction of a new and permanent Parliament House. I conclude with a plea. I hope that we are not going to have a repeat performance of the honourable member for Burke as to how we are going to approach the difficult task of co-ordinating many disciplines in having the new and permanent Parliament House constructed. As I mentioned earlier it will provide an ideal opportunity for the union movement of Australia to come in and say: 'We are going to frustrate this. We are not going to have the interests of Australia at heart. We will make sure that the new and permanent Parliament House will not be ready for the bi-centennial celebrations. ' 
That will be very easy for some unionists to say. If the honourable member for Melbourne will wait I will say that the majority of union members in this country will take up the challenge and realise that there is a national responsibility to have this particular Parliament House constructed by the time of the bicentennial celebrations in 1988. 1 think it is particularly worthwhile recording that there is a challenge not only to the union members but also to members of Parliament, employers, contractors, and all the artisans who will be involved in this particular construction. I emphasise that it will require the goodwill of all men in this country, and, not the least, of all men in this Parliament. If the House is going to take note of the sort of denigration which has been made tonight about people who have offered themselves after being approached by this Government to take on the responsibility of being members of the Construction Authority then I think: 'God help this country if we are going to have those sorts of people taking part in future debates on the construction of the new and permanent Parliament House.' 
I should like to spend the last few minutes of this debate by talking on a subject on which I have spoken on other occasions. It relates to sport and recreation policy in Australia. I know that the honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton),  the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  are very interested in the Government's commitment to this area. We can be rightly criticised in some respects because only $1.3m is made available through the sports development program. I will not go into the millions of dollars which have been made available for the Commonwealth Games, the 'Life. Be in it' campaign and so on. I shall deal with the sports development program and talk about the Australian Clay Target Association which has made good use of a very modest contribution from the Commonwealth Government. 
The Australian Clay Target Association, for those who do not know, is made up of 280 affiliated shotgun clubs throughout Australia. It has approximately 1 1,000 registered members. It has a long term plan to increase that membership over the five-year period to 1983 to 21,000 members. It has an incredible safety record. Since 1928 it has not had one fatal accident in any of its affiliated clubs or at any of its shoots. The clubs shoot about 40 million cartridges each year. That safety record is one which should be acknowledged. The Association also has ambitions to introduce this sport to senior students in secondary schools. Having regard to the shooting accidents which now take place throughout Australia, this would be a first class idea. The people who will introduce it are excellent people who are safety conscious. They are engaged in a very healthy outdoor sport. 
In the current financial year the Australian Clay Target Association received $16,500- a very modest sum. What the Association has done with it will have enormous benefit for its present and future members. For example, it has spent $10,000 on appointing and paying a national coaching director who commenced work in January 1979. 1 had the pleasure of meeting him at the national championships in Griffith recently. Six hundred shooters attended those championships for a week's shooting. I have no doubt that the national coaching director will do an excellent job in encouraging young people to take up the sport, and in encouraging safety in the way in which they handle shotguns and approach the sport. The Association is using $2,000 for other coaching projects. It is using $3,000 for international competition overseas. For example, it has to travel to the United States of America for the Trap tournament, An amount of $1,500 has also been spent on other international meetings. 
This is an example of what can be done with very small sums of money. I know that the honourable member for Phillip and the honourable member for Higgins to whom I have referred would like to see much more money allocated to sport and recreation. But the advisory group currently giving information to the Government is doing a first class job in recognising those national sporting associations which should be encouraged, those which have a good record and those such as the Australian Clay Target Association which are prepared to establish long term programs. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
The House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
I would like quickly to answer a couple of points made by the two previous speakers. In passing I would like to comment how interesting it is that both members of the Opposition and Government supporters are of one mind to use the grievance debate to talk about the Victorian election. I would like to make one point in relation to the comments of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis).  I would like to answer some of the nonsense which came out of the false accusation that the Victorian Government was not able to create a situation in which jobs were available for the work force. I would like to quote from figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. In 1976 when the Hamer Government was last elected in Victoria there were 1,612,300 people in the Victorian work force. In 1978 this number had increased to 1,623,800.I would now like to refer to figures released for the manufacturing sector, and these figures will lay the lie to allegations that were made recently by one  Mr Jolly.  In 1976 403,900 people were employed in manufacturing industry. In 1 978 there was a drop of only 22,000- not 80,000 as has been suggested by  Mr Jolly-  to 382,100. Therefore, overall there has been an increase in the total work force in Victoria. 
I will not go into the denigrating comments made by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  However, I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter dated 12 April 1978 from  Mr Frank  Wilkes, the Leader of the Opposition in the Victorian Parliament, to  Mr B.  J. Wallis, the Shire Secretary of the Shire of Pakenham which states, inter alia: 
Development by the Housing Commission of all the suitable land in Pakenham has my full support, as had Council 's policy of large scale housing development in the Pakenham Shire as a whole. 
I seek leave to incorporate this letter in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-I thank the House. I make my second point by quoting the words of Shire President of the Shire of Pakenham, one Councillor Bob Bysouth, as reported in a newspaper article. Referring to the Housing Commission's estate in the centre of the township of Pakenham, he is reported to have said: 
The estate has been imaginatively planned, incorporating the retention of many existing features - 
Many of those features are hills, incidentally- and the fact that such a pleasing environment will be created immediately adjoining the town centre, electric railway line, duplicated highway and first class school facilities will ensure a high demand for accommodation. 
The land is, in fact, most attractive and ideally situated. 
Councillor Bysouth then said that he deplored the use of the Housing Commission holdings as a political football. But apparently there are members opposite and members in the Labor Party in Victoria who seek to override the views and the opinions of local government counsellors and authorities and local planning consultants. One could answer many other points. 
I did not want to talk about that matter today; I wanted to talk about the youth of Australia. In the short time available to me I wish to indicate why we need to place a great deal of emphasis on the youth as a client group. Why should we be involved? A report tabled in this Parliament in 1977 by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was entitled: 'Report of the Study Group on Youth Affairs'. The first of the conclusions in that report states: 
Young people face a series of transitions which justifies governments and others considering them as a 'client group' with special needs, this being already recognised by a range of youth specific programs and services. 
I turn now to another report which has been tabled in the Parliament, namely, the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Education and the Arts on the impact of television on the development and learning behaviour of children. Why should we refer to that report? Some of the statistics referred to in that report are frightening. It also deals with the question of why we should be concerned about youth and, for example, their television watching habits. That report stated: 
Clearly television has merged as the dominant experience in the life of the average Australian child, monopolising more of his or her time than any other single activity apart from sleep. 
The report refers to the fart that an estimated 20 per cent or more of children are viewing television in excess of 30 hours a week and sometimes as much as 80 hours a week. If one compares that statistic with the fact that only 2.2 per cent of the total Australian population is attending the performing arts, one can see that a major effort may be required to try to correct the television watching habits of the young people of this country. 
I refer now to another Government report, namely, the report entitled: 'Drug Problems in Australia- an Intoxicated Society?' from the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. From that report one can see that between 1970 and 1975 drug offences committed by people in the age group from 18 to 25 years increased from 69.8 1 per cent to 73.94 per cent ofthe total. In all other age groups, apart from the 16 year olds, the number of offences has decreased. However, the important groups to look at are the 16 year old group and the 18 to 25 year old group. Drug offences by people in those age groups have increased substantially over the past few years. 
Let us look at the international situation. I was privileged to attend in Jamaica the Commonwealth young leaders conference. That conference made a number of recommendations. The first one to which I refer reads as follows: 
The democratic participation of youth in national decision making is an inalienable right of all strata of youth and should be an ongoing process which reflects their aspirations in pursuit of national goals. 
That report, which again has been tabled in this House, referred also to a number of issues of international concern to young people in the Commonwealth. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  part of the section of the report which deals with the issues of international concern. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Be it resolved that this Conference calls on the Commonwealth Heads of Government to persuade those countries to establish and maintain non-racist immigration policies. 
Be it resolved that this pan-Commonwealth meeting of young leaders supports the aspiration and struggle of the Asian youth in the realisation of its struggle to make the South-East Asian region into a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality, free from any form of manner of interference by outside powers. 
Be it resolved that this Confernece urges the youth ofthe Commonwealth to help build public opinion in their state against all forms of expansionism and hegemonism. Further the Conference urges the youth of the Commonwealth to reaffirm their faith in the principle of non-interference in the international affairs of other states. 
Be it resolved that this Conference calls on Commonwealth Heads of Governments to adopt policies aimed at achieving a world of total disarmament. 
Whereas this meeting of Commonwealth Young Leaders has taken cognisance of the existence of racial discrimination in some countries ofthe world; 
Be it resolved that this meeting condemns the existence of racial discrimination in any part of the world. 
The meeting of young Commonwealth leaders, deeply concerned over the continuation of the Cyprus crisis and the continued drama of the youth of Cyprus; 
Noting, in particular, the fact that a great number of them have become refugees in their own country or are missing; 
Considering that a just solution to the Cyprus question will alleviate the suffering of the youth in Cyprus; 
Having in mind the Communique on Cyprus, issued in Kingston in May 1973, by the Commonwealth Heads of Government; 
Expresses its solidarity with the Government, the people and the youth of Cyprus; 
Fully supports the Resolutions of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations on Cyprus; 
Calls on all states to respect the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and the non-alignment of Cyprus; 
Demands the immediate withdrawal of all foreign troops from the Republic of Cyprus and the return of all refugees to their homes in freedom and safety; 
Condemns any attempt aiming at the change of the demographic conditions in Cyprus; 
Demands the taking of effective measures for the tracing of the missing persons in Cyprus; 
Notes the spirit of goodwill with which the Government of Cyprus approached the resumption of the intercommunal talks under the personal auspices and directive of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and strongly supports the immediate application of human rights in Cyprus as the only basis for a just political statement. 
-I thank the House. That report indicates some of the matters which a lot of older people would perhaps say young people were incapable of considering. It certainly indicates that the youth of the Commonwealth countries have  applied their minds to matters of substantial importance, not only to their own countries but also internationally. Last year the Australian Government changed its ministerial structure so that now we have a ministry to deal with youth affairs. I return to the recommendations from the Commonwealth youth leaders conference held in 1977. A recommendation was made that each Commonwealth country should have a national youth policy and, wherever possible, a Ministry of Youth responsible for the implementation of that policy. It is pleasing that that decision has now been taken by the Commonwealth Government so that we at least have that ministry. But, perhaps more importantly, the mechanisms are now being established to enable young people in Australia to have a direct input in the decision making process at the Commonwealth Government level. I refer to the other announcement which will be made shortly, namely, the personnel who will comprise the National Youth Advisory Group. In February the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  announced that this group would be set up by this Government. 
I will now be somewhat parochial and follow the precedent established by other speakers who referred to Victoria. I think that without doubt Victoria has led Australia in the provision of youth services, in reaching an awareness of what is required to identify the problems of youth and in planning, at the Victorian Government level, in relation to this client group. For example, the Youth 2000 Series' was developed by the Youth Council of Victoria. I pay a compliment to the Youth Council of Victoria and particularly to its Director, Mike Cusack, who has recently left it to take up a position in the umbrella organisation which is now being developed for structured youth organisations in Australia. I also pay a compliment to its  Chairman,  Peter Moss. Both of those gentlemen have done a great deal under the leadership of Brian Dixon and the Department of Youth, Sport and Recreation, to develop a greater awareness of the problems of youth in Victoria and the need to take a much more exciting line in developing programs for young people. 
The 'Youth 2000 Series' is an example of an innovation in Victoria, as was the 'Life. Be in it' campaign and the activities of the Youth Council of Victoria itself. One could also point to such initiatives taken by the Victorian Government as the encouragement of municipal councils to employ recreation officers. In fact an announcement has already been made that as from 1 July this year $9,000 per employee will be made available by the Government. One could continue recounting a number of initiatives which have been taken at that level. 
I conclude by deploring the use of the tactic, perhaps on both sides of the House, of group allegations of corruption being made against individuals or groups of individuals, particularly in the Victorian area. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports, and I think a lot of other honourable members opposite, concede that no allegation has been made against individual members of the Victorian Ministry. I think that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports was good enough to concede that. Notwithstanding that, allegations are still made which indicate that there has been corruption. People who want facts should read the Gowans report and not pay attention to the tirade of abuse which comes from the people in this place and in Victoria who choose not to look at the facts set out in the Gowans report. The Premier of Victoria has already acknowledged that there were imperfections in the department. In fact, criminal prosecutions are pending against two people who were named in that report. That is where the facts' lie. People would do well to remember that we should deal with facts and not abuse. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the House refuses to increase payments to any State in order to fund promises given in the course of an election campaign which do not have a valid economic base; and that this House therefore condemns the failure of the Australian Labor Party in Victoria to disclose the cost of its election promises established at not less than $ 1, 000m and the necessity to raise those funds from Commonwealth sources. 1798 REPRESENTATIVES 3 May 1979 QUESTIONS WITHOUT NOTICE 
-Will the Prime Minister give a clear and unequivocal statement of the Government 's position in respect of oil drilling on or near the Great Barrier Reef? 
-by leave-It might come as some surprise to some members that I should rise on this matter, but I think that when I have finished, after some very brief words, the reason will become very obvious. The third, fourth and fifth stages of this research laboratory complex are to be established in Clayton, Victoria. Two have already been implemented. An advertisement in the Melbourne  Age  on 13 March relating to this complex stated that the laboratory was concerned with organic and general laboratories, workshops and stores, prototype industrial process bays for organic chemistry, general chemistry and pulp and paper. Following that advertisement, a group of people  from  the central Gippsland area decided to make a submission which was rather revolutionary in one sense in that it sought to persuade the Joint Committee on Public Works to make a recommendation that the works be transferred from Clayton to the central Gippsland area. A first class submission was prepared in a very short time by the Central Gippsland Regional Planning Authority Interim Committee. That was subsequently supported very strongly by me and by the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who is Minister for Transport, by State members and by a wide-ranging group of municipal authorities and other interest groups in the central Gippsland area. 
As I understand the position, although the recommendations have not been disclosed to the House, that submission has been rejected, basically on the ground that two of the five parts of the complex have already been constructed on the Clayton site and it would not be feasible to relocate any other part in any other area apart from Clayton. I ask the Government and government instrumentalities that, when matters of this kind are going to be considered for establishment in various parts of Australia, they do not just look to urban centres that they do look at the decentralisation policies of this Government and State governments to ensure that there is a balance between urban and rural Australia. 
Why should it be the central Gippsland area? In this case it is almost tailor-made for a complex of this nature. For example, there is approximately 25 per cent of Australia's primary energy resources in the central Gippsland area. There is approximately 30 per cent of Australia's coal reserves and approximately 90 per cent of Australia's known oil reserves. There is approximately 25 per cent of Australia's proven gas reserves. 
And tourism, as the honourable member for Prospect interjects. That is quite correct. There are also the agricultural resources. I will mention two others. One is water resources. Approximately 30 per cent of Victoria's surface stream flows originate in Gippsland 's catchment areas. The other is timber resources. In fact, there are 1 ,374,200 hectares or about two-thirds of the Gippsland lakes catchment area covered with forest. All of those matters are relevant to the work which would be carried out in this third stage of the laboratory complex. 
For that reason I am disappointed that the Public Works Committee was not able to take a decision to remove the complex from Clayton to the central Gippsland area. I understand that the honourable member for Gippsland would strongly support any representation which could be made in the future to ensure that public works of this nature do go into rural Australia. 
In directing my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I refer to distressing reports that an estimated 2.5 million Kampucheans are threatened by famine and disease as a consequence of the continuing war in that country. I ask the Minister whether the Government stands ready to contribute to international efforts directed towards the alleviation of the suffering of innocent Kampuchean civilians. 
If time permitted one could answer the nonsense which has been spoken by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  but I would rather get on to some more constructive comments. The 1979-80 Budget provides $10 billion for health care. It is, I submit, necessary for our Government to spend an increasing amount on preventive medicine programs. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Government have responded to the need for greater expenditure on preventive medicine and have allocated funds for community health programs and other projects related to health; for example, the sport and recreation program. The funds set aside for preventive medicine are relatively small by comparison with the enormous expenditure on health services and social welfare payments provided in this Budget. 
The epidemic of smoking in our society is one particular area upon which I would like to spend some time in this debate. The loss to this Government from the effects of smoking surpass the revenue collected by way of excise on sale and consumption of tobacco products. The total collection of excise duty from tobacco products is estimated in 1979-1980 at $675m, an increase of 3 per cent over the previous year- an increase caused not by a Government lift in the rate of excise. 
In June of this year, the Fourth World Conference on Smoking and Health was held in Stockholm, Sweden. Between 600 and 700 delegates from 70 countries listened to the presentation of a number of papers which proved beyond reasonable doubt that the major cause of many of the world's diseases were linked with the use of tobacco by the world 's citizens. Since the United States Surgeon General's report on smoking and health was published in January 1964, a great deal of research has been conducted by the world's scientists and researchers on the links between smoking and disease. The link was clearly established at the Stockholm Conference. The question is now one for governments. Will the world 's legislators take action to protect people from the hazards of smoking? Will the world 's leaders do anything to control the spread of this epidemic? The onus is no longer on the scientists of this world to prove the link between smoking, ill health and death. It is rathern on the tobacco industry to disprove the allegation which are now clearly laid at the door of these promoters of death. 
It may be of benefit to restate a number of the facts and findings which overwhelmingly link tobacco with disease and death. For example, it is estimated that between $85 billion and $100 billion each year is spent in the world to buy 4 trillion cigarettes. According to figures which have been issued by the Tobacco Advisory 

<graphic href="115131197909125_44_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. A new report entitled 'Controlling and Smoking Epidemic' has been issued by the World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Smoking Control. That Committee comprises such representatives as  Dr Coudreau,  Director General of the National Committee on Tuberculosis and Respiratory diseases in Paris, France,  Dr Nigel  Gray, Director of the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria who also attended as a representative of the International Union Against Cancer,  Dr Loransky,  Director of the Central Institute for Scientific Research in Health Education in the Ministry of Health of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in Moscow,  Dr Djordjevic  from the Occupational Safety and Health Branch of the International Labour Organisation in Geneva, Switzerland and a number of other world renowned specialists in their respective field- not a lightweight committee. 
That Committee reaffirmed the harmful effects of smoking on Health which had been established in 1974 by the WHO Expert Committee on Smoking and its Effects on Health. Those effects were, in summary: 
That excess mortality of cigarette smokers is proportionately greater between the ages of 45 to 54 years than at younger or older ages, that excess deaths are higher in smokers of plain cigarettes than smokers who use filter tipped cigarettes; 
That cigarettes with a higher yield of tar and nicotine have been shown to be more dangerous than those with a low nicotine and tar content, although it is still true that smokers of 
Council, there has been an increase of 10.2 per cent in the total weight of cigarettes sold during 1 978. The increase is believed to be as a direct result of the shift from small to king size cigarettes in that year. 
It is encouraging to note that during 1978 the total number of cigarettes which were sold fell by approximately 0.5 per cent compared with the previous year.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which gives details of tobacco sales between 1 976 and 1 978. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- cigarettes with low nicotine and tar content have a higher death rate than non-smokers; 
That the major link factor in deaths from lung cancer, ischaemic heart disease or chronic obstructive lung diseases is smoking; 
That the diseases of cancer, bronchitis and emphysema and ischaemic heart disease and other diseases of the vascular system are directly associated with smoking and account for 80 percent of the excess mortality of smokers. 
But there are, in addition, other diseases which are more prevalent in smokers. These include cancer of the liver, tongue, mouth, larynx, pharynx, oesophagus and bladder. Gastroduodenal ulcers are twice as prevalent in smokers as in non-smokers. One could go on referring to a number of other diseases. 
Further evidence in the report from the WHO Expert Committee on Smoking Control Project refers to surveys and research carried out in relation to women who smoke. 
For example, between 1958 and 1971, the death rate of women aged between 35 and 44 years increased by one-third. During this period, cigarette consumption by women in the United Kingdom increased by 35 per cent. For those who have been interjecting, here is the good news. The use of the contraceptive pill was also introduced and became widespread as a birth control practice in that country during the same period. 

<graphic href="115131197909125_44_3.jpg"></graphic>

The question to be asked is: Was there any relationship between birth control by the pill, smoking and the increased death rates? An article in the May 1 979 edition of  Lancet  entitled Cardiovascular Risks and Oral Contraceptives' pointed out that a woman of 35 who uses oral contraceptives and smokes 25 cigarettes a day or more may have a 5 to 10-fold greater chance of a myocardial infarction than those who never smoke. It states: 
A large prospective study of 46,000 women of child bearing age showed a death rate from circulatory diseases among those who used oral contraceptives S times greater than those who did not. The death rate increased with the duration of oral contraceptive use, the age of the woman and the smoking of cigarettes. A second study gave similar results. 
The United Kingdom Committee on the Safety of Medicines, after studying these results, came to the conclusion that the risk of 'arterial thrombosis with oral contraceptives increases with age and that this risk is aggravated by cigarette smoking'. 
In a paper presented to the Fourth World Conference on Smoking and Health by  Dr John  Donovan, Senior Adviser in Epidemiology in the Commonwealth Department of Health, a reference was made to the increased incidence of smoking among pregnant women. He gave particular emphasis because of this increase and because of the consequential dangers to the unborn child. That danger has been simply stated in a poster which was made available to Conference delegations by the Swedish Department of Health. In a simple cartoon form, an accompanying message to pregnant mothers was clearly spelt out in these terms: 
Tobacco and pregnancy- When an expectant mother is smoking, the carbon monoxide in her blood passes to her foetus. The concentration of carbon monoxide is then almost doubled in the foetus' own blood circulation. The foetus thus absorbs still less oxygen in its tissues than its mother does. 
As the WHO report and the paper of  Dr Donovan  spell out, there is clear and unchallengeable evidence that a woman who smokes throughout her pregnancy, causes the child in the womb to become an average 200 grams lighter at birth than the child of a woman who does not smoke. Twice as many smoking mothers as nonsmoking mothers produce babies weighing less than 2,500 grams. The weight deficiency is directly related to the number of cigarettes consumed by the mother during pregnancy. The WHO report states: 
Recent studies have shown an immediate effect of smoking on the foetus- an acceleration of the foetal hean rate and a decrease in breathing movements. Carbon monoxide in cord blood is higher than that in maternal blood taken at the same time, suggesting that the consequent decrease in oxygen carrying capacity of the blood in the foetus is a significant factor. 

 Dr Donovan points out that 33 per cent of women in Australia are risking the lives and development of their children by smoking during pregnancy. He translates this in to numerical terms by saying that 75,000 babies in Australia are at risk each year. This is a figure which, I hope, will attract the attention of the Right to Life Movement in this country. I hope that it takes it up with the degree of vigour which it has demonstrated in the past on other matters. The January 1979 report of the Surgeon General of the United States of America on Smoking and Health shows that the percentage of girls aged between 12 and 14 years who smoke has increased eight-fold since 1968 and that among the age group 13 to 19 years there are now 6 million regular smokers in the United States of America. 
As in the United States of America, so it is in Australia; there are more teenage girls smoking in this country. A survey undertaken by the National Health and Medical Research Council in Australia found that 35 per cent of 1 5 year old girls were smoking one cigarette a week. In 1967, only 13 per cent were smoking one cigarette a week. When we link these statistical findings with the further fact that 75 per cent of regular smokers took up the habit before they were 2 1 years old we can understand why the tobacco industry aims its advertising at the young. In 1978 the United States National Institute of Education commenced a survey on teenage smoking habits. Preliminary results indicated that teenagers smoke the most widely advertised brands at rates three times higher than adult smokers. 
These statistics are known to the tobacco industry and its insidious campaigns to sell more tobacco products are based on this type of evidence. Accordingly, in 1979 we have reached the stage where the necessary medical and scientific facts are available to establish that public health is at risk from the addictive habits of the minority who smoke. To take the United States of America alone, cigarette smoking played a significant part in 80,000 deaths each year from lung cancer, up to 225,000 deaths from cardiovascular disease and 19,000 deaths from emphysema, chronic bronchitis and other lung diseases. 
I have stated some of the facts linking smoking with death and diseases. I now want to talk about the tobacco industry- the promoters of death, the promoters of slow suicide. The tobacco industry spends an estimated $2 billion a year on promotion of tobacco products. The tobacco industry is controlled by seven multi-national corporations. Unquestionably, tobacco promotion in this country is aimed at young people. Why should the Dennis Lillees of the sporting world promote smoking if they are not seeking to appeal to the young? The industry is aware of the statistics to which I referred earlier. Tobacco industry executives attended the Fourth World Conference on Smoking and Health, taking notes, recording every word, every statistic given by the scientists and medical experts of the world. Not one contribution was made by industry executives to answer the allegations which were raised by the several speakers. 
Perhaps the most frightening aspect of the present promotion of the use of tobacco is the move by these corporations into the developing countries. Instead of planting food crops in under-developed countries, many of which have starving populations, we see the promotion and establishment of tobacco crops. Advertising in those countries is not aimed to encourage the young person to become more sophisticated by smoking- and there is a lie in that- but rather to ape the successful business executive of the developed countries where smoking equals economic strength, where smoking is equated with success. 
Promotion of sport and recreation by the tobacco industry is the biggest lie of all. The tobacco industry is the promoter of death, not of activities which lead to health. We see the industry giving aid to the African village leaders by supplying village identification signs. Each sign also carries an advertisement for the popular cigarette brand in that area. We see a tobacco industry selling cigarettes by the stick and not by the packet because the people are too poor to afford a packet of cigarettes. It is this type of insidious promotion which clearly labels the tobacco industry as an industry bereft of any feeling of responsibility whatsoever, concerned only with earning dollars for its shareholders and not caring one iota for public health. 
I submit that there is no corporate responsibility. Lip service is given to industry contribution for research but it is a thin veneer over a product which contributes to death and disease. The tobacco industry stands condemned by the practices which it has developed and refined with the sole purpose of selling a product which causes disease. Only governments can properly arrest this epidemic. It is up to us to realise that we are facing a situation with smoking which our predecessors faced at the turn of the century in relation to tuberculosis. Smoking is an epidemic which must be controlled and, I would hope, wiped out before it causes more harm to unsuspecting young people. 
Members will be aware of the sacking of Joseph Califano Jnr, the former Secretary of State for Health, Education and Welfare in the Carter administration in the USA. Before he was sacked he attended the Conference in Stockholm and delivered the theme address. In the course of that address he stated: 
By the year 2000 we can bring under control what the World Health Organisation called the 'Epidemic of Cigarette Smoking' and perhaps by the year 20 15, 100 years after the epidemic first began to spread, we count smoking as no longer a major threat to the health of the World's people . . . The effect of such a public health success will be extraordinary. The control of diseases associated with cigarette smoking- lung cancer, heart disease and chronic bronchitis, emphysema and others- will affect the world as dramatically as the conquest of communicable disease has affected the industrialised countries. Ours will become a health world; people will suffer fewer untimely deaths; levels of disability and chronic illness in all our countries will drop sharply. 
Within one month of delivering that address, Joseph Califano Jnr had been sacked by the  President.  It was widely stated in the United States that his demise was caused by his enthusiasm for controlling smoking in the United States of America. It was suggested that the tobacco lobby of the southern States persuaded the United States of America  President  that Joseph Califano Jnr had no place in his administration. We may never know the answer. It is however the methods adopted by the tobacco industry to promote their tool of disease which is disturbing and which is the challenge which governments must face.  Sir George  Young, the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health in the United Kingdom stated at the conference: 
The solution to many of today's medical problems will not be found in the research laboratories of our hospitals but in our Parliaments. For the prospective patient, the answer may not be cured by an incision at the operating table but prevention by decision at the Cabinet Table. If you look at most of the big killer diseases of today they are not caused by nature, but by our way of life. 
We in this Parliament must decide whether we will take a small step to contain public health expenditure. Will we undertake a positive preventive medicine program by all available to control the spread of the epidemic of smoking? This inevitably raises the question of whether the rights of the individual are in jeopardy if a government takes steps to discourage a course of conduct which is now pursued by a minority in our community. It is now socially acceptable that people do not smoke. If because of government action to control smoking we are accused of interfering in the civil liberties of the individual, I believe that that is one label which we must now wear. The tobacco industry and its promotion assistants cannot be allowed to use the argument that every individual has a choice whether to smoke or not to smoke and no government should be seen to interfere with that freedom to make that choice. I certainly am not saying that a person who now smokes should have some penalty imposed upon him or her. There are many smokers who have a keen desire to give up smoking. Governments must do everything they can to assist that person. 
The group that concerns me is the youth of our country. Young people are not mature enough, they are not experienced enough to identify the deceitful practices of the tobacco industry. When our young citizens go to a cricket or football match and see the name of a well known brand of cigarettes displayed on the fence around the sports ground, they register that display as a colorful background for what would otherwise be a healthy recreational pursuit. When our young people enter a country town on every day of the school year they will inevitably pass and advertising sign of substantial dimensions which will subtly and discreetly remind them that the outdoor life on the back of a horse or on the beaches of Australia is enhanced if you have a cigarette in your hand. Alternatively, a young man's sexual achievements will be greater if a cigarette is offered to his beautiful young companion. 
Those industry practices should be exposed for the fraud that they are. It is no longer sufficient to print 'Warning- Smoking Is a Health Hazard* on the cigarette packet. It should be stated in large type that smoking can cause death, smoking causes disease, smoking is an unhealthy habit. Indeed, I would go further and suggest that there should be a total ban on the advertising of tobacco products. Accordingly, Federal, State and local governments should work together to ensure that there is no advertising medium whatsoever in any part of this country advertising smoking. I would like to develop some policies attractive to the implementation of an anti-smoking campaign. I ask for incorporation in  Hansard  of the policy which has already been accepted by the Executive Committee of the International Union against Cancer and the Scientific Committee on the Non-Tuberculosis Respiratory Diseases of the International Union Against Tuberculosis. 
Leave granted. 
1 ) Achievement of lower smoking rates in all age groups of the population. This implies the application of whatever downward pressures on smoking rates that are practical. These might include health warnings on packets, taxation manipulation, restrictions on smoking opportunities, encouragement of the rights of the non-smoker, as well as measures such as are involved in political, publicity and education programmes. 
The encouragement of non-smokers to remain nonsmokers. The emphasis of this programme is on youth. 
3 ) The cessation of all forms of tobacco promotion. 
Those who have not yet stopped smoking, and therefore remain at high risk, should be encouraged to reduce, as far as possible, their exposure to harmful components of tobacco smoke. 
To maintain liaison with other health organisations and authorities to ensure maximum effectiveness and avoid conflict of activities. 
To achieve public health control of relevant industrial and environmental factors which contribute to lung cancer. 
-I thank the House. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is it a fact that the architectural firm of John Andrews International Pty Ltd of Sydney is one of six finalists in an international competition for the design of the multi-million dollar headquarters of the International Telecommunications Satellite Organisation, Intelsat, in Washington in the United States of America? What is the significance of this announcement to Australia? 
-Is the Minister for Home Affairs aware of statements made earlier this week about the standing of Australian sports men and women in world ratings? Is the Minister able to state what government programs will help the people of Australia to again achieve excellence in sport? Does the Minister consider that government programs already introduced in the area of sport, recreation and the use of leisure time should be further developed? If so, in what areas? 
-by leave-I thank the House for giving me the opportunity to make a few short comments. It is a pity that on a matter which is of significance to the environment and conservation in Australia that those who have been involved in an extensive survey of existing legislation are given such limited time to speak on this matter. It is no excuse to say that the matter will be listed for discussion at a later date when ministerial statements are made because the practice appears to be that that opportunity is never given. 
I take up the point made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen).  He emphasised that the report came from a group of members of this House from all parties and that it was a unanimous report. I think that is significant and should be noted by the Government when it undertakes its review of this legislation. I turn now to some of the recommendations in the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. They emphasise the intent of the Committee that environmental and conservation considerations be discussed openly and without the privacy of government inquiries and government departmental actions. For example, I refer to recommendation No. 5 which states that a memorandum of understanding should be made public. Recommendation No. 12 states that the Minister should provide details of the reasons why a direction on an environmental impact statement on particular proposals is not given. Recommendation No. 13 suggests that the Minister should respond to requests for information within a period of three months. Recommendation No. 17 relates to the Australian Heritage Commission Act. It states that property owners, persons and organisations with identifiable interests and local authorities should be notified in writing of a decision to proceed with the listing of a nominated place. Those recommendations show just where the Committee believes amendments should be made to allow greater public participation and discussion on matters affecting the environment and conservation. 
I turn now to the matter of witnesses appearing before the committee. There were many witnesses. I think over 70 gave evidence to the Committee. Of course many were very co-operative and of great assistance to the Committee. But I would like to mention just a couple. The Australian Conservation Foundation was extremely helpful, as it always is in inquiries by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I get a little tired of those who seek to use the ACF as a whipping-boy for anti-conservation and anti-environmental outbursts. The ACF has always demonstrated a willingness to work with the Committee, and therefore this Parliament. It should be encouraged instead of denigrated at every opportunity, as it is by some members on this side of the House. 
I mention also the failure of some Government departments to co-operate with the Committee. For example, the Department of the Treasury- I refer to paragraph 56 of the report- refused to supply any information to the Committee. I think that that is getting very close to being a contempt of this Parliament; the House of Representatives Standing Committee is being ignored in its work and in its inquiry. Another Government department failed to co-operate. Indeed, only after a great deal of pressure was applied did it indicate that it would give information informally. It should be noted that the Committee gave serious consideration to subpoenaing the necessary people from that department to appear before it to give evidence. I want to record that that is a very serious defect of some Government departments which affects the proper workings of this House. 
I again emphasise the lack of time available. One could deal with many points. The Australian Heritage Commission is one of those organisations which is greatly misunderstood- perhaps deliberately misunderstood- by some who are seeking to have conservation legislation amended. I believe that this misunderstanding, to a great extent, would be removed if people read this report. Many of the red herrings which have been introduced into this subject could be removed with a proper reading and interpretation of this report. 
I conclude by saying that we will be spending much time and hundreds of thousands of dollars in preparing for a bicentenary celebration of occupation of this country by white people. The bicentenary is on 26 January 1988. I hope that then we will be able to say that at least in the decade leading up to that 200th anniversary the Australian Government and the Australian Parliament have done something to protect the environment and to conserve this country. 
-May I first make a comment in relation to the House of Representatives Estimates committees. The Estimates committees are a new approach to the  examination of and debate on the Estimates following the presentation of the Budget by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  Whilst there will be some honourable members who will be very critical of the way in which some of those Estimates committees operated, I would like to go on record as saying that I think it was well worth while and a novel introduction which may well have greater relevance at a later date. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The level of conversation is too high. I remind honourable members that we are now engaged in a completely new procedure in the history of this House. I ask honourable members to acknowledge the occasion and remain silent so that the procedures may flow smoothly. 
Some honourable members have been critical of the Opposition for having used Estimates committees as an opportunity to grandstand or cross-examine Ministers or officers of the relevant department to the detriment of the Government. I reject that notion because I 

<graphic href="116131197910243_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

think that is what Parliament is all about. If we cannot stand up to criticism then it is a rather sad state of affairs in this Parliament. I recommend the continuation of the Estimates committees and in fact an extension of them to the stage at which they may convene before the Budget is drawn up so that the input of Government members can be so much greater in the final formulation of the Budget. 
One committee which I attended dealt with the proposed expenditure by the Parliament. I asked how many of the parliamentary committee reports which have been tabled in this House have been commented upon within the sixmonth period which had been stipulated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he made an announcement on 25 May 1978. By courtesy of  Mr Pettifer,  the  Clerk  of the House, I now have that information and I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="116131197910243_42_2.jpg"></graphic>

I refer to just two of the reports. Firstly, the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was tabled on 1 June 1978. Sixteen months later we have had no response from any Minister in this House. May I refer to some of the findings and recommendations of that Committee, in particular to two recommendations found in paragraphs 14 and 15 of that report. The report was read avidly by every local government council and every local government association in this country. It was applauded. Those bodies are still waiting to see what the Government will do. Paragraph 14 states: 
the Commonwealth Government recognised explicitly its obligation to compensate municipalities for loss of general rate revenue as a consequence of Commonwealth Government immunity in respect of Crown property, and 
the right of Commonwealth Government statutory authorities, not subject to the Audit Act 1901, to determine whether their own policy as to the payment of rates be removed and that they be required as a matter of course to follow overall Commonwealth Government policy. 
Paragraph 15 reads: 
all Commonwealth departments and instrumentalities comply with State and local government laws, regulations and schemes; and 
non-compliance on the grounds of overriding national interest should only occur where the Commonwealth Government departments or instrumentalities involved are specifically exempt by Act or regulation. 
Those particular recommendations were recognised as a genuine attempt by a parliamentary committee to assist local government in an inequitable situation which currently exists whereby many municipalities are impoverished because a number of Commonwealth Government properties in their areas are not subject to the payment of rates. I only mention these matters to highlight the fact that they were quite urgent and were in need of comment within the six-month period. In the course of the consideration of the matter all government departments were approached and asked whether they would make a contribution to the deliberations of the Committee. 
I would like to refer to a couple of quotations from the body of the report which identifies the problem that the Committee found. The Committee was concerned to gain an appreciation of the perception by Commonwealth Government departments and instrumentalities of the relationship between policies and programs of the Commonwealth and the urban environment. I will select just some of the quotations from the report. The first is: 
The evidence revealed lack of perception in a number of departments and instrumentalities, including those with key policy responsibilities. 
Another is: 
The Department - 
Here we are talking about the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs- declined to make a submission to the Committee. 
It did subsequently, but it was still not satisfactory. Another quote is: 
The Committee can only conclude that the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs has no perception as to the relationship between its activities and their impact on the urban environment. 
Again, paragraph 27 on page 9 of the report states: 
The Committee received a disappointing three page submission from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs . . . 
Again, subsequently the Department put in a supplementary submission. There are many quotes similar to that where the findings of the Committee were that it was a serious matter and the Parliament ought to consider whether in fact there was any sensibility whatsoever with a number of departments which were making decisions affecting the urban environment. Yet after 16 months we have not had a reply from those Ministers responsible for those departments. It may be that they can answer the allegations made by that Committee. I am sure that the Committee members would welcome any comment which could be made on them. I urge the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  to take this matter up and pursue it to the extent that we hope to have a report tabled fairly shortly. 
Another report brought down by the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation was the Quinkan Galleries report. It was only yesterday that the report of the Australian Heritage Commission for 1978-79 was tabled. A number of the parts of that report were highlighted by the media- and rightly so- in relation to Aboriginal sites. The Quinkan Galleries report was tabled on 22 May and therefore the six-month period is not yet up. But I hope that a relationship will be established between the Minister responsible for the Quinkan Galleries report, the report of the Austraiian Heritage Commission and the findings in relation to Aboriginal sites which are set out on page 3 of the report, because there is certainly an urgent need to look at areas like the Quinkan Galleries near Laura in north Queensland and many others around the country. I shall quote again from that report in the hope of highlighting some of the inadequacies which the Australian Heritage Commission is experiencing in its desire to protect the national estate on behalf of us all. The Commission makes this point: 
The rapidity of the weathering of painting and rock engraving sites is now an issue being widely considered by conservators throughout Australia. Whilst vandalism remains a considerable problem in some areas possibly the most vexatious problems are associated with the natural weathering process at art sites. 
The action of wind, water, plants and animals, including man, touching or rubbing the surface of both paintings and engraving sites means that in many instances we can expect only a photographic record of a large number of sites within twenty years, simply by natural forces. 
I have had the privilege of visiting some of those Quinkan Galleries. They are galleries which ought never to be lost to mankind. In fact I go so far as to say that some of those wishing to promote them as tourist sites ought to be discouraged so that no person, apart from the Aborigines themselves and genuine students of Aboriginal art works and rock paintings in particular, is able to visit those sites. 
I conclude by referring very briefly to another committee, that is, the House of Representatives Estimates Committee which met to consider the estimates for the Department of Health last night. I will highlight just one aspect about which I am particularly concerned and that is the lack of commitment to the extent necessary for preventive health schemes in the national health programs. Only 3!6 per cent of the total health bill is spent on preventive health programs. While we have an identification of programs such as the drug education program, dental health and community health, the National Heart Foundation, the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria and other bodies are crying out for funds to be able to promote the preventive aspects of health. I think we need to consider very seriously that aspect too as a national commitment as part of a long term program. I know that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  made the comment that the national health promotion program which is due to start very shortly will be the first step in perhaps having a national health program which will really be concerned about the health of this nation. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of a report alleging that $250,000 has been wasted in transferring Australian aid to Kampuchea because the Royal Australian Air Force could not be used for that purpose? Is that report correct? 
-by leave-This report is an indictment against the Soviet Union. It documents the alleged devotion of the Soviet Union to human rights. There are, in fact, repeated blatant denials of the fundamental rights which should be accorded to every citizen in 1979. Citizens in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics are deprived of basic human rights. They are deprived of freedom to practise religion. Soviet citizens are persecuted because of their ethnic origin. Racial prejudice is practised by the State. Dissidents are imprisoned because of their political views and citizens cannot enforce those human rights enshrined in their Constitution. World commentators will examine this report and critically analyse whether the findings and recommendations from the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence should be taken seriously or, if there are weaknesses, distortions or inaccuracies, whether this report and consequently the reports of all other committees emanating from this Parliament should be ignored in the future. 
Every member of this House and every member of the Senate will be judged on the basis of this document. The Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence could either lack credibility or lack standing within Australia and internationally as an arm of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia seeking truth and morality in international relations. I do not believe that this will be the case. It was, however, one of the dangers which was inherent in tackling this sensitive subject. The relationship between Australia and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could be damaged by this report. However, I doubt that this will be the case. International morality has demanded that this subject be tackled and the deceit of the Soviet Government be exposed. If this report is adjudged to be prejudiced, to lack foundation in fact or to utter one intemperate comment, the report, the Committee, this House and this Parliament could stand condemned by every individual concerned with the protection of human rights in the world. We could be criticised by our colleagues in other parts of the world for not doing our job efficiently and with skill. Our Parliament could be ridiculed by institutions in other countries and by world bodies keen to protect the rights and privileges, and to promote the responsibilities, of the individual in a complex, competitive and jealous world. 
In accepting this reference on Human Rights in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics the Sub-committee placed itself in an invidious position. If the report is not sound, the primary responsibility therefor must be borne by the members of that Sub-committee. The Labor and Liberal members of that Sub-committee were unanimous in their support for every paragraph. It will be noted that some members of the full Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence have expressed some concern with one paragraph in the report and others have questioned whether the Parliament should have accepted this reference and referred it to the Joint Parliamentary Committee. 
I reiterate that this report is the product of two years' work by a sub-committee comprising members from the Labor and Liberal parties. The composition of the membership of the Committee indicates that this is not a report from a group of rabid right wingers engaged in a conservative plot against a socialist regime. It cannot be alleged that there is any bias from members of this Committee. It cannot be said that there is again a group of politicians kicking 'the communist can'. Meticulous care has been taken to present a report based on facts, relying on primary sources wherever possible, knowing that the Soviet authorities will attempt to denigrate one fact or one part of the report thereby weakening the significance of the whole report. That technique is not new. 
The Soviet diplomat, Valerian Zorin, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs in the USSR, was reported in volume 16, 1978 of  New Times  as saying: 
The human rights campaign was designed to replace the old bankrupt anti-communist and anti-Soviet tenets which no longer can serve as the basis for foreign policy ... the same naked anti communism with its corollary of attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries is still there. 

 Mr Zorin was commenting on the position of the United States of America and what he considers was its pretended concern for human rights. He went on to suggest: 
It is perfectly plain that by fermenting enmity between peoples and suspicion and distrust between states, by interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states, the organisers of the campaign are acting contrary to the spirit and the letter of the final act. 
This report did not have its genesis in suspicion, in distrust, or with a desire to foment enmity against a foreign state. The initial motivation was to examine critically and to comment upon the status of Soviet Jewry and: 
Whether or not Jews in the Soviet Union are the victims of adverse discrimination in citizenship, in rights to religious practice, in rights to publish, communicate, travel, emigrate and organise. 
It will be noted that those original terms of reference which were agreed to on the 6 September 1977 following a reference from the then member for Mackellar,  Mr Bill  Wentworth, were widened on 18 October 1977, when the Committee was charged with the responsibility to examine: 
Human rights in the Soviet Union bearing in mind Australia's support for the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the final act of the Helsinki Agreement. 
Those of us who worked on the Sub-committee sought to be objective and precise at all times. We received testimony from 25 witnesses with different backgrounds, experience and knowledge on human rights in the USSR. Included in those 25 witnesses were six who had served prison sentences in the Soviet Union- for example, Pastor Grivans, who had graduated from the theological institute in Riga in 1928. He was ordained as an evangelical Lutheran pastor in that year. After his second arrest in February 1948 he was accused of anti-State propaganda under the criminal code and eventually sent to a Gulag labour camp for 10 years without being formally charged in court, without conviction and without sentence. He spent three years in a camp in the Gulag Archipelago from October 1948. He served a total of 16 years in Soviet corrective labour colonies. I invite honourable members to read his testimony in the transcript which has been tabled. 
I also refer for example to Leonid Plyushch, a Ukrainian mathematician, who graduated in 1962 from the University of Kiev and who was employed until 1968 as a research mathematician in the Cybernetic Institute of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences.  Mr Plyushch  was a dissident who was detained in Soviet psychiatric institutions from July 1973 until January 1976. Professor John Hazard, Professor of Public Law, for the past 30 years has taught Soviet law to Columbia University law students. Many of the witnesses still believe that a socialist philosophy should be universally applied. Leonid Plyushch, for example, stated: 
I still accept Marx' main philosophy and socio economic conditions and thoughts. I believe some form of socialist structure is the only sort of solution to the problems that the world is facing at the moment. 
The human rights movement throughout the world was responsible for the ultimate release by the Soviet authorities of Leonid Plyushch and the permission which was granted to him to leave the Soviet Union. It was not taken by a group of Western democratic conservative governments. In fact, if it had not been for the French Left, which included the French communist party and unions from the French Left, he would not have been released at all. It will be clear to any reader of the transcript of the public evidence which is available, or from this report, that witnesses were called to give their evidence because of expertise on the Soviet Union and its application of human rights, and not for their political allegiance or philosophy. 
Four members of the Committee-  Senator Sim, Senator Young,  the honourable member for 
Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  and the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short)-  expressed reservations about the inclusion of Article 65 in the conclusions and recommendations of the report. It is there recommended that the Australian Parliament establish a standing committee on human rights to report on serious violations of human rights in any country, including Australia- I emphasise the words 'including Australia'. It is somewhat disappointing that honourable members do not accept the intent of the Committee in making that recommendation. There are several members of both Houses who, from time to time, take action to express a view to representatives of another State on some event or series of events which have occurred, or to condemn a government for denying basic human rights. In fact, some have presented letters of protest and petitions to USSR Embassy officials expressing views on the lack of human rights being granted to individuals in their country. It is recognised that it will always be difficult to obtain evidence from governments of other countries of suppression of human rights in those countries. That should not be a disability to members of this House who are anxious to see every government adopt and practice the tenets of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the Helsinki Agreement. The appointment of a parliamentary committee for that purpose gives honourable members the opportunity to ascertain whether human rights are being ignored in another country and, if affirmed, to register their concern. 
There are also three members of the Committee who expressed reservations on the extent of the evidence which was available to the Committee. We have just heard from the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  It should be emphasised that the honourable member for Corio, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  do not dispute the findings, nor challenge the accuracy of the Committee's conclusions and recommendations. 
I respectfully suggest to those honourable members that it is naive to suggest that any parliamentary committee investigating a reference of this type- that is, the deprivation of human rights in another state- could ever obtain the total evidence which would be available. Of course it would have been valuable for members of this Sub-Committee to have visited the USSR, to have visited the psychiatric institutions which hold many of the Soviet dissenters, to have attended the trials of the dissidents, to take evidence from former refusniks now in Vienna, and to have extensive interviews with the ProcuratorGeneral to test whether, in fact, that officer is capable of performing his responsibility as spelled out in the 1977 Constitution. It would have been advantageous for the Sub-Committee to have travelled to the USSR to discuss with, and cross-examine, the Soviet authorities who administer the criminal code. But, of course, that was not possible. Does any honourable member seriously believe that that would ever be possible under the present Soviet regime? 
The members of the Sub-committee took advantage, whenever possible, of the opportunity to receive the testimony of witnesses when they were in Australia. In Annex H of the report we note, for example, that Pastor Grivans was sponsored by the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church of Australia, that it helped to bring that gentleman to this country; that  Mr Victors  Kalnins was sponsored by the Latvian Relief Society of Australia; that Leonid Plyushch was sponsored by the Victorian division of the Ukrainian Committee for the Defence of Human Rights; that the Rev. Smits was sponsored by the Latvian Federation of Australia and New Zealand; that  Mr Vaghin  was sponsored by the Russian Orthodox Brotherhood of Australia; and that Professor Voronel was sponsored by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry. The report spells it out very clearly. The fact that the parliament may not have been responsible for the payment of the fares of some of those witnesses is, I respectfully suggest, an irrelevant argument to condemn that part of the evidence which has been used by the Sub-Committee to support its findings of the denial of human rights. I invite the House to examine the transcript of evidence which is publicly available and which is the official  Hansard  transcript. Only then will each honourable member be in a position to make his or her own assessment on the credibility of witnesses. 
If one examined the documents from the Soviet Union- for example, the Soviet Constitutions of 1936 and 1977, the Helsinki Accords, the criminal code or the law on religious associations, and then took the evidence of former citizens of the Soviet Union who suffered as a result of action by Soviet authorities pursuant to Soviet law, the Committee's conclusions are found to be soundly based. The extent of Soviet co-operation is referred to in the Chairman's introduction to the report. Every effort was made by the SubCommittee to obtain an official opinion or statement but we received no reply, nor even an acknowledgement to our written requests. 
I turn now to the report. Without wishing to restate the conclusions and recommendations or other findings of fact, I would like briefly to emphasise some aspects which may not be covered by other honourable members. In the first place, I refer to the program of Russification adopted by the Soviet Union. Article 70 of the 1977 Constitution provides: 
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics is an integral federal multi national state formed on the principle of socialist federalism as the result of the free self-determination of nations and the voluntary association of equal Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Article 72 states: 
Each union republic shall retain the right freely to secede from the USSR. 
In the application of the Russification policy, fine words in the Constitution referring to free selfdetermination of nations, voluntary association of equal Soviet Socialist Republics and the right to secede are forgotten. 
Let us look at some of the evidence.  Mr Victors  Kalnins, a Latvian journalist, told the Sub-Committee: 
Even in the officially designed Latvian communist party, the Latvians are a minority and the majority is composed of Russians. 
He further states: 
The positions has reached the stage where the population of Riga, our capital, is only one-third Latvian. There is even a more extreme example. Daugavpils, another city in Latvia, has only a 9 per cent Latvian population. 

 Mr Kalnins also advised the SubCommittee that for every birth in Latvia there are four or five immigrants arriving from other parts of the USSR. I asked that witness: 
What is your belief in the inevitability of the Russification program? 
He replied: 
If the political climate of the Soviet Union does not change, then the consequence is likely to be the dilution of our nation in the sea of the Soviet Union. However, there is one optimistic note. The birthrate among the Russians is also falling and gradually it is becoming less easy for them to flood the other republics with Russian immigrants. Going even further, there is some anxiety in the ruling circles in Moscow that the birth rate is growing only in the Asian republics of the union. 
Or look at the evidence of Leonid Plyushch on the policy of Russification. He stated that Russification is becoming progressively more pronounced. He instanced the case that in 1977-78 alone, eight Ukrainian scientific journals were converted into Russian language publications. He quotes many examples of what he described as 'cultural ethnocide'. 
The Russification policy is simple in its application. The requirement for Soviet citizens to show 'nationality ' under its internal passport system and on all official forms ensures the Soviet officials the opportunity to identify and then destroy national groups within Soviets outside Russia. It does, for example, discriminate severely against Soviet Jews and the report details the nature of that discrimination as it applies to Jews and, to a lesser extent, to the other Soviet minorities like the Crimean Tartars. Anti-semitic practices adopted in the Soviet Union are summarised in Chapter 5 of the report. Before I deal with that, may I refer to the Helsinki Accords. In 1975 the Soviet Union signed the final act of the Helsinki Agreement, which states: 
The participating states will respect human rights and fundamental freedoms including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief, for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. 
Within this framework the participating states will recognise and respect the freedom of the individual to profess and practise, alone or in community with others, religion or belief acting in accordance with the dictates of his own conscience. 
That is part of the Helsinki accords which were signed by the Soviet Union four years ago. Within three years of Soviet leader Brezhnev signing that Agreement, the Soviet authorities had imprisoned or expelled the majority of the people, who with considerable courage, had openly monitored the extent of Soviet compliance with the Agreement. 
I now turn to the anti-semitic literature which is referred to in Chapter 5. The Committee received evidence, for example, that such literature is published outside the Soviet Union and we had one case referred to us where an action was taken against the Soviet officials in the USSR Embassy in France to stop the dissemination of anti-semitic literature in that country. The Committee also received copies of literature which has been distributed in Australia through the Soviet Embassy. Let me refer to one example: The Committee received a pamphlet, written by one R. Brodsky, called "The Truth About Zionism' published by Novosti Press Agency, Moscow, in 1974 and which was also freely available from the library of the cruise ship  Shota Rustaveli  in 1978 in Australian waters. One extract from that pamphlet demonstrates the anti-semitic nature of the writing. I quote: 
Zionists closely co-operated with SS Obersturmbannfuhrer Adolph Eichmann and SS Standartenfuhrer Kurt Becher, two of Hitler's henchmen, who organised mass killings of Jews. In early 1939 long before Hitler planned his 'final solution' of the Jewish question, Zionist leaders made a deal with Eichmann according to which the Nazis were to let a train of Jews leave for Palestine. 
On this particular matter the Committee recommends in paragraph 26 of the conclusions and recommendations that our Government should press the Soviet Union to cease the circulation of any anti-semitic literature in this country. I refer honourable members to Annexure F in which there is a list of some of the anti-semitic books which have been published in the USSR between 1970 and 1972 and between 1975 and 1977. The Committee found it difficult to understand Soviet thinking because there are many citizens of the Soviet Union who practise the Jewish faith who are anxious to remain as citizens of that State and who wish to continue with Jewish cultural activities within the USSR. 
I conclude by considering one matter which the Committee was careful to determine early in its deliberations and that is the question whether an investigation by a parliamentary committee into human rights in the USSR would have an adverse affect in the Soviet Union on those people whom the Committee was anxious to support. Almost without exception witness after witness confirmed that the Committee's actual hearing, let alone its final report and recommendation, was of considerable assistance to those within the Soviet Union who were seeking to establish human rights. For example, I again refer to the evidence of Viktors Kalnins. He said: 
When people are arrested, protests from outside before they are sentenced are much more effective. As an example I want to mention the case of Gunars Rode and myself. Not only do protests from outside help, they also help to raise the morale of the opponents of the regime. 
I also refer to the evidence of Professor Hazard. In the course of his examination, I asked whether protests by lawyers or legal institutions in Australia would have any influence on the denial of due process of law in the Soviet Union. Professor Hazard replied as follows: 
Yes. I think it is important. That is why I have thought work by some of my colleagues, such as Professor Telford Taylor in the United States is important. He was one of the prosecutors in the Nuremberg Trials and therefore he knew very well the present Soviet Procurator General, General Rudenko. 
When Professor Telford Taylor has criticised the proceedings that have been conducted in the Soviet Union, and particularly in many of the Jewish dissident cases, I think it is important, although they deny that it makes any impact upon them. So my feeling is that distinguished lawyers, have some reason to talk. 
That brings me to the point where  Chairman  of the Sub-Committee,  Senator John  Wheeldon- I pay tribute to the brilliance of-that man as  Chairman  of this Sub-Committee- gives three reasons in justification for the conduct of the inquiry by the Joint Committee. He referred in particular to the Soviet Union being a super power which, because of the enunciation of the rights of Soviet citizens in the Constitution, wants the world to believe that those rights are enjoyed by every citizen in that country. The  Chairman  would also say that the Soviet Union is an 'evangelising super power' seeking to persuade people outside the Soviet Union that the USSR model is one which should be followed in other nations. If this report goes some way to demonstrate the hypocrisy and deceit of that regime in its application of human rights and therefore of the regime itself, then we have succeeded. 
In speaking to this report it has been difficult to condense in the short time available the relevant parts of a precisely worded document. There are many findings of fact. In many respects the report is no more than an excellent attempt to bring all relevant detail into one volume, detail which has been documented by many others and been the subject of publicity in most countries of the world. If we are able to make this report the Christmas best seller for 1979 then we will have played some small part in helping those who are still fighting for basic human freedoms. 
It would be also my wish that every member of the Red Army Russian Song and Dance Company, presently touring Australia, could return to their homeland with a copy of the human rights in the Soviet Union report made to this Parliament. This report should be compulsory reading for every visitor, sportsman and woman and official who will visit the Soviet Union for the 1980 Moscow Olympics. This report should be read by all people interested in the freedom of the individual and by those who seek to understand how society operates in the Soviet Union. 
Motion (by  Mr Staley)-  by leave- proposed: 
That the House take note of the report. 
Can the Minister for Special Trade Representations advise the House of the latest position on moves for possible closer economic ties between Australia and New Zealand? What is the present position regarding consideration of the Industries Assistance Commission report on cheese? At what level are consultations proceeding between the two countries? To whom are the officers reporting on these matters? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Australian domestic market will not be flooded by New Zealand dairy products, particularly cheese? 
