Has the Prime Minister any comment to make on a Press report in the  Australian  of 3 March 1976 that a survey commissioned by the Federal Government is to ask people whether they think the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be abolished? 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. I refer to his recent announcement that the Government is in the process of raising a 100 million Deutsche mark loan in Germany. Can the Treasurer inform the House what progress has been made in this matter? 

 -Mr Speaker, before supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, I should like to congratulate you,  Sir, on  your election to your high office. I know I speak for many thousands of Western Australians when I say that this is an honour well deserved by one who has served this Parliament and this nation for so long and in such a distinguished manner. I should also like to congratulate the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  on his re-election to the position of  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. 
The Division of Perth is one of very diverse economic and social elements. It encompasses the city of Perth and extends northwards through a typical variety of both inner and outer suburban areas. It is certainly a microcosm of Australian society and a significant proportion of its population is afflicted by a range of problems which might unfortunately be considered typical of capital city electorates. I shall mention the nature of these problems a little later. I consider that there is a certain prestige attached to representing a capital city electorate, and I hope that I am not being merely parochial when I suggest that it is a special privilege to represent the city of Perth. We Western Australians are very proud of our State and of our capital city, and I am sure that those honourable members who have visited Perth would agree that our pride is well justified. The nature and stage of the city's development is such that it is not too late for us to learn from the problems and mistakes which have been encountered in the development of some of the larger cities in the eastern States. 
One aspect in which I shall take a particular interest is the vexed question of finding a balance between what should be retained in a city for architectural and/or historic reasons and what projects should be proceeded with for more pragmatic developmental reasons. I have long been concerned at the steady rate of disappearance of some of Perth's grand old buildings. A number are at present under threat. Although I lack technical competence both in town planning and in architectural appreciation I do have some sense of history. The seemingly inexorable process of destruction of buildings which provide us with a tangible sense of our own history has been occurring in a slow and ad hoc manner. But it does occur and, if we are not careful, residents of Western Australia will one day realise that they have left their descendents a city of tall, rectangular, concrete and glass edifices and large ugly car parks, rather than a capital city with could proudly bear the scrutiny of future generations. I hope that I might serve as a focal point for parties who are involved in and concerned with this delicate and sensitive aspect of our city's development. 
I am pleased that the Government made it clear in its pre-election policy speech that it supported the establishment of the Australian Heritage Commission and that only last week the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  stated that consideration is now being given to the appointment of an adequate staff to enable the Commission to start its initial work. I am not suggesting that all old buildings in the city should be retained. That would be absurd. But I am aware that the very heart and soul of the city is changing before our very eyes and not, in my opinion, for the better. I urge caution, in both the nature and the scale of the city's future development, and I hope, as the representative of Perth in this Parliament, to do whatever I can, no matter how limited my official role in such matters might be, to ensure that the future development of the city will be responsibly carried out. 
I would now like to speak briefly about some of the problems confronting many of the very substantial number of migrants who live in the Perth electorate. We all know of the great contribution made by migrants to both the economic and social development of this country, particularly in the postwar period. They have worked hard and successfully to build a better life for themselves and for all the people of their adopted country. The question is, however: Are we doing enough for our migrants? I have countless numbers of migrants coming into my electorate office pleading a case for the re-uniting of their families in Australia. No one doubts their contribution to Australia's development but why, then, have we not been more compassionate to them in the past on a personal level? Why should they have to bear the strain and the sorrow of having members of their closely knit families separated by thousands of miles due to inhumane and narrow immigration guidelines for family re-unification? 
I applaud the amnesty this Government has granted for illegal immigrants, but what about those who wish now to come to this country by legal means? We must also look to them. Surely these people who have done so much for this country are entitled, if they so wish and if they can provide the appropriate maintenance and accommodation guarantees, to a more compassionate policy for family re-unification. I welcome, therefore, that section of this Government's policy on immigration and ethnic affairs which states: 
The presence of close family relationships in Australia will be an important consideration when approving migrant entry cases. 
Secondly, the policy states: 
Specific provisions will be introduced to enable cases to be reviewed on compassionate grounds. 
I trust that this Government's immigration policy will be implemented in a manner which is befitting such a worthwhile principle. I also welcome those aspects of the Governor-General's Speech relating to immigrants as being essential to any successful and humane immigration program and I also urge the Government to give serious consideration to the suggestions in the Henderson report directed at eradicating some of the deficiencies and prejudices which our social welfare system presently contains regarding migrants. I look forward during my stay in this House to protecting and furthering the best interests of Australia's migrants. They are deserving of such treatment by all members of all parties and at all levels of government. 
I referred earlier to some of the problems which are apparent in my electorate and which are probably typical of inner suburban electorates throughout this country. These are problems of housing, poverty, unemployment, immigration, the aged, the sick and the poorly educated. Let us not fool ourselves; collectively, Australia might be regarded as a prosperous society, but assertions to this effect bring no comfort to the many thousands of Australians who live in abject poverty in and around our capital cities. The incidence and the extent of poverty in Australia is well documented in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, a Commission which, incidentally, was established under the McMahon Liberal Government. That report revealed that nearly one in five income units in Australian society is either very poor or close to it. Perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the inquiry was that it revealed that there were 250 000 dependent children in very poor families in this country. In a country with such natural potential as ours- we are always talking about this- that amounts to almost criminal negligence. 
Because I live in and represent an electorate in which there is a great deal of poverty and personal hardship, particularly in the inner suburbs of Penh, I intend to devote much of my time in this House to welfare matters. As an economist by training and as a strong supporter of the private enterprise economic system, I shall also be taking a keen interest in the economic policy making area. I regard both these areas of specialisation as being totally compatible and, in fact, entirely interdependent. In making what I hope will be constructive suggestions for welfare management in this country, I must express my concern at the way in which honourable members opposite keep insisting that we are a businessman's government. This is just not the case. We do not represent just the business community; if we did, I would not support this Government or belong to the Liberal Party. We represent the interests of all Australians. What we do represent is a government committed to the best ideals of a private enterprise system- the most productive economic system yet devised. But we do reject laissez-faire. I remind honourable members opposite that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated last year, when he was Leader of the Opposition: 
No business corporation has any right to survival unless it can justify its existence by the contribution it makes to a better life for the average Australian. 
Is that the voice of a Prime Minister whose Party is charged with representing only business interests? Certainly not. In supporting private enterprise, I must emphasise that we do not do it for sectional interests; we do it because we believe that it is the best system yet devised, if responsibly managed, to increase the standard of living for all Australians. That is why I see a mutual compatibility of interests between my support for a government which espouses the cause of free enterprise and my personal desire to become involved in both economic and welfare management matters. 
I would like, therefore, to spend some time in suggesting what I consider to be a more reasonable, more effective and more humane method of assisting the deprived people of Australia than has hitherto been the case. My suggestions do not necessarily require an increase in government expenditure. I simply suggest that existing welfare payments be disbursed in a way which will not add to total expenditure but which, if done on a more selective basis, will ensure that more assistance will go to those whose needs are greatest. I hope that in the future, when circumstances permit, it will be possible to restrain total expenditure and still preserve the rights and privileges of the disadvantaged people in Australia by ensuring that the whole spectrum of welfare payments is applied more selectively and less universally. The application of universal welfare payments in place of selective benefits is an inhumane strategy in a country in which resources are limited and in which poverty still very obviously exists. I have never been able to understand why a millionaire should be entitled to receive a pension while there are still poor people in this country. I agree that when one's working life has ended, one should be able to expect, in a country such as ours, that there will be no deterioration in one 's living standards. 
I also agree that the means test may be too stringent, it may be abused and, if not properly administered, it may be unfair to the many middle income earners in the so-called grey area of eligibility. In certain circumstances there is much to commend the universal provision of such welfare benefits; it is in accord, in my opinion, with the best interests of a democratic society. I submit, however, in view of the findings of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, that those happy circumstances do not yet exist in Australia. If the ability to pay is used as the basis of collecting revenue then the logical corollary is to support a criterion of need as the basis for welfare disbursement from that revenue within our present social welfare system. After all, progressive taxation has a much greater redistribution effect than either regressive levies or proportionate contributions in the funding of welfare schemes. I am therefore pleased that the Governor-General's Speech indicated that the Government would be reviewing the concept of the income security system as a whole, including the effectiveness of guaranteed minimum income proposals in overcoming poverty. I sincerely hope that the spirit of the Henderson Commission's recommendation on income security, which provides that money will be distributed where it is most needed, will be implemented. 
Much has already been said by the Prime Minister regarding the failure of the Labor Government to provide for the poor and disadvantaged groups. These comments have been supported by the Henderson Committee when discussing the adverse effects of high inflation and unemployment rates on the poorer and weaker sections of the Australian community. I will not add to those comments. However, I would urge the Government to give urgent and close consideration to the many worthwhile recommendations of the Henderson report. I have studied the report in some detail and whilst I do have some reservations about the recommendations of that report I have no reservations at all about the need to act urgently to eradicate from this country the degree of poverty which has been so effectively and expertly disclosed by the Commission. 
I would like to thank the electors of Perth for the confidence they have expressed in my Party and in my Party's platform. I can assure them that I will tackle their problems assiduously as their problems, whether they be problems of immigration, social security or education, are all national problems. I would remind them that I am now a member of the House of Representatives. It is therefore my duty to represent their interests and I can best do this if they take every opportunity to avail themselves of my services. Might I say in conclusion that late on the first evening I spent in this Parliament House, when most honourable members had left, I ran into the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)quite  a formidable experience. At that stage he had not realised that most of the new faces in this place were Liberal faces. We introduced ourselves and he assured me that my stay in the Parliament would be only a temporary appointment. I remind the honourable member that when  Mr Fred  Chaney first won the seat of Perth in 1955 his predecessor said exactly the same thing and  Mr Chaney  remained the member for Perth for 1 5 years. I hope that my stay in Parliament will be at least as temporary as that of  Mr Fred  Chaney and that I will represent the electorate of Perth with the same degree of integrity and distinction. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and I reject the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins). 
I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does the right honourable gentleman have any information concerning appeals by political parties to multinational companies for funds? 
I am pleased to support both Bills. But in particular I should like to speak to the Social Services Amendment Bill and concentrate more on some principles implicit in that Bill. I support some of the reservations expressed by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  Before dealing with the Bill itself I point to a number of popular misconceptions about this Government's attitude to pensioners and to social services in general. I think this is essential in view of the degree of selfadulation in which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  indulged. Firstly, it is often wrongly reported that the payment of these pension increases of $2.50 per week for the standard rate pension and $4 a week for pensioner couples has been delayed for one month by this Government. This is just not correct. The Whitlam Labor Government delayed the pension payments by one month from October 1975 to November 1975. The present Government is now increasing the pension exactly 6 months after the increases last granted by the Labor Government. This is in keeping with the Government 's pledge to increase pensions every 6 months. 
Also contrary to recent Press reports, pensioners will receive the same percentage increase in their pensions as was recently granted to wage and salary earners by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. These pension increases honour the Government's undertaking to maintain the real value of pensions by incorporating the full increase of 6.4 per cent in the consumer price index for the 6 months ended 31 December 1975. It is this adjustment process which I am particularly pleased to support. For too many years pensioners, particularly those whose income is almost entirely dependent on the pension, have not been given an adequate sense of security or social justice. Security has been denied them by the way in which successive governments have refused to set down a clear policy regarding payment of pensions according to a regular and clearly defined adjustment mechanism. For too long the pensioner's income has been determined more by political expediency than by humanitarian criteria. Surely a pensioner, as a person who has worked all his or her life for this country, is entitled to more compassionate treatment from the present generation of workers and policy makers. 
It should also be noted that the former Labor Government promised in 1972 to increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. But this was a promise it was unable to achieve. On the basis of average weekly earnings for the December 1975 quarter the pension at the November increased rate represented 23.7 per cent of average weekly earnings and on the date of payment prior to this it represented just over 24 per cent of average weekly earnings. The figure of 25 per cent was not achieved. Furthermore, the method of adjusting the pension at this time was changed by the Labor Government. The previous Government decided in the 1975 Budget that pensions should be adjusted in line with CPI changes, as this Government has now decided. With broken promises and short-term changes to an adjustment mechanism where is the security for the pensioner? That is Labor's record. 
The present government is now providing a pensioner with the security of knowing that each 6 months the CPI will be used as a regular adjustment mechanism by which the real value of the pension is preserved. That is an essential guarantee in view of the record inflation rate experienced in this country over the past 3 years. Another misconception is that a Labor government is the only government which can possess an enlightened social welfare policy. How magnanimous was a government which produced the highest level of unemployment since the Depression? One must remember that Professor Henderson stated that unemployment-  (Quorum formed)  I am grateful for the increased audience. I had referred to the magnanimity of the previous Government in matters of social welfare and I was asking how magnanimous was it when it created the highest level of unemployment since the Depression. Professor Henderson has stated that unemployment is a major cause of poverty in Australia. Further, how enlightened was the Labor Government's social welfare policy when that Government's permissiveness caused the highest level of inflation in this country's history. Again I refer to the report of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, which stated: ... no country with a continuing inflation rate of over 10 per cent per annum has been able to prevent this causing hardship to important groups of poor people. 
Under the Labor Government, inflation was always well above that figure. By hurting the poor in that way, the Labor Government inflicted hardship on the pensioner, and the relationship in Australia between the pensioner and the poor is quite obvious. The income survey referred to by the Henderson Commission indicated that the largest group of people living in poverty in this country consists of those who are over 65 years of age. Where is the enlightened welfare policy in a government which imposes that rate of inflation on pensioners? How magnanimous was its attempt to revolutionise Australian society by turning upside down rather than modifying existing social service systems in Australia? 
It should be noted that the late Professor Downing in the 1974 George Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture estimated that the introduction of Labor's compensation, superannuation and health insurance schemes would mean an increase in taxation of 25 per cent. That figure was expressed in 1973-74 money terms and did not include all Labor's welfare programs. So much for those popular misconceptions. I am prepared to admit that in the past both Liberal and Labor Governments have not treated welfare recipients as well as they might have. Both the level and the method of adjustment of pensions over a longer period of time has not been completely satisfactory. However, at the present time this Government in my opinion is applying the most appropriate form of adjustment- that is via the consumer price index- for the present economic circumstances and is to be commended for ensuring a regular stipulated increase in the pension according to that adjustment. 
There has been much debate over many years regarding the most suitable method of adjusting pensions, and generally this debate has centred between discussion as to the efficacy of the average weekly earnings series and the consumer price index as the most appropriate method of adjustment. This Government's present policy of adjusting pensions according to changes in the CPI has been criticised in the past by pensioner groups and by the Labor Party. In that respect, it is interesting to note that in the 1975 Budget the Whitlam Labor Government adopted just such a procedure. In view of that, the Opposition cannot now criticise it. It should be realised that while wage indexation is operating in Australia, both pensions and average weekly earnings are being influenced largely by the same forces. Discussion as to the best adjustment mechanism has therefore become slightly less meaningful. Nevertheless, it should be noted that although historically the incomes of wage earners, and hence average weekly earnings, have moved at about the same rate as incomes overall, recent events have shown that sharp differences can occur. In 1975, whereas average weekly earnings increased by 11.3 per cent the consumer price index rose by 1 4 per cent. That was a period which coincided with the decline in Australia's gross domestic product at constant prices, and if the pension had been indexed to average weekly earnings last year there would have been a decline in the real value of the pension. 
The influence of such factors as over-award wages and overtime payments on average weekly earnings is likely to diminish with the severe stagflation conditions which have prevailed in the past, but the impact of inflation on those conditions has been both severe and very ^discriminate. To the extent that the 1975 relationship between average weekly earnings and the CPI was characteristic of stagflation periods, adjusting pensions by the CPI is surely the most appropriate policy at this particular time and in these particular economic circumstances. However, it is to be hoped that present economic circumstances will be changed by this Government, and they will be changed. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  has already stated in this House the Government's objective to reduce inflation and thereby increase the level of domestic economic activity and reduce unemployment. In striving for that objective the Government is really attempting, in the context of this debate, to reduce the rate of increase in the CPI and increase the rate of increase in average weekly earnings via productivity increases. Surely that is a desirable economic and welfare objective. 
In those circumstances, and statistics bear this out, over a longer term adjusting pensions to average weekly earnings is of more benefit to the pensioner. Although that is not the case at present, when this Government's economic objectives are achieved a reappraisal of the method by which pensions are adjusted will be required. At this point I refer again to the findings of the Henderson Commission of the close correlation between poverty and the aged, and I draw on a definition of poverty used by J. K. Galbraith in his book  The Affluent Society: 
People are poverty stricken when their income, even if adequate for survival, falls markedly behind that of the community. 
That definition is in line with contemporary thinking on the nature and concept of poverty. In other words, if inflation is to become negligible, and we all hope that that will be the case, and if community living standards increase, as we also hope will be the case, an adjustment of pensions to account only for inflation would merely sustain an absolute standard of living rather than provide an assurance that a standard relative to the community at large was maintained. 
There are many factors which make the index of average weekly earnings an imperfect measure of community living standards. Nevertheless, over a longer period of time the average weekly earnings series provides a reasonable indicator of the level of earnings in the community and, as such, is a more suitable indicator than the CPI, which makes no allowance for rising productivity and changes in real living standards. For those who are concerned about the future of pensioners when the CPI reaches a respectable lower level, I would say that a change in the adjustment mechanism would then be appropriate, but not before then. To the extent that such a decline in the CPI will lead to economic recovery and increase productivity, which this Government maintains is the proper causal relationship, a movement to an indicator of real income changes would be more appropriate. The Government could then reasonably convert its concern for adjusting money incomes to preserve the real value of pensions to a concern to alter their real value. In the present circumstances the CPI is the most appropriate mechanism and I am pleased to support the pension increases recommended in the legislation, as no doubt honourable members opposite are because it was their 1975 Budget policy to use the CPI as the basis for adjusting pensions. 
However, should high rates of inflation, such as those we have experienced over the past 3 years, prevail in the near future I would suggest several things: Firstly, the Government might consider increasing pensions quarterly in order to prevent the erosion of the value of pension increases which were paid on the basis of previous quarterly price index changes. Secondly, consideration might be given to finding a price index of more relevance to pensioners than the present CPI. The CPI is a quarterly measure of variations in retail prices for goods and services representing a high proportion of the expenditure of wage earner households. Such wage earner households, according to the commission of inquiry into poverty, are much better off than pensioners. Their pattern of expenditure therefore is not the same. I would also suggest that when economic conditions improve the Government might examine the merits of adjusting pensions by using an index of gross domestic products per head of population. I am not suggesting that this would prove to be the most acceptable method of adjustment, but being aware of the deficiencies in both the average weekly earnings series and the CPI adjustment methods I do feel that some investigation of the alternatives is desirable. 
The discussion as to what is the best method of reserving the real value of pensions and benefits is certainly important, but it is equally important to assess what is the appropriate level to be preserved. This involves value judgments as to both the nature of the pension and its level of remuneration. All social service pensions are set at arbitrary levels although not without due consideration of what might be adequate. In determining what is adequate subjective evaluation becomes dominant. That is what determines whether the pension should be 22 per cent, 28 per cent or any other percentage of average weekly earnings. More importantly, how often are such arbitrary levels reviewed? Is not too much emphasis placed on methods of preserving a certain real pension level rather than deciding the level which should be preserved? Surely the level of the pension which is considered adequate at any point of time should be reviewed at regular intervals in the light of changing economic, social and technological circumstances. Even the nature of the pension itself should be considered periodically and outside the constraints of contemporary or conventional welfare thinking. I am therefore particularly pleased that this Government is to proceed with a review of the income security system as a whole, including the effectiveness of guaranteed minimum income proposals in an endeavour to overcome poverty. 
I am pleased to support both Bills and the thrust of the Government's social welfare policy generally. The thrust of the policy is, firstly, to concentrate resources on areas of need and secondly, to preserve the real value of pensions and other major welfare benefits. I applaud the Government's courage in being prepared to make in the short term difficult and politically unpopular decisions in order to remedy the disastrous economic circumstances inherited from the Labor Government and thereby improve the living standards of all Australians including age pensioners, the unemployed, the sick and the handicapped. These Bills represent this Government's very genuine concern for the hardships imposed on the disadvantaged sections of the community which have been affected very seriously by the economic difficulties experienced over the past few years. I am pleased therefore to have been given the opportunity to support both the Social Services Amendment Bill and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill. I also reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to recent events in Cambodia and seeks additional information to that obtained when a question on this matter was asked in February. Is the Minister aware of recent reports from Cambodia which allege that between 500 000 and 600 000 people, or 8 per cent of the total population, have died in mass executions since the present regime came to power? Is he also aware that such executions have included the bayoneting and clubbing to death of women and children and that many babies have been murdered by soldiers tearing their bodies apart? I ask the Minister, firstly: Will he, if it is possible to do so, have his Department check the authenticity of these reports? Secondly, will he indicate to the House what standards of human behaviour will be tolerated by this 
Government before it ceases to recognise officially a regime of the kind presently governing Cambodia? Finally- and although I accept that such action will not alleviate the circumstances of the people of Cambodia- if these allegations are proved correct, will the Government immediately rescind its official recognition of the regime in Cambodia as a gesture of Australia's contempt for the regime's inhumane treatment of the people of Cambodia? 
I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate. I want to concentrate in particular on Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) and especially the family allowances proposals, which have been overlooked by honourable members opposite during the course of this debate. I welcome the Bill because it indicates to me that while the Government on the one hand is prepared to make difficult and perhaps politically unpopular decisions to combat unemployment and inflation, on the other hand it is determined to ensure that the weaker and the poorer sections of the community will not suffer. More than that, the Government is determined to ensure that these people will have their living standards substantially and positively improved. 
The remarks by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  totally ignored the benefits accruing to the poor people in Australia and which will flow from these proposals. As I said in my speech in the Address-in-Reply debate, the incidence and the extent of poverty in Australia was well documented in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia. That report revealed that nearly one in five income units in Australian society is either very poor or close to it. A further most disturbing aspect of this inquiry was that it revealed that there were 250 000 dependent children in very poor families in Australia. In this context it is of great significance, in relation to the Government's decision to use the vehicle of family allowance to direct resources away from the relatively well off to the poor, that the report showed quite clearly that the group of people in the community whose incomes fall below the poverty line by the biggest percentage were in large families whose fathers were earning the minimum wage or a little more. I should like to quote from the outline of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty. At page 7 it states: 
Indeed, one of the most disturbing aspects of the situation was that there were a quarter of a million dependent children in very poor families, many of them in 2 -parent families with the father in full employment. For these people current rates of child endowment are grossly inadequate. We therefore recommend that substantial increases be made in rates of child endowment and that taxation allowances for children be replaced by tax credits which should be added to child endowment to help poorer families. 
In this Bill the Government is now implementing the principles of that recommendation of the Commission. 
I take this opportunity to state that I was amazed at the comments of the Leader of the Opposition in the Western Australian Parliament,  Mr Jamieson,  who was quoted in the  West Australian  newspaper last Saturday as saying: 
The semi-Budget would only significantly benefit a handful of people on the highest incomes. 
That is a gross misrepresentation of the facts. This was further borne out by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this House yesterday when he produced figures to show that allegations by  Mr Hawke,  who claimed that 57 per cent of the Australian people would be worse off as a result of the total package, were completely wrong.  Mr Hawke  's allegations were also reported in the  West Australian  newspaper of last Saturday. I am surprised that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  earlier in this debate, when summing up their comments on these proposals, would not acknowledge the benefits of income redistribution which accrue from the family allowance proposals. 
In further support of these proposals I also mention that the Government has paid particular attention to the needs of families with only one breadwinner, especially sole parent families. As a group, sole parent families constitute a large 
Proportion of the 300 000 families and their 00 000 children who do not receive the full benefit of the existing rebates for children and students and accordingly who will be among the principal beneficiaries of these measures. The Government has recognised that the previous system of taxation rebates for dependent children benefited those in the high tax brackets and did little for the really poor families, particularly those who did not pay any income tax at all. The rebates were of no value to them, but now their children will benefit substantially. 
In the last few years there have been large increases in assistance to poor people who are eligible for pensions and benefits. Between May 1972 and May 1976 the standard rate of pension increased by 126 per cent, but by contrast the additional allowance for children of pensioners increased by only 66 per cent and child endowment payments, which remained stationary in nominal terms, declined steeply in real value because of the rate of inflation experienced in Australia over the last few years. These changes have been to the detriment of poor people with children. Under the system of tax rebates the poor people who did not have a tax liability because of their low incomes received no advantage and the tax system therefore operated as a kind of reverse means test because only those above a certain income level received any advantage. 
This Government regards it as imperative that the poor families who did not benefit much if at all from the rebate system should receive the additional financial help which this Bill will provide. By this new system of family allowances the Government is giving recognition to all parents of the extra responsibilities they carry, not merely to the taxpayers amongst them. I think it should also be recognised- this is of particular significance to middle income earners- that the impact of the withdrawal of the tax rebates on pay packets themselves will be reduced because of the effects of personal income tax indexation. 
I have always been unhappy with the previous system of tax rebates combined with small child endowment payments. It was not only that the poor did not benefit; the rich, who benefited most from the money they received from the tax concessions for their children, used what to them was a small and marginally insignificant child endowment payment either to swell their children's bank accounts or to purchase luxury items for them. At least now the relatively well off in the community will have less opportunity to do this. I have always felt that this was an abuse of scarce government resources, particularly when there were many poor families who needed much more in the way of family allowances to provide better food, clothing and other basic or essential items for their children. The real value of family allowances now will be felt more by those who need them. Although child endowment is not means tested, the impact of the combined measures- that is, the increases in endowment payments and the abolition of tax rebates for children- has a similar effect to that of a means test and quite properly will ensure that resources will be directed away from the relatively well off families and into the hands of the poorer families in Australia. 
It automatically follows that this has another important implication. It means a much fairer and more reasonable pattern of expenditure on behalf of children. I have alluded already to the fact that by redistributing the benefits of family allowances to the poorer families this money will be spent on more essential items for the children. Conversely, because of this redistribution, if wealthier families wish to purchase less essential and more luxury items for their children, obviously more of this kind of expenditure will have to come from their own resources and less from the Government. I think that this is quite proper. The family allowances plan obviously, therefore, has a dual benefit for the country: Firstly, it introduces a very real measure of social justice into our welfare system and, secondly, together with the impact of" personal income tax indexation, it will redirect resources to people in the community who have a much higher propensity to consume. This will appease those members of the Opposition who have constantly expressed concern that the Government supposedly has done nothing to stimulate the consumption component of aggregate demand as part of its economic strategy. 
The family allowances proposals will have a very significant influence on consumer expenditure. I was amazed that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  in his public comments on the Treasurer's statement last week, said that this Government had done nothing to encourage consumer spending. One does not have to be terribly well versed in the theories of consumer behaviour to realise that such a redistribution of income will stimulate this component of aggregate demand. A further advantage of the new system is that families will not have to wait until the end of the financial year to receive the benefits of family allowances, as occurred under the tax rebate system. In periods of high inflation rates this meant that the value of the deduction had already been eroded by inflation before it was received. Under the new system of increased weekly payments the money can be spent immediately at current prices, thereby increasing the real purchasing power of money disbursed by this means. 
I have been surprised by some of the criticisms made of the family allowances proposals. Some members of the public in Western Australia have questioned the wisdom of a government providing subsidies to those who wish to have children; some have suggested that it is a penalty against those who do not have children; some have said that it provides a positive incentive to have more children; and the most distasteful criticism of all comes from those who say that it gives encouragement to those irresponsible people who have many children but cannot afford them. Some of these criticisms, particularly the last one, are quite repugnant. They are ill-founded on the ground of logic and in my opinion they do not reflect a proper understanding of the principles behind the family allowances proposals. I will deal with each of these criticisms separately. To those who suggest that it is wrong for the Government to subsidise those who have children and to penalise those who do not, I simply say that in the aggregate there has not been any significant increase in government resources directed to helping families who have children, whether these resources be measured in the form of direct expenditure via child endowment payments or in the form of a loss to revenue through tax rebates. The total amount has simply been redistributed to poorer families. The cost of the family allowances scheme will be $ 1,020m in the first year, but $900m of this will be provided by the abolition of the rebate system. Only the remainder will be provided as a new direct subsidy to social welfare. 
The other criticisms I have heard- I repeat them- are that this scheme is an incentive to have more children and that in particular it gives encouragement to certain irresponsible people who have large families but cannot afford them. I suggest that even the maximum payment of $7 per child for the fifth and subsequent children could not be considered in any way as an incentive in terms of either the actual or the intangible costs of rearing a child. Secondly, I believe, and my Party believes, very strongly in the principle of a right to welfare benefits according to need and not according to any pompous and selfrighteous moral judgment as to the cause of a person's deprivation or disadvantaged position. Too often these kinds of criticisms are made by people who live in the best possible circumstances, having had no personal contact with those who suffer from poor education, alcholism, poverty, unemployment and so forth. They have no idea of the relationship between one's present circumstances and what went before. The casual relationship is not as clear as these pious critics might suggest. 
To the people who make these kinds of criticisms about poor people and large families, I say that it is morally questionable to suggest that the capacity or incentive to have children should be judged solely by pecuniary considerations. Of those who put these criticisms, I ask: Is it not true that those to whom $7 a week constitutes an incentive must be people of meagre means, otherwise it would not be an incentive to them? If this is so, is their need for assistance not even greater? Of course it is. To those who put forward these criticisms, I say that their argument means that to deny these poor people assistance is like shutting the gate after the horse has bolted and the children would suffer the consequences if adequate government assistance were not available to compensate them for their parents' amorous activities. Further, I ask: Who is entitled to say that certain people can have children and certain people cannot? No one, especially not governments, can assume such a God-like posture. Surely in a country such as Australia anyone who wants to have children is entitled to have them and governments must ensure that their policies are structured in such a way as to permit this. These new measures will help to ensure that this is the case, whereas the previous levels of child endowment in an indirect way more or less suggested that only the relatively well off could benefit from Government assistance, principally through the tax rebate system, if they had children. This presumptuous position of government has been taken away by these new measures. 
Surely this is what child endowment is all about. It is not an incentive for parents to have children. It is not an instrument used to implement a population policy. It is not designed to convey special benefits to the children of wealthy parents. It is not designed for the end benefit of parents at all. It is designed simply to ensure that when parents do decide to have children those children, irrespective of their parents' circumstances, are not denied the essentials necessary to give them the living standards that all children in a country such as Australia could reasonably expect. 
Our migrant families are a particular group in the community who will benefit very substantially from the introduction of the family allowances proposals. In the course of its inquiries the Henderson Commission recognised that during their first 2 years in Australia many non-British migrants have to make large personal sacrifices in order to earn sufficient income to keep out of poverty. It was revealed that some 12 per cent of non-British migrants- that is 18 000 adult income units- had incomes below the poverty line after housing costs. Although many migrant mothers might prefer to stay at home and attend to normal motherly duties, many of them are forced by their circumstances to join the work force in order to supplement the family income. I have seen many instances of this in my electorate, which has a very substantial migrant population. I have also seen the stress which this has imposed upon their family life. Often migrants get poor jobs and are among the first to become unemployed during recession periods such as have been experienced in Australia over the past few years. 
Under this new scheme payments will normally be made directly to the mother. In those families where there are a large number of children- these are normally the poorest people in the community, particularly the non-British migrant families- the allowance will provide substantial regular income. Although it will not be substantial enough to constitute a mother's wage, as advocated by a number of women's groups, it will at least allow those women including migrant women who are presently forced to work because of inadequate income, to choose more freely whether or not to work. There remains of course a marginal decision, but it at least introduces an element of choice which was not present before these measures were introduced. 
Honourable members opposite will make a lot of noise about the policy package introduced last week by the Treasurer. In fact, they have done so already. They will try to point out that some people will gain more than others, and that some people will not gain at all, while others in the community will be slightly worse off. This last allegation has been shown by the Treasurer to be quite false. One thing honourable members opposite will have to concede is that the poorest and the weakest members of the Australian community will have their circumstances immediately and substantially improved by the combined family allowances and tax indexation measures. It should also be remembered that the poor and the pensioners will not be affected by the introduction of a levy for health services. 
The Social Services Amendment Bill is an antipoverty measure giving immediate effect to one of the most important recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia. This Commission recommended that a proposal for an increase in child endowment was 'for immediate action'. This action has now been taken. In the conclusion to its report, the Commission, in drawing its many recommendations together into a practical program of reform set down guidelines, the first of which was: 
There must be a determined policy to give help first to the poorest people. 
The second guideline was: 
The main thrust of policy must be to provide income for them. 
This Bill is a first immediate step to achieve these goals. I therefore support the Social Services 
Amendment Bill as a major step by this Government to alleviate the circumstances of those most in need in the Australian community. 
I want to speak about the recent constitutional amendments imposed upon the people of Poland, which is a matter of great importance to many thousands of Polish people now living in Perth. I am very much aware of the great concern of the Polish community in Perth. It is a concern with which I have a great deal of sympathy and which should be shared by all members of this Parliament and all members of the Australian public who have a respect for the rights of the individual. 
The changes recently proposed to the constitution of Poland by the Polish United Workers Party- the Communist Party there- were severe and repressive. They included the official recognition of the leading role of the Polish United Workers Party in 'gradually transforming Poland into a state of all the people', with such a role to be written into the constitution. They did not want any other parties to exist. The amendment also included the incorporation into the constitution of an official eternal alliance with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or, to use the original wording, to make the constitution reflect the 'unshakable fraternal bond' with the Soviet Union. So much for an independent foreign affairs policy. This would represent-I use the words of our own Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)-  'a derogation from the fundamental principle of national sovereignty by any country anywhere'. Thirdly, Poland was to be declared officially as a socialist state. Fourthly, it was also proposed that citizens' rights should be linked with the performance of their civic duties- in other words, there were no civil rights. Their entitlement to civil freedoms would be dependent upon an arbitrary assessment by the state as to what one's personal civic performance should be. This represents an amazing contradiction of terms. 
These measures were designed totally to subjugate the Polish people and their country to the Soviet Union. I think it is to the everlasting credit of the Polish people and their courage that these measures were widely opposed. There was strong and widespread opposition and dissent to these measures. The lead in the opposition came from Cardinal Wyszynski and the clergy in general and spread through the intelligentsia, the students and, most significantly of all, private citizens. I pay tribute to those who had the courage of their convictions to speak out and oppose these amendments. As a result of these protestations, the original proposals of the Communist Party were modified and made less dogmatic. A number of 'particular formulations' underwent at least some changes in their final form. For example, the country still will be known as the Polish People's Republic rather than as the Polish People's Socialist Republic. However, the socialist nature of the state will be defined in the constitution. 
In addition, the role of the Polish United Workers Party has been modified so that the wording of the constitution provides only for its being a 'leading political force in the construction of socialism'. The original wording has been toned down but the essence remains the same. Regarding Poland's place in the socialist community, the revised wording of the constitution omits reference to an 'unshakable fraternal bond' with the Soviet Union and simply states that Poland 'strengthens its friendship and cooperation with the Soviet Union and other socialist states'. Again the essence remains the same. Although some minor liberalisation of citizens ' rights and duties was achieved, the basic points- that is, the socialist character of the state, the role of the Polish United Workers Party and the country's reliance on the Soviet Union for political support and defence- remain in force. The Government has by and large clothed the original objectives in more obscure language, hiding them behind a curtain of generalities. But the intent and the effect of the measures remain. The future of individual rights in Poland is now quite clearly suspect. 
I urge the Minister for Foreign Affairs officially to express this Government's concern for the people of Poland and the threat to their individual freedoms. I certainly endorse the resolutions to this effect which were passed by members of the Polish community of Perth at a public meeting at which I had the privilege of attending in Maylands on 14 March 1976. To these people I quote an often quoted phrase from their own language: Niech zyte Polska, which simply means: Let Poland live. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a matter of importance in my electorate. It relates to the activities of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation. The Corporation is going to establish its new Western Australian headquarters in the centre of the city of Perth at an estimated cost of some $ 10m. I am informed that only 2 firms have been invited to tender for this project, one a Sydney company and the other a Melbourne company, and that documents have in fact already been issued to these selected builders for pricing preparatory to further negotiations. These firms may have offices in Perth; I am not sure of that but I do not think that it is relevant to the principle that is involved in this matter. 
I wish to express in the strongest terms possible my concern at the fact that a Government instrumentality has denied this opportunity to Western Australian firms especially at a time when there is very little construction activity of the size of the Corporation 's proposed new headquarters currently in prospect from Perth 's building industry. This is an affront to the very capable local building industry and in my opinion it is impossible for the industry to look to the future with confidence if Western Australian companies are to be denied the right to compete for major Government works in their own State. A number of companies in Western Australia have the capability to embark on a project of this size and I am informed they would be able to submit tenders at very short notice. If local builders were engaged in this project both the administration and management costs would be retained in Western Australia as would any profits which might accrue from this venture. 
I do not want to speak at length on the economics of the matter. I would rather speak about the principle involved. I question firstly the principle of inviting selected firms to tender rather than permitting applications to be received from any companies in the industry from which a tender may be selected. Even if this is normal procedure- though I believe it is not without exception for large projects- I question the wisdom of a Government instrumentality following this principle. I also question the principle of confining the number of companies selected for the tender panel to three. I believe that this practice is often, although again not always, adopted for large projects. I feel that even this principle might be open to question when one considers the special position of a government instrumentality. 
In my opinion the Commonwealth Banking Corporation's tendering policies and those of similar government instrumentalities should be less secretive, should be standardised and should be seen to be implemented in a fair and responsible manner. They should be open to, and be able to withstand public scrutiny. Finally, although Western Australian owned companies may have been considered prior to tender invitations being forwarded by the Corporation, I believe the Corporation should, by virtue of being a government instrumentality, accept some obligation in this matter to invite tenders from Western Australian companies. I am not suggesting that it should select a Western Australian company to do the job but I do suggest that it should broaden its base of applicants and invite Western Australian companies to tender. 
Whilst I do not want to impose on the autonomy granted to the Corporation by the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959-73, I believe that this autonomy carries a special responsibility which I feel is not fully commensurate with the present tendering policies in view of the principles I have already mentioned. I believe that the Corporation should acknowledge that this autonomy carries with it an obligation to give proper and fair regard to the community it serves, in all aspects of its operations, not just its banking aspects. Matters such as this throw into question the entire issue of the independence of the Corporation. I ask the Government to use its powers under the Act to ensure that the Corporation reviews its policies in this regard. I conclude by saying that I regret very much the decision taken by the Corporation. I ask that the Government express its concern in this matter and do all it can to persuade the Corporation to review its decision. 
-I direct my question to the Attorney-General. Firstly, in what circumstances do State governments have the authority to issue off-shore exploration permits? Secondly, has the Western Australian Government been acting within the law by recently issuing such permits under the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act 1967 as a designated authority? Finally, is it a fact that the High Court decision on the Seas and Submerged Lands Act repudiated State sovereignty offshore? 
-I also claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  I was actively involved in the union at the University of Western Australia, which was called the Salaried Officers Association, of the University of Western Australia Union of Workers. I was a member in 1974 and 1975. During 1975 I was VicePresident of that Union and played a very active role in its affairs. I have a proper regard for the role of unions in our economic society. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many and which eligible organisations receive salary subsidies under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1) Is there a limit to the charges imposed upon residents in hostels which receive subsidies as eligible organisations under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
If so, what is this limit, and what steps are taken by the Department to ensure that such limits are observed. 
-I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate following the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones). 
-Oh, I will equal it. This gives me the opportunity to refute some of the fallacious criticisms and statistics which he used in relation to the Budget and the state of the economy. I want to speak about the economic management aspects of the Budget because essentially I think it was a Budget designed to attack the major problems of inflation and unemployment. We all know that both inflation and unemployment are old problems. It is the simultaneous occurrence of inflation and excessive unemployment which is relatively new. To understand the Budget strategy of the Government one requires an understanding of the nature of this problem and therefore I will speak briefly on this matter. 
Traditionally, and certainly according to fairly recent behaviour in economies of countries such as Australia, there was an element of selfcorrection between unemployment and inflation, but this trade-off no longer exists. The incompatibility between the two relied on price and wage flexibility. This was relevant in a different age when the structure of the economy and the attitudes of the major decision makers from both labour and capital were very different from what they are today. Inflation and unemployment no longer can be seen as alternatives but as being entirely interdependent. There has at least been some consensus, both overseas and within Australia, in establishing a connection between inflation and unemployment which supports this Government's Budget strategy. This connection was even recognised last year by the last Labor Treasurer when he brought down the final Budget of the Australian Labor Party. It certainly has been endorsed more recently by more reputable institutions and economists. The Reserve Bank of Australia stated in its annual report which it handed down last month: 
For the community to countenance the persistence of inflation would be to hinder the growth of economic activity and prejudice national living standards. 
The Secretary of the Treasury in the United States of America also agrees with this strategy. It should be remembered that the USA has successfully extricated itself from an economic position similar to ours. In addition, the communique from the recent meeting of the ministerial council of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development also endorsed this approach by the Government. Therefore the strategy of the Government, to combat inflation as a prerequisite for economic growth, has been widely endorsed. But to understand the Government's policies and the futility of the Opposition's criticism of the economic aspects of the 
Budget one requires a close understanding of the causes of inflation and, in particular, how this problem might be tackled when it is accompanied by high unemployment. 
We hear the same causes being put forward often enough in relation to inflationary situations throughout the world. They usually include an over rapid increase in government expenditure, excessive wage demands, weakening of monetary discipline, monopolistic practices and increased international speculative capital flows. A number of other reasons are often put forward. In regard to Australia at least three of these causes have been significant. Notwithstanding that, I think it is essential to realise that all those factors which I have mentioned are more the symptoms of inflation than the causes. They are certainly closely related to inflation. I submit that more basic forces reside within the structure of our economy which allow these factors to exert their influence. Of these fundamental forces, two stand out in my mind. Firstly, community expectations of government have increased substantially in recent years. This is a problem only when the Government's response bears no relationship to the nation's resource capacity to meet these expectations. This has been Australia's recent experience. Secondly this factor, when it is combined with the long-term changes to the structure of the economy, has produced the present economic dilemma. This structural factor is related to what I mentioned earlier about the disappearance of the classical incompatibilities between inflation and unemployment. No longer is the economy a fluid structure in which traditional economic relationships and responses can be automatically predicted. The economy is now more rigid. There are heavy concentrations of labour and capital. These developments have meant that well organised and powerful economic groups now have sufficient strength to pursue their own ends. Whether it is in accord with their relative bargaining position at any point in time- although I concede that this should not always be a consideration, particularly if the wages share of national income is too low- they can pursue their own ends, but whether it is in the national interests as put forward by the government of the day is another matter. It is this kind of fundamental structural change and the rigidities it has imposed on the economy which led to the disastrous economic events of 1974 from which we are now trying to recover. For example, in 1974, at a time of record unemployment, average weekly earnings increased by 28 per cent and consumer prices by 16 per cent. Therefore, real wages rose by some 10 per cent. 
This occurred in a year in which average productivity fell as output contracted and when the gross operating surpluses of companies, as a percentage of gross domestic product, were at their lowest ever level of 10.6 per cent. This kind of imbalance, which was partially institutionalised by full wage indexation, led to further increases in both unemployment and inflation. With this sorry background in mind the Reserve Bank, in its annual report, suggested quite independently an economic management strategy for present circumstances which is totally in accord with what this Government has been doing since it took office. I quote from the report: 
The story of economic management is essentially the story of measures to redress imbalances and to return the Australian economic framework to a condition from which it could resume normal growth and development. 
To implement such a strategy the Reserve Bank stated that the need is for the main arms of stabilisation policy- that is, wages policy, monetary policy and fiscal policy- to keep moving firmly towards restraint so that the subsidence of inflation in Australia does not lag long after that of other countries. Ten or 15 years ago to contemplate such measures of restraint at a time of high unemployment would have been considered contrary to all conventional economic wisdom. What the Labor Party does not seem to realise in its constant criticism of this Government is that conventional economic policies are no longer relevant. We no longer have a conventional economic problem. It is a new problem, but the Opposition cannot and will not accept this. 
As this is meant to be a debate, I take time to answer some of the criticisms of the economic management aspects of the Budget which have been put by members opposite. Their criticisms have suggested that they still do not fully understand the present economic problem facing policy makers. Their spokesmen have not as yet offered any positive alternatives to the Government's approach. Let me take, for example, the criticism of the Government's recognition of the need to exercise restraint in wages policy. This criticism does not recognise the fact that structural factors have meant that money wages in both Australia and overseas have, in recent years, developed a downside rigidity. Money wage increases have become totally unrelated to productivity and when combined with declining levels of economic activity have increased inflation, and therefore have made the solving of the unemployment question a more intractable problem through both its domestic influence on returns to other factors of production and through its influence on the internal cost structure of Australia in relation to our trading partners. Even the Reserve Bank said that the growth in real wages in 1974 crammed into 12 months the normal trend growth of real wages accruing in about 3 years. 
There is nothing wrong in this in certain circumstances, but when this money wage rigidity is combined with falling productivity, and contracting total output, there is an inevitable impact on unemployment. To criticise the Government on the grounds that there will be a reduction in real wages and that this will have an adverse effect on consumption expenditure ignores some very important considerations. It also ignores the fact that in 1974 the Labor Government recommended a reduction in real wages by submitting to the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission that it should grant an indexed but flat rate increase derived by the application of the movement in consumer price index to the minimum wage. 
Budget Statement No. 2 quite properly draws a distinction between award wages and real earnings both on average and in aggregate. To place total emphasis on award wages, as determined by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, and to ignore other earnings components is to distort the key issue in this area. Award wages are largely autonomous and do not reflect the level of economic activity. They reflect what have recently become independent variables in the system, such as price increases, and they certainly do not represent productivity changes. 
The significance of over award increments and overtime payments which are more closely related to the level of economic activity has been ignored by the Opposition. There are indications already that these components of earnings are strengthening and will help offset the influence of partial indexation of award wages. It should also be remembered that with partial indexation, there is no decline in the real value of award wages for the low income earners. It is also important to realise, particularly with the projected gross non-farm product increase of 4 per cent, that award and over award payments are not totally independent. Any reduction in award wages certainly leads to increased pressure for non-award payments. 
With these factors taken into account, together with the smaller projected increase in the consumer price index, I think it is reasonable to assume that real average earnings per employed person will not decline in the coming year. With the projected work force growth, of course aggregate real earnings will also increase. This is also ignored by the Opposition. It was ignored by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  The Opposition has ignored the fact that this Government has halted the decline in employment. Between the end of 197S and July 1976, the number of people unemployed as a percentage of the work force has remained the same. It is still far too high, but it must stop rising before it can begin to fall. 
Budget Statement No. 2 also provides an answer to the Opposition criticism relating to the impact of disposable family incomes on consumption expenditure. In view of the combined impact of personal income tax indexation, increased pension and other welfare benefits, and in particular the effect of the family allowances scheme. I think it could at least be stated that real disposable household incomes will not decline in the year ahead. The family allowances program, after allowing for the abolition of the tax rebates for children, will provide a net income gain for low income families which have a relatively high propensity to consume, as do pensioners, who with full and automatic indexation are assured of having their incomes increased proportionately by at least as much, and probably more, than the general working population. 
Even if all those assumptions were not true, I think it is quite incorrect to assume that any decline in real wages would automatically lead to a reduction in consumption expenditure. To suggest that an automatic relationship exists between these 2 factors is to ignore the lessons of the recent past. For example, between the March and December quarters in 1974, male award wages rose by 16 per cent but consumption increased by less than 1 per cent. So, this kind of argument which is put forward by the Opposition does not stand up to scrutiny. 
The Budget also has been the subject of a quite amazing statement by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  that unemployment will be created deliberately by this Government as part of the strategy to defeat inflation. That is an argument without logic and it completely ignores the economic experience of Australia under his own Government. As I said earlier, structural rigidities which have emerged in many Western economies have meant that one no longer can impart a particular stimulus in order to extract a particular response. Traditional relationships have changed. To suggest, as the Leader of the Opposition does, that there is a trade-off between inflation and unemployment ignores this basic premise. The two are not alternatives; one is related to the other. To suggest otherwise is to revert to the economics of the 1960s. I well remember Pierre-Paul Schweitzer, the former Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund, constantly stating that international instability of major currencies in the 1960s resulted from the fact that all countries were seeking full employment, which automatically led to inflation which in turn automatically led to balance of payments difficulties. This same kind of relationship existed in Australia in the early 1960s; but it does not exist any longer, because of the factors which I mentioned earlier. The Opposition, in suggesting that we are creating unemployment to combat inflation, is ignoring the lessons of its own Administration when inflation and unemployment coexisted at record levels- not as alternatives, but as totally related factors. Even the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  recognised this in his Budget Speech last year. He realised that Keynes no longer was relevant. He recognised the problem but did nothing about it. Now the Leader of the Opposition has changed his Party's attitude again, and again he is wrong. 
The Opposition also has questioned the Government's public sector expenditure cuts. In his reply to the Budget the Leader of the Opposition stated that stagnation would result from the Government 's cutting public sector spending. He advocated more government spending as a means of solving the unemployment problems. In the early 1960s he may have been correct, for then high unemployment was accompanied by low rates of inflation and could be remedied without putting pressure on prices. That was the age when prices reflected more fundamental values, such as demand and resource utilisation. But to suggest this now obviously is not appropriate. The past 3 years has shown that massive public sector expenditure as part of economic strategy does not reduce unemployment. Under the Labor Government the highest ever rates of increase in government spending occurred at the same time as record unemployment. The Reserve Bank also has supported the Government's strategy in this area. So much for the quality of the Opposition's criticism in that regard. 
I also refer to the Opposition's claim that we have increased pay-as-you-earn taxation. This completely distorts the true position of the individual taxpayer. Firstly, the increased receipts will be due partly to an increased number of people becoming employed. Secondly, part of this receipts figure contained in Budget Statement No. 4 is due to the loss of tax rebates for children, but this has been more than countered by the increased transfer payment to families through the family allowances scheme. Thirdly, it represents the Medibank levy- a concept which the Labor Party supported, although it would have financed the remainder of the Medibank scheme from a Consolidated Revenue swollen by inflationary income tax receipts. Fourthly, the Opposition ignores the fact that taxpayers are being saved $ 1,050m by the introduction of full personal income tax indexation which we all would have paid from our own pockets if Labor was still in power. Finally, the Opposition ignores the fact that in this Budget there will be no increases in major indirect taxes, although in the 3 years 1973-74 to 1975-76 Labor increased taxes in this area by more than $ 1000m. 
In conclusion, I simply say that the Government in this Budget has acted responsibly. It has taken hard decisions, but it has ensured that the disadvantaged groups in society will not suffer. While the rate of increase in government expenditure has been cut, government expenditure on social security and welfare has increased by 23 per cent. The family allowances scheme has provided a massive redistribution of income from the wealthier families to the poorest families in the country. This Government has been the first in Australia 's history to introduce fully automatic adjustments to the pension so that pensioners will no longer be subjected to the possible abuses of political expediency. There has been a very substantial increase in the provision of assistance to handicapped people. In the next 3 years the Government will provide $225m under the aged and disabled persons accommodation program. Over the next 3 years approximately 15 000 beds will be provided under this program. This is almost 25 per cent of the total number of beds provided in the previous 22 years. 
I have pleasure in supporting a Budget which is both responsible from an economic management point of view and which ensures that disadvantaged sections of the community will have their circumstances improved. In supporting the Bill I reject the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Have the results of the 1974-75 Household Expenditure Survey revealed a significant variation in household spending habits from the weightings used in the present consumer price index? 
If so, is the consumer price index to be re-weighted in view of the findings of the Survey? 
If so, when does he expect the re-structured index to come into use? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many and which local government authorities in (a) Western Australia and (b) Australia receive assistance in the form of grants, salary subsidies, accommodation or meal subsidies under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the rate of the (a) meal subsidy and (b) accommodation subsidy provided to eligible organisations under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
) When were these rates last adjusted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Have the results of the 1974-75 Household Expenditure Survey revealed a significant difference in the expenditure pattern of age-pensioners between the age of 65 and 69 years, as against the expenditure patterns of the community at large. 
Did the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia suggest that such a difference did, in fact, exist. 
If so, does the Minister intend to construct and use a separately weighted Consumer Price Index, relevant to the expenditure patterns of pensioners, as the basis for regularly adjusting the age pension for consumer price increases. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many homeless men and women are there in Western Australia who may qualify for assistance under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. 
How many of these people live within the Electoral Division of Perth. 
How often is a census taken by the Department, or by the Bureau of Statistics, to ascertain the number of people who may be classified as homeless. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the results of the 1974-75 Household Expenditure Survey revealed a significant difference in the expenditure patterns of migrant families as against the expenditure patterns of the community at large. 
Do the results of the survey indicate that recently arrived migrant families face budgetary problems which reflect particular hardships associated with settling in Australia. If so, what are these problems, and what action is proposed by the Government. 
-In dealing with the estimates for the Department of Social Security I would like to spend some time discussing the problems of lone fathers in Australia. Lone fathers and their children have been discriminated against in welfare legislation for many years by all governments. It has not been a wilful omission; rather has it been caused through the sheer inertia of long-held customs, prejudices and attitudes. One of these prejudices has been a broad social stigma attached to single parent families. This was well stated in the submission to the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty by the South Australian Parents without Partners Organisation. But in relation to lone fathers these broad prejudices have been particularised and are almost sexist in thenimpact. For example, the opening sentence of Budget Statement No. 3, in introducing the outlays for the Department of Social Security, states: 
The Australian Social Security System is intended to protect people from economic hardship caused by events such as loss of earnings through age, invalidity, sickness, unemployment or the loss or absence of a supporting male as a result of death, desertion or long-term separation. 
The last part of that sentence is very significant. It does not recognise the position of families where the mother is lost from the family. This prejudice is reflected in the way welfare benefits are provided automatically for fatherless families but not for motherless families. 
There is no pension automatically available for men comparable to a widow's pension or a supporting mother's benefit, yet the family's needs are exactly the same. Lone fathers are therefore forced to work and have less chance of keeping the family together. This is a very serious anomaly which is against the spirit of one of the main principles of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry, that is the principle of a right to income according to need and not according to any moral judgment as to the cause of such needy circumstances. The principle supports the standardisation of benefits and pensions between people in similar or like circumstances. Discrimination based on the sex of the parent requiring assistance is against the spirit of this fundamental and quite proper principle. There should simply be a sole parent allowance without reference to either mother or father. 
The lone father is placed in a very difficult position, both financially and emotionally. On the financial side, recent developments have enabled lone fathers to receive special benefits on the grounds of hardship. But this does not offer the security of a pension, nor does it offer the opportunity for lone fathers to work limited hours and receive a part pension, as lone mothers are able to do. Further, the special benefit allowances cut out when the lone father's children start school. This is not the case with supporting mothers. The supporting father does not receive supplementary assistance, nor does he receive travel and telephone concessions. Supporting mothers are entitled to these benefits under certain conditions. The lone father is financially discriminated against, and I agree with the proposition that if the community is prepared to take the responsibility of breadwinner for a single mother, it should also take responsibility for the provision of a substitute mother. 
Another aspect of the lone father's income problem is that because he has no automatic pension entitlement he has almost no choice as to whether or not he works. He must work and this creates further expensive problems for him due to the shortage of child care facilities for preschool, after school and holiday care. Further, a special benefit is disbursed under the same restrictive conditions as sickness and unemployment benefits. Professor Henderson's research has shown that a very significant percentage of motherless families had incomes below the poverty line. The financial problems of the single father include the payment of child minding fees during the day for the very young and baby sitting fees at night. The single father seldom has the chance to shop for bargains, to cook economically or to supplement his income with a second job. It is essential that the lone father be given a pension in order that he has a greater option to work or not to work so that he can get by with part time work which will allow him to spend more time at home with his children. This, of course, is very important. 
Recently in Perth I asked a social worker of the Department of Social Security to provide case study reports on 2 lone fathers who had visited me. The reports emphasised the problems created by the father not being home after school or by pre-school children being left totally in the hands of a mother substitute. Who can judge the emotional impact on a young child who has lost his or her mother? A 4-year old son of a lone father who came to see me recently and who was the subject of one of these case studies has been constantly ill since birth. This 4-year old boy has had 45 mother substitutes to care for him. Most of these housekeepers are motivated by money and not by compassion. What happens to a 4-year old child who experiences this kind of constant change of significant persons in his or her life? What happens to a 14-year old girlalso the subject of one of these case studies- who is required to look after her younger brothers and sisters after school, to prepare meals and to do many of the chores which many adult females can barely cope with? These are terrible problems. The father must be given an option to spend more time at home in order to keep his family together and to be able to provide adequately from part time work only. An automatic pension would help in this regard. But money will not solve all the problems, although it is an important first step. 
Lone fathers in Australia require more child minding facilities, with such faculties having more flexible hours. More domiciliary assistance is required because fathers are not equipped for a sudden role transition- the buying of clothes for children, cooking, house cleaning, clothes mending, and weekly shopping for the house. These are all tasks foreign to him, quite apart from the emotional problem a lone father has in being required to relate to his children in a way which he has never done before. Many of the housekeepers are most unsuited to the sensitive role of motherhood, and because the fathers have little income they cannot afford to employ the most suitable people. The sick 4-year old boy, to whom I referred earlier, who has had 45 different mother substitutes, was once administered a lethal dose of tranquilizers by one of these housekeepers. One can imagine the pressures that this boy's father faces when he has to go to work and leave his child in the care of others. 
I suggest that an organised registered housekeeper service is required to ensure good service and to facilitate the location of suitably qualified housekeepers when they are needed. Lone fathers are often very poor and cannot afford their own transport They need mobility to take their children to child minding centres and to places that children normally want to visit. I suggest that the Government investigate the possibility of providing additional tax concessions for people in these circumstances, not only for housekeeping fees and child minding fees but also for motor vehicle insurance and registration fees. 
I have been stressing the financial plight of lone fathers and their children. I am not qualified to comment on the impact of their circumstances on their emotional and psychological conditions. This has been well documented elsewhere. But it is a fact that these fathers are socially ostracised. They are isolated, by force of circumstances, from the rest of society. There is always enormous pressure on them, and the saddest aspect of all is that children raised in these circumstances must suffer irreparable emotional and psychological harm. These less tangible problems are probably the most significant and, sadly, might even be impossible to solve. But there is no question that improved income support, improved domiciliary care, improved child minding facilities and a more equitable disbursement of welfare funds between lone fathers and lone mothers would go a long way towards relieving some of the pressures on these families. I know that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator  Giulfoyle) is  aware  of  this problem and is very concerned about these families. I implore the Government to take decisive action in this area of welfare as soon as possible. 
In conclusion, I would like to depart from the normal practice of many members in this chamber and pay tribute to some of the public servants in the Department of Social Security in Perth. Because I work in a capital city electorate I have many constituents with problems in the area of social welfare. Many of my representations go to the Minister for Social Security or the office of her Department located in Perth. Officers of that Department have always been most courteous and most helpful. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-My grievance is that no government in Australia has ever properly investigated the possibility of introducing worker participation schemes into Australia. During the debate on the Budget several weeks ago I suggested to the House that the present economic problems confronting Australia were much deeper than many people seemed to realise. I stated that Australia's problems basically stemmed from deep-seated structural problems of both an economic and social nature. The historical development of large countervailing concentrations of power, of both labour and capital, the way these powers were being used and the developing political and social bitterness which seems to be hardening between different groups of Australians, is in my opinion the very basis of our present problems. These fundamental, social, political and economic divisions are tearing Australian society apart. In the process they are destroying the very foundation of our economy. 
If this is the case, and I believe it is, we must, in attempting to solve Australia's present economic and social problems, lift our horizons. I believe many of us cannot see the wood for the trees. We are bound up in conventional economic problems and solutions, fine tuning by monetary, fiscal, wage and industrial relations policy adjustments. But I think that all of us, on both sides of the House, might be missing the major point. Should we not be looking at ways and means of solving the present structural divisiveness, which, in the long term, if allowed to go unchecked will bring this country to its knees and render all these conventional short term measures totally useless. I suggest to the House, and particularly to the Government, that a fullscale inquiry be held in order to assess whether some kind of employee share ownership scheme can be effectively implemented in this country. As long as workers and management have very divergent views of their roles in society the inevitable political, social and economic disruption will work against the best long term interests of this country. 
We must try to devise a way in which both workers and management can establish a compatibility of interests, a convergence of views, and thereby work towards the same goals and further the best interests of everyone involved. Unless we do this the social divisions in Australia will continue to provide the basis for conflict. Therefore, I want the government to investigate the relevance of worker participation schemes to the Australian experience. One such possibility might by Kelso's employee share ownership plan which is a technique for financing employees into acquiring ownership in their company at no cost to themselves and creating a new source of corporate equity.  His  plan has been supported by legislation in the United States Congress. It has gained widespread acceptance by both unions and business. Shann Turnbull has suggested that in Australia a Kelso plan with some modifications could be established. At this stage I do not want to become wedded to any one plan. I simply speak about the principle of worker participation schemes. I hope that a government inquiry will look at the details of alternative proposals. 
A scheme such as that proposed by Kelso provides for a second income for wage earners so that employees not only rely on wages income but also on income derived from sharing the ownership of the productive assets of the country, in particular by having a share in the capital of the company which employs them. Such schemes would provide a true compatibility of interests between labour and capital. They would help avoid the class conflicts which are at the very basis of Australia's present economic and social problems. They would achieve this by spreading the vast natural wealth of this country over all individuals, irrespective of their economic status by sharing more equitably the productive assets of the nation. This is the greatest benefit of all participatory schemes. It helps to unite otherwise diverse groups which can work towards common goals for the benefit of all people of the country. 
I shall relate the experience of a large company in Western Australia which has adopted a worker ownership scheme. The company is called Hart of the West Limited. It has adopted a scheme which is different from that suggested by both Kelso and Turnbull. In the early 1970s the company of S. W. Hart and Co. Pty Ltd was the subject of a number of takeovers. By late 1973 the staff of the company were becoming confused and frustrated with the succession of new owners. As a result of their dissatisfaction the staff responded in a unique way. It banded together to buy the company at a cost of some $1,150,000. This takeover of S. W. Hart and Co. by its employees made history in Australia as it was the first time that a company of this size and diversity had been taken over from within. This was achieved by forming a public company called Hart of the West Limited. It issued a prospectus to all employees of S. W. Hart and Co. offering them a total of 300 000 $ 1 fully paid shares which was a significant part of the total capital funding of the company. 
More than $2 10,000 were subscribed by more than two thirds of the employees, from the cleaner to the managing director. Of the onethird of employees not taking up shares, nearly all were outside site workers. The maximum number of shares available to each person was 10 000. There was no compulsion to acquire shares. To those who suggest that the average worker is not interested in management problems it should be made clear that he need do no more than own shares unless he wants to extend his interest to management matters. This scheme of ownership is different in detail, but not in principle, from those proposed by Kelso and others, inasmuch as no ownership trust need be established. One simply puts one's money on the line. Other financing arrangements could, of course, be made if necessary. The composition of the board of management also provides for employees being given very effective representation on the board. 
It is significant that over the past 3 years, at a time of considerable industrial problems in the metal trades industry, there have been no strikes by the company's employees. Only 80 manhours have been lost over disputes but these were by agreement with the company. The workers did not want to stop working but it was agreed that the company should be represented at disputation meetings. Of even greater significance is the profit performance of the company. In the first 6 months of operation, profits to 30 June 1974 were $20,000. One year later profits rose to $404,000. In the year to 30 June 1976 the published net profit was $533,000. This is an incredible performance. I asked the managing director how this transformation had taken place. He simply replied that everyone worked hard. Surely there is a lesson here for all policy makers. This identity of interests which stems from substantial worker ownership might provide a long term answer to Australia's problems. There have been no strikes, staff relationships are very good and very informal and the staff is well provided for. All employees have an interest in their company making a profit because in the case I have mentioned this has led, for the workers, to the introduction of a staff superannuation scheme, Christmas bonuses, better staff facilities and of course higher incomes derived from increased productivity and from the increased dividends they receive on the shares they own as a result of the increased profits for which they are largely responsible. 
I pay tribute to this company and its employees. I pay a tribute to the principle of employee share ownership. If the recent performance of this company were transposed to the national economic scene, Australia's economic problems, and many of her social and political problems, would be solved in the longer term and in the best interests of all Australians. We are not now confronted with just a transitory cyclical economic problem. It is a long term structural economic and social problem which requires a response designed to attack these problems. I am not saying that share ownership schemes are the answer. They may not be. But Australia, in its present state, cannot afford to ignore the possibilities which might be inherent in such schemes. I simply call on the Government to undertake a full scale inquiry into whether or not such schemes can be introduced in Australia, and if so, how. 
In the last few days there has been some talk by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of the need for employees to play a greater role in management matters. I think that such a proposition is good. It is a step in the right direction but it is not enough. Additional incentives are required. Nothing could provide a greater incentive than ownership participation to complement management participation. I think that this Government must investigate the possibilities inherent in such a scheme. 
-by leave-As a member of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs, I am sorry that I have only two or three minutes in which to discuss this very important matter. I think that the human tragedy that has been shown to result from the excessive use of alcohol in many Aboriginal communities has been well documented in this report. I have seen children of the age of 8 or 9 years take to alcohol in a big way. Children of that age are dying from petrol sniffing. When entire Aboriginal communities have a binge- this happens in some settlements at least once a week- there is mass violence between the different tribes located in those settlements. Children are awake all night and have to sleep during the day while their parents are hung over. They cannot go to school because they are too tired. Household money is often spent almost entirely on alcohol and the women and children have to go without food. Health standards have accordingly dropped in an alarming way. They are not isolated events. They are happening in Aboriginal communities throughout Australia. Certainly they are happening with the assistance of a number of Europeans who are exploiting this situation to their own pecuniary advantage. 
As the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  stated, this is a cosmetic report. It will meet the short term needs of these people. I urge the Government to give very prompt consideration to the recommendations contained in this report. This report deals with something which is more the symptom than the cause of the problems of the Aborigines. The final report of the Committee will have to deal with the more basic forces which have led to this problem arising, that is, the disintegration of the traditional way of life of Aborigines. We will have to question some of the very basic forces which have led to the social and cultural disintegration of the Aboriginal identity and which seem to be a major cause of the alcohol problem. 
We have to ask ourselves: What is the rationale behind the large isolated settlement as a form of social organisation which is really not appropriate to that to which the Aboriginal communities are accustomed? What is the rationale behind providing individuals and communities with large amounts of cash? They are not familiar with this medium of exchange. They do not have long term financial commitments. Their money is basically spent on current consumption and very largely on alcohol. Often they do not know how much they get, when they should get it and why they get it. I think that this matter has to be re-examined in some detail. What is the rationale behind requiring them to work? Where is there meaningful employment in settlements located in the middle of deserts once the necessary houses have been built? It is not part of their ethos. I remind the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  that there is evidence to suggest that the provision of work opportunities will not of itself mean that these opportunities are always taken up. 
What is the rationale behind the councils we have established? We have imposed our own European systems of authority on these communities and we have plenty of evidence to show that in many cases settlements are better off when the councils do not exist. What is the rationale behind applying European law and European standards to alcoholism? Being drunk is not a social disgrace to the Aboriginal in the same way as it is to Europeans. It is just that it has never been a form of social animation to them. Is not customary law more likely to be more useful in helping them to solve their problems? Those are the basic features that we will have to try to resolve in the final report. It is going to be a very difficult task, but unless we tackle these matters assiduously we are not going to solve the symptom of these problems, that is, the excessive use of alcohol. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Who, at present, are the members of the Western Australian Advisory Board of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
When does the term of office of each member expire. 
-This Bill, which gives effect to the budgetary initiatives in the welfare field, continues the principle which this Government has enunciated since taking office, that is, that welfare should be based on need. That is the whole rationale behind the family allowances scheme. Members of the Opposition often accuse this Government- indeed all Liberal-Country Party governments- of neglecting the welfare aspects of governmental responsibility. They have done it again today. History proves otherwise. 
I refer all honourable members to the results of a recent study by the World Bank, which investigated and compared the equality of income distribution of many countries throughout the world. The statistics at present are incomplete and include data for only 81 of the 142 member countries of the United Nations. Nevertheless, the data which has been gathered around the world and which is in the process of being assessed by the World Bank shows Australia to have the most equal distribution of income of any comparable country in the world. It is very interesting to note that there is greater equality of income distribution in Australia than there is in most of the communist countries in Eastern Europe, and they are countries where there have been great sacrifices of individual liberties in pursuit of an egalitarianism which cannot be matched by that achieved in a democratic system such as our own. Other nations which are often thought of as having a reputation for income equality, such as Denmark and Sweden, in fact have their income distributed much less equally than it is distributed in Australia. 
It is very significant that the World Bank figures are dated as at 1967-68. In other words, this achievement was not the result of government by Australian Labor Party governments; it was the product of 1 8 years of successive LiberalCountry Party governments. This does not mean that the ideal welfare goal has yet been achieved. That goal is still before us. In a world of great poverty and great income inequality Australia's achievement, although great, is set against poor comparisons and praise of income equality is of no comfort to those who still live in poverty in this country. For that reason, I support the thrust of this Government's policy to implement its welfare programs according to a 'needs' rather than a 'rights' basis. 
Despite what the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has said, I think the family allowances scheme is a prime example of this approach. I believe that the family allowances scheme, which was introduced earlier this year, provides for the most massive redistribution of income in our recent welfare history. This scheme, which is incorporated in the Budget allocations, is perhaps the most significant antipoverty proposal put forward by Professor Henderson in his Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia. I say that because the Henderson Commission's report clearly showed that the greatest incidence of poverty in Australia occurred in large families whose breadwinners were earning the minimum wage or a little more. The family allowances will help greatly to alleviate the circumstances of these people. 
With regard to this Bill, I am very pleased that at last a government has decided to make pension increases automatic. This was promised by the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  in his election policy speech in 1972. It was reiterated by the then Leader of the Opposition in the federal election campaign of 1974. In October 1975, the Liberal and National Country Parties' welfare policy stated the need for 'protecting benefits from erosion by inflation through automatically adjusting benefit levels every 6 months, according to movements in the consumer price index'. This Government has now implemented those promises. I have already spoken at length in an earlier debate on the pros and cons of adjusting the pension to movements in the consumer price index and I will not elaborate further on this matter. At this stage I wish simply to state that by making these adjustments automatically the Government has provided an element of security to the pensioner which has been lacking in the past. No longer will pensioners have to rely on  ad hoc,  irregular changes to their income which have often in the past been dictated solely by political expediency. It should also be stated that should the unlikely position ever be reached where there was a decrease in the CPI there would not be a decrease in the pension. So all future adjustments will be not only automatic but also positive. 
There are 2 other points that I would like to make in this regard. I stated in an earlier debate on social services that consideration should be given to finding a price index of more relevance to pensioners than the present consumer price index. The consumer price index is a quarterly measure of variations in retail prices for goods and services representing a high proportion of the expenditure of wage earner households. These wage earners, according to the Henderson Commission, are much better off than pensioners. Their pattern of expenditure is not the same. Professor Henderson stated that a rise in food prices, for instance, would be much more serious for the pensioner than its weighting in the 
CPI would indicate. I was therefore disappointed to learn, in answer to a question that I placed on notice, that the recently published preliminary results of the 1974-75 household expenditure survey, which was undertaken by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, did not contain separate expenditure details relating to age pensioners between the ages of 65 and 69 years. I ask the responsible Minister to investigate the possibilities of collecting more specific information in future surveys, particularly with regard to the pensioners in this age group for whom the pension is either the sole or the major source of income. 
The other matter that I wish to mention in this regard is that the concept of making automatic adjustments of pensions according to movements in the consumer price index should not prevent the Government from periodically reviewing the adequacy of the base level of the pension. I think it is important to preserve the real value of pensions against inflation, as we are now doing, but it is equally important to assess what is the appropriate level to be preserved. As real community living standards improve over the longer term it will be necessary to adjust the real level of the pension at regular intervals in order to ensure that pensioners enjoy with the rest of the community the fruits of increased productivity and economic growth. 
There is another matter related to pensions which is of great importance to many of my constituents. Like the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  I have had many pensioners in my electorate approach me and complain that on the income they received in 1975-76 they have been required to pay taxes for the first time and that in some cases they are liable for quite sizable lump sums, which they are naturally finding very difficult to pay. I would also like to address myself to this problem. I have undertaken some preliminary examination of this matter and I have asked the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  to look at the question. But one thing has become clear. This question of pensioner tax liability is one of the lesser known and unfortunate aspects of the previous Labor Government's welfare policy. The  President  of the Australian Pensioners League in Western Australia was quoted recently in the Press as having said: 
We think the taxing of the old age pension in any shape or form is the lowest form of legislation that could ever be possibly conceived. 
It was the Labor Government which introduced the taxation of pensions. No doubt this, together with its decision to abolish the age allowance, was related to its intended moves to abolish the means test. However, the failure fully to implement this latter aspect of its package, together with the indexing of pensions and many superannuation payments to pensioners, has meant that many pensioners have been lifted over the income taxation threshold. In the absence of an upward movement in the base tax rate many pensioners are now liable for tax payments for the first time. 
The various measures taken by the Labor Government in this area, to which I have referred, have impacted on the pensioner in an indiscriminate way and presently are causing much hardship to many pensioners. There is no doubt that the Labor Government was responsible for this hardship. The honourable member for Oxley asked why this Government has not done something about it. He was the Treasurer of this country for some time but he did nothing about it. He introduced it but when he found out what it was doing, he did nothing. Anyway, it is of little consequence to the affected pensioners how the blame is apportioned. I am pleased that the Government is now looking at this problem and I hope the position will be rectified in the near future. I support this Bill and I totally reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. 
The amendment was before us before we reached the Committee stage. I refer to it because of the matters raised in the Opposition's amendment and about which the Opposition did nothing while it was in office. Its performance was disgraceful. 
I too would like to associate myself with the comments made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan).  In response to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  I say firstly that we should not simply base our speeches on pragmatism. Surely we are entitled to discuss history and principles. If we cannot achieve anything- I am not suggesting that we will by this exercise this evening- surely we are entitled to our last recourse which is that of freedom of speech in the Parliament. The Hungarians do not have that. 
In my electorate of Perth there are many ethnic groups and many people who come from the captive nations of the world. I have close relations with the people in my electorate from the Baltic States, the Ukraine, Poland, Hungary and other similarly placed countries. I was fortunate early in the year to be able to speak and express my concern at the recent constitutional amendments in Poland and to applaud the efforts of Cardinal Mindszenty and the people of Poland who showed great courage in standing up in public and expressing their concern at the continuing decline of their freedoms in Poland. As has already been mentioned, almost 20 years ago to the day hundreds of thousands of Hungarians protested about the lack of freedom in their country and demanded the release of the late Cardinal Mindszenty. We all know what happened. 
It is well recorded as one of the blackest days in recent history, a day which unfortunately has been often repeated subsequently by communist regimes throughout the world. The events are well recorded. In the suppression which followed these protests more than 250 000 Hungarians fled to other countries. As the honourable member for Riverina said, some 35 000 came to Australia. I was very young at that time and the events did not make much impact on me, although I recall quite vividly the protest writings on the subways and other public places around Perth. Subsequently, the events have had a great impact on me. Many of these people are now in my electorate. Many of them now have adult offspring. I have become a personal friend of many of these people. I know of their personal tragedies. 
Communist suppression has left a very deep scar on them, a scar which they have had to bear for many years. The bare facts  of the period read badly enough. I refer to the futile attempts of successive leaders in the early 1950s who were controlled and often summarily dismissed from office by the regime in Moscow; the great student protest in Budapest on 23 October 1956 with the police firing into the crowds; the Army joining the revolutionaries; the exodus of Soviet troops from the capital to the frontiers and the triumphant return of Cardinal Mindszenty to the palace. Then followed the withdrawal of Hungary from the Warsaw pact and, finally, the dreaded return of Soviet tanks and troops into Budapest on the night of 3 November 1956. 
Such was the chronological sequence of events. Freedom was lost forever. Communist suppression of Hungary became the order of the day. The tragedy which was felt on a personal level by hundreds of thousands of Hungarians is not well recorded in history. I have gained a proper sense of this tragedy only by talking with the Hungarians who now five in my electorate. I take this opportunity to express my concern in the records of the Parliament and to express my sorrow and to extend my condolences to the Hungarians of Perth who tragically lost their country in 1956 and who came to our country where freedom fortunately is still our most cherished possession. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Which international airports in Australia have curfews on aircraft arrival and departure times. 
What are the curfew times at these airports. 
Are limitations of this kind placed on international airlines using Penh Airport. 
If not, what would be the implications of imposing curfews on international airlines using Penh Airport. 
Are such limitations imposed on intra- Australian airlines using Penh Airport; if not, why not. 
Why must many interstate flights leave Penh Airport at midnight, thereby inconveniencing many residents in nearby suburbs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is the Minister aware that the principal legal officer of the Perth office of the Aboriginal Legal Service has recently stated that the Service has been required to curtail its development program substantially, because of limited financial resources? To what extent, if any, have these limitations impaired the quality of Aboriginal legal services in Perth, in other parts of Western Australia and throughout Australia? Can the Minister inform the House of the present position regarding funding of the Aboriginal legal service? Finally, can the Minister assure the House that the status of the Aboriginal Legal Service in Western Australia and in other States will not be reduced with the establishment of the proposed State legal aid commissions? 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. How can the Government prevent the advantages that devaluation brings to the Australian economy being dissipated, particularly with regard to wages policy, control of the money supply and possible short term profiteering by those Australian companies now enjoying higher rates of protection? 
-Can the Treasurer assure the House that the Government will take all the measures at its disposal, including tariff reductions and, if necessary, an investigation of the possibility of introducing a short term freeze on prices and wages, to counter the inflationary effects of the currency devaluation and prevent the burden of such action being borne by the regressive impact of imposition of higher interest rates. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Is the right honourable gentleman aware that the Western Australian Industrial Commission is to pass on the full consumer price index rises for the next 3 quarters to all workers under its State awards? Is not wages policy an important part of any national economic management program? What can this Government do to rectify the ridiculous situation where a major weapon of national economic policy is determined by 6 State wage-fixing bodies moving in their own separate ways, the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission possibly moving in another direction, and government policy possibly moving in none of these directions? Is this not further justification for the introduction of a national incomes policy? 
I would like to speak tonight about a matter that has been brought to my attention by a number of my constituents. It concerns the possible introduction by this Government of special telephone services for use by deaf people. I refer to the Magsat telephone typewriter which is manufactured by the Magsat Corporation. I think the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  mentioned this matter during the Estimates debate a couple of months ago. I commend him for that. I often get the feeling that the deaf people are not as well catered for by governments as are other handicapped people. This is partly due to the nature of their disability. For a start, because of their affliction, the majority of the prelinqually deaf have to work in unskilled employment and therefore do not have normal earning capacity. Also because the deaf are employable they do not receive any special benefits or concessions from the Department of Social Security. They do not individually possess the capacity to meet the costs of financing developments, such as these communication devices, which would simplify and improve life for the deaf. 
Briefly, the devices I refer to are telephones which operate on the teleprinter principle. They are small, lightweight and portable. When the telephone is connected a display light glows informing the user that the line is open and ready for his call. If the person being called is deaf his telephone ringing indicator system will activate a flashing light. The device can also attract a hearing person in the normal way. Therefore it can be used for deaf people to communicate with members of their family, their relatives and their friends who do not suffer from this affliction. Once this has been done the 2 parties can type to each other and the letters will be displayed simultaneously on both screens. This to my mind is a magnificent technological advance designed for the sole purpose of helping partially to overcome the difficult communication problem of deaf people. In my representations to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  I was pleased to learn that several of the devices which can be used in this regard are being obtained by Telecom Australia for evaluation to assess their suitability for use within the Austraiian telephone network. 
I am also informed that some of these types of equipment are fairly costly. I certainly understand that. They represent very sophisticated electronic advances. The Minister has informed me that the Australian Telecommunications Commission intends approaching the various social welfare departments- the Department of Social Security, the Department of Health and the Department of Veterans' Affairs- to investigate whether or not they will be prepared to assist possible users financially by subsidising purchases or rentals of these devices. I submit that these people are just as entitled, and probably much more entitled, and deserving of tele- phone services at a cost no greater than that borne by other individuals in society for the installation and renting costs of telephones. 
The Government has a very substantial obligation to provide these services to these handicapped people. If capital costs are very substantial perhaps a pilot scheme could be introduced linking such telephones to emergency services such as hospitals, police, fire brigades, and the ambulance services. This could subsequently be extended, if it is possible financially, to include a communication network between all deaf people and between them and their families, relatives and friends. If costs are such as to make the Government equivocate on introducing such a scheme I suggest that it lay faith in the well deserved reputation the Australian public has of raising money for charitable purposes. I emphasise that this is essentially a government responsibility. I ask the Minister to give this project top priority. It would not only greatly benefit the 8000 prelinqually deaf people in Australia- I think there are more than 400 in Western Australiabut also it would benefit those people who have sustained a severe hearing loss later in life and who cannot use the normal telephone services. I urge the Minister, the Government and this Parliament to take a compassionate view in this matter. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Did the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia state that the present structure of the Consumer Price Index is of limited relevance to the expenditure pattern of pensioners. 
Is it a fact that the Household Expenditure Survey 1974-75 did not collect data specifically from the aged pensioners who rely solely on the pension for their income. 
If so, will he ensure that samples from such respondents are separately included in future surveys, so that, if found to be necessary, a new price index will be structured for these pensioners, with its weighting designed to reflect their different expenditure patterns. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many of the registered unemployed have been laced in employment by the Commonwealth Employment Service during 1976. 
How many of these have resigned from their place of employment within 3 months of commencing work, and again registered for employment and subsequently received unemployment benefits. 
How many have resigned after working more than 3 months, and subsequently became eligible to receive unemployment benefits again. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to recent events in Uganda. Does the Government intend to express its concern about  President  Amin's regime to the United Nations Human Rights Commission? In the Government's view, should Uganda still be regarded as a member of the British Commonwealth in good standing? If not, will the Government seek the views of other member nations with a view to dissociating themselves from the present regime in Uganda either at or before the next Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting? 
I wish to speak this evening about the most recent bout of atrocities committed in Uganda by the regime of President Amin. I recognise that what I say tonight will do little to alleviate the suffering of the Ugandan people. Unforunately there is little any of us can do. But I cannot sit back and say nothing. It is incumbent upon me and all of us to speak out against this tyrant and the cruelty and inhumanity that he perpetuates in his country. 
If speaking is the only weapon open to us, let us all speak. We can let the people of Uganda know that somewhere outside the borders of their country there is a widespread concern and dismay at their lot. We have a responsibility as members of the Parliament of a free country representing a free and responsible people to put their views. We have a responsibility to speak up for the cause of human rights in all countries, and nowhere are these less respected than in Uganda. We cannot any longer compromise our views by the dictates of diplomatic pragmatism. I was therefore pleased to hear today that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  intends to communicate directly to the Government of Uganda this Government's abhorrence of the continuing reign of terror imposed by the regime of Uganda on the Ugandan people. 

 President Amin, since he came into power in 1971, has been responsible for the widespread slaughter of his own people. He has expelled all Asians from Uganda. He has presided over the disintegration of his country's economy. He has allowed his country to become a refuge for international hijackers. He has abolished all political freedoms and remains in office by exterminating all possible challengers to his authority and creating an atmosphere of terror in all his subjects. He has executed university students at will, obviously because he realises that people with some intellectual capacity will not take long to recognise him for what he is. Estimates of people executed in Uganda range from 30 000 to 300 000. Grisly accounts of how these people were executed do not bear repeating here as they are well documented elsewhere. Most of the evidence, unfortunately, appears to be quite credible. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  referred in this House last year to the report of the International Commission of Jurists of May 1974 which showed evidence of a massive and continuing violation of human rights in Uganda which suggested a planned campaign of systematic liquidation. These are the kind of things that have become commonplace in Uganda today. I think that we would all be remiss in our duty not to register our protest in this Parliament, regardless of whether or not it will contribute to a solution of the problem. 
As I have said, I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is conveying this Government's protest about the recent atrocities in Uganda to the Ugandan Government. But I think we can do more than that. As Uganda is, in terms of the Minister's comments today, quite obviously not a member of the British Commonwealth in good standing, I hope that the Australian Government will now seek the views of other member nations with a view to dissociating themselves from the present regime in Uganda before the next Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting. I would like to think that the Prime Minister of this country, or of any country interested in the preservation of human rights, would be seated at the same conference table as  President  Amin. In my opinion no member of this Government, let alone the Prime Minister, should ever allow himself to be present in the same forum as  President  Amin. He is not worthy of our presence. Perhaps in this way our view will become known to him. 
I think our view can be made known to President Amin in other ways also. Let us also take action to bring Amin and his regime before the Human Rights Commission of the United Nations. Let us also cease to give official recognition to his regime. Finally, if any Australian citizens are in peril let us take the appropriate action before the International Court of Justice on thenbehalf. It is time for us to express our views in a frank, honest and direct way not only in relation to Uganda but also in relation to all countries which suppress human rights and prostitute human dignity. I think we would all be negligent in our duty to our constituents and this nation if we failed to speak out on this and similar issues. 
I am pleased to be able to support the motion moved by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom).  I would like, firstly, to make some comments about the economy and the policy being undertaken by this Government as outlined in the Queen's opening Speech. The Opposition and a substantial section of the media seem to wait expectantly, even eagerly, for bad news. Therefore before speaking out about some of the principles behind the Government's economic strategy I would like to spend some time looking at the positive results so far achieved. Firstly, the control of inflation has been accepted by this Government as the first prerequisite for restoring the private sector, for returning the economy to more normal levels of activity and for reducing unemployment. This causal relationship between inflation and unemployment has been recognised by responsible economic institutions and governments throughout the world. 
The nexus between unemployment and inflation has changed in recent times and their simultaneous occurrence is relatively new. Traditionally a trade-off between inflation and unemployment was possible. Either of these factors could be improved but at some expense to the other. This occurred during the 1960s in Australia and led to fairly predictable and workable economic policies. In the past few years this relationship has changed. We have seen record levels of inflation and unemployment occurring together. Attempts by the previous Government to reflate the economy led only to higher inflation rates, higher interest rates and higher unemployment levels. Quite obviously we live in a new economic order. No longer is there the price and wage flexibility of years gone by. The economy is now more rigidly structured, with consumers, employers, employees and governments having different attitudes and expectations. All behave much differently. All possess a greater capacity to impose their individual will on the economy, irrespective of the consequences. Ten years ago it would have been unheard of to seek record money wage increases in times of record unemployment, as is happening now. Conversely it would have been unheard of to consider massive tax cuts in times of high inflation. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd, in its latest survey of business indicators, referred to the fact that in recent years movements in aggregate demand no longer give rise to predictable movements in prices and wages. If one accepts, as most do, that inflation is the basic cause of our present problems, then it is inflation which must be tackled. 
The results to date are quite heartening. In annual terms the rate of inflation, with the Medibank component removed, was 10.8 per cent last year, compared with 16.7 per cent in 1975. In making this comparison I feel it is reasonable to omit the levy. We should be comparing fundamental economic relationships. The Medibank levy involved a political decision, a philosophical commitment to make people personally accountable for a portion of their health costs. It is not a result of economic forces leading unavoidably to higher health costs. For that reason, if one is comparing key economic indicators, such independent variables should be omitted. Other indicators show that the economy is beginning to move in the right direction. Between the December quarter of 1975 and the September quarter of last year there was an increase of  Vh  per cent in real gross non-farm product. This trend appears to be continuing, with industrial production increasing strongly in the last half of 1976. 1 think it is worth remembering in this context that in the last half of the term of office of the Whitlam Government real output actually fell. There was a negative rate of growth. 
The demand indicators give some reason for optimism. Exports, private expenditure on dwellings and stock building have contributed to this economic growth. Businesses have indicated that they expect new capital expenditure in the December quarter to exceed the September quarter level considerably. Real private investment in plant and equipment, seasonally adjusted, responding to the Government's investment allowance, increased by 4.3 per cent in the 6 months to September, following a 3.6 per cent decline in the 6 months to March 1976. Furthermore, company profits, the basis for future investment and future jobs, increased by 26.2 per cent in the 6 months to September 1976, as compared with almost no change at all in the 6 months to March 1976. These are some of the positive aspects of the economy at present. There are soft spots, but I think we should look at some of the indicators in a realistic light. If we do we must come to the conclusion that there are some grounds for optimism at present. 
I would like to place our economic strategy within the perspective of recent comments by Opposition spokesmen on the economy. The trade union movement and Labor spokesmen in general have criticised the Government for its wages policy. They have done so again today. In this context I quote from the annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia for the year ended 30 June 1976: 
In the 12 months to December 1974, average weekly earnings rose by 28 per cent, consumer prices by 16 per cent, and so real wages by some 10 per cent- cramming into 12 months the normal trend growth of real wages accruing in about 3 years- and this in a year in which average productivity fell as output contracted. 
In recognising the need for money wage increases and productivity increases to maintain some kind of balance, the Reserve Bank stated: 
The need is for the main aims of stabilisation policywages policy, budgetary policy and monetary policy- to keep moving firmly towards restraint. 
This has been the cornerstone of the Government's domestic economic strategy. It is interesting to note, in relation to the Reserve Bank's call for moderation in wages policy, that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  is a member of the Reserve Bank Board. When he is wearing other hats he could hardly be called a strong advocate of wage restraint. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has also sought to criticise the Government's endeavours to bring about restraint in wage and salary increases. In 1975 he clearly stated that inflation in Australia was primarily and almost solely due to wage increases and claims. So it is little wonder that Labor's socalled new economic policy makes no reference to the all important area of wages policy. 
Another suggestion put forward by Opposition spokesmen in their economic policy is to reduce taxes as a means of stimulating consumer spending. This, in my view, ignores recent experience regarding consumer behaviour. During Labor's period of office, particularly in 1974, when award wages rose at record rates and the savings ratio also reached record levels, consumer spending did not react at all. There was an increase in that year of less than one per cent. All that happens is that tax cuts, when associated with government expenditure increases, lead in turn to larger deficits, higher interests rates, higher inflation rates and, of course, higher unemployment rates. Contrary to what was the case, this leads to the consumer squirrelling effect because of the known likely impact on future employment prospects. Rather than spending in order to hedge against inflation, consumers save against the possibility of future unemployment. In this respect I see tax cuts, as a means of stimulating the economy, as possibly being counter productive. But I advocate the need for tax reform on equity grounds, as does the Government. The question really is one of timing and waiting until the inflation rate comes under control. 
The Opposition has stated that it would indulge in selective government expenditure increases as a means of stimulating the economy. In fact its lack of statements on wages policy, together with the recommendations for increased government expenditure and reduced taxation, have a very familiar ring. In my opinion, it is a recipe for disaster because it leads to inflationary pressures. To suggest that increased government expenditure would help to reduce unemployment is also to ignore the lessons of our recent past. This, as I have said before, may have been a useful remedy in the 1960s, for then high unemployment was generally accompanied by low rates of inflation and could be corrected without putting undue pressure on prices. That is no longer the case. Resource and commodity prices now respond to factors other than demand and resource utilisation. The period 1973-75 should have shown once and for all that massive public sector expenditure as a part of economic strategy does not necessarily reduce unemployment. Record levels of government expenditure and unemployment occurred at the same time. Further, to suggest, as the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  suggested, that a government would deliberately create unemployment to reduce inflation ignores, firstly, the fact that unemployment and inflation are no longer alternatives, and, secondly, ignores the fact that under Labor record levels of unemployment did not reduce the inflation rate. In fact the relationship was the other way round. The record level of unemployment was caused by record levels of inflation. I am pleased to support the Government's present economic strategy. I trust that the Government will maintain its resolve to make the control of inflation its number one priority. 
Another aspect of the Speech by Her Majesty which I support is that section in which she stated that the Government would continue to assist those people most in need. The Government's strategy of reducing the rate of increases in government expenditure has been accompanied by a genuine concern to concentrate its resources on those who need help the most. This, in my opinion, is most commendable and should be the basis of any social welfare system. I believe that if the ability to pay is used as the basis for collecting revenue through progressive taxation, it is only logical that the means of disbursing such revenue should be based on the criterion of need. Other countries which have adopted universal schemes have recently found that they are cumbersome and intractable and that they prevent maximum benefits from being directed to those most in need. Countries such as the United Kingdom and Canada, through recently published white papers, have expressed the opinion that selective benefits may better serve their needs. So I support the view that greater emphasis should be placed on anti-poverty measures as a basis for welfare action. 
Not only does Australia according to a recent World Bank survey have a more equal distribution of income than almost any other country in the world but also I believe there is merit in the suggestion that Australia's adoption of a basically selective approach to welfare is largely responsible for the fact that the incidence of poverty in Australia is lower than in any country with the possible exception of the Scandinavian countries. This approach to welfare allows a greater degree of flexibility for the Government to address itself to new areas of need as they arise. 
The Henderson inquiry into poverty in Australia recognised, for example, the plight of large low income families and the Government immediately introduced the family allowance scheme in order to provide greater help to those who needed it most. Under the previous tax rebate system the greatest benefit went to those who needed it least. I hope that the Government will continue to move into other areas of need as and when they are recognised. In particular I again support the need for assistance to lone fathers. This is a matter which I have already discussed in the Parliament at some length. I also return to the need to up-date the various subsidies which are available under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act which have not been increased at all since the Act came into force. These and other areas of need I feel sure can be better catered for by the flexibility which is inherent in the Government's needs based welfare policy. 
The only other matter I wish to raise at this time is the question of tax reform, particularly for elderly citizens and married couples who receive a part pension. In the latter part of 1976 thousands of age pensioners who were not solely dependent on the pension for their income received greatly increased tax assessments for the year 1975-76. Outside the issue ofthe economy, I believe that this is one of the biggest social issues in Australia today. I have been inundated with complaints from pensioners who are facing tax assessments which represent a doubling, trebling or even quadrupling of their tax liability. Many are facing commitments they either cannot meet or if they do meet them they will drastically have to change their life styles. The amounts involved are substantial and, because they were not budgeted for by these people who live on tight budgets, this problem has created widespread distress. I stress that these problems stem from the 1975-76 financial year and not from the policies of this present Government. I think this is one of the more unfortunate legacies of the Labor era, and particularly of the 1975 and earlier Budgets. I am prepared to be charitable and to give the Opposition the benefit of the doubt. I do not think that these difficulties were fully envisaged by the Labor Government and I think that they may even have got under our belt. Although this problem was created between 1973 and 1975 it did not emerge fully until the latter part of 1976. 
Briefly, the history of the problems stemmed from the previous Government's decision to tax age pensions. This was a step which was taken in conjunction with its policy to abolish the means test. Abolition of the means test is a matter over which there is still a great deal of debate. There are strong arguments for and strong arguments against but it involves a political decision. Both of the major political parties in Australia have this principle firmly wedded with their policies. Notwithstanding that, if the abolition is proceeded with it is generally accepted that some claw-back through taxes is necessary in order to preserve some element of the criterion of need. I think that is a reasonable proposition, but much depends on how it is done, and this is where the problems emerge. 
One problem, of course, is that only some age pensioners benefited from the abolition of the means test and they were the people of 70 years and over. But all pensioners, except those fully dependent on the pension as their sole source of income, suffered from the taxing of the pension, particularly after the age allowance was abolished. Further difficulties were created by replacing concessional deductions with the general rebate in the 1975 Hayden Budget. Perhaps most important of all, increasing pensions, which are now automatically adjusted, and increasing superannuation payments, in the absence of tax reform, have meant that all pensioners with substantially increased money incomes but not increased real incomes have been confronted with higher marginal tax rates, and this has placed thousands of elderly Australians in a very serious financial position. 
Although the problem was created by the previous Labor Government it is no good simply apportioning blame. That is of small comfort to the people involved. I hope that the Government will investigate the severity of what is a quite complex problem. I am not recommending special tax treatment for aged people solely on the basis of age and without reference to need. But I suggest that the living standards of this very large cross-section of people have only recently been adversely affected by the fiscal events of earlier years. I ask the Government to examine this matter and, if necessary, consider appropriate reforms to redress this situation. I have pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the honourable member for Braddon. 
I raise tonight a matter dealing with the administration of this House. In particular I refer to the poor back-up of clerical and typing facilities which are available to members on both sides of this House.  Mr Deputy Speaker  I should like you to convey these comments, criticisms and suggestions to  Mr Speaker.  I do not normally raise matters of an administrative nature in this place. They are of no interest to my constituents. But I believe all of us in this place suffer in the way we represent our constituents by the lack of back-up facilities. As I see the situation at the moment for all back benchers- there are 127 of us minus the ministry and the Opposition front bench- there are 5 dictating machines to be shared amongst all of us. There are 3 official non-party stenographers who can do our representation work and all the typing that is connected with it. In addition to that there are about half a dozen party stenographers, but they are normally required to do typing and clerical work of a political nature. They type our speeches, questions and all other matters of political consequence. The 3 official non-party secretaries are here only 3 days a week and they work only 8 hours a day. So they are not on call for us when we need them. The whole of our representation work is borne by these 3 people and by the 5 dictating machines which we have to share amongst us. We all know that we have a consistent and heavy electoral load to carry in this place. I raise this matter because of the difficulty we have and I had today in getting hold of one of these machines. There are only five to go around so if one is lucky enough to get one when one leaves one's office to go to the toilet or a committee meeting when one comes back one finds one 's machine is gone- someone else needs it. 
I am sorry I took the honourable member's tonight. This is a serious problem. One cannot have a dictating machine for more than four or five hours a week. I do not think that is good enough. I am not casting any aspersions on the secretaries. They do their work efficiently in difficult circumstances. Even if one is lucky enough to get a machine and to put some letters on tape, if one does that after Tuesday night one is then told by the secretaries that they will not be able to type the letters before one leaves this place and returns to one's State. That is even a greater problem for those of us who have to go back to Western Australia or to the Northern Territory or to other outposts of this country. We might be lucky enough to get a tape full of correspondence ready for typing finished on a Tuesday night but we cannot have it typed here during the week. If we take it home on Friday we find that our secretaries in our electorate offices already have enough work and they can do the typing only during the weekend. That is not good enough and they cannot be expected to do that all the time. What happens is that we dictate a letter one Tuesday and we bring back the tape with us the following Tuesday. Then, after it has been typed by Wednesday or Thursday, it can go in the mail. Therefore it takes 2 weeks from our initially dealing with the correspondence to that correspondence getting to the constituents. I think that we deserve better. I think that our constituents deserve a better service from us. I think that the expense involved in getting one or two additional non-official party stenographers in this place would be minimal. 
Accommodation problems would exist but I cannot see why we could not utilise some of the empty rooms at the Hotel Kurrajong to house these people. We can get the tapes and the letters transferred there quite easily. It appears to me that some of the attendants in this place are not flat out all day every day, and it would not be hard for them to do this kind of messenger work which would enable all of us to do our representation work on behalf of our constituents much more efficiently.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I should like you to convey this matter to the  Speaker  and to ask him whether he can do something about it very urgently. 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to support the Asian Development Bank (Additional Subscription) Bill. It is a fairly technical piece of legislation and one that is not likely to stir the emotions either of this House or of the nation. But it does provide us with the opportunity to outline briefly the rationale and the functions of the Asian Development Bank and the reasons for and the extent of Australia's participation in the past, at the moment and in the future in the activities of this Bank. As all honourable members know, the Asian Development Bank is an international development finance institution which is owned by its member governments, of which we are one. It was established mainly for the purpose of lending funds and providing technical assistance to developing member countries in the region of Asia and the Far East, including the South Pacific, and for promoting investment and generally fostering economic growth in the region. 
The Bank's lending program has been directed towards increasing the productivity potential of all developing member countries. Between 1968 and 1975, 35 per cent of loan approvals went to public utilities, 23 per cent to agriculture and agro-industry, 22 per cent to industry, and 1 9 per cent to transport and communications. So there has been a heavy emphasis on infrastructure development. This kind of investment activity is totally in line with the comments of the head of the World Bank- the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development-  Mr McNamara,  who stated: 
Policies aimed at diminishing income inequalities through direct redistribution of wealth will not be sufficient to end indigence- what is required are policies that will enhance the productivity of the poor. 
There is no question that the Bank's activities have been directed to this end. For that reason, Australia has historically been an active supporter of the Asian Development Bank, and it has provided a useful agency through which we can engage fully in regional co-operation and development. I am therefore pleased that Australia agreed to support the resolution to increase by 135 per cent the authorised and subscribed capital of the Bank, a resolution which was recommended by the board of directors in view of the Bank's projected lending program for the period 1976 to 1981. It has been noted that member countries are not obliged to subscribe to the authorised increase; they are merely entitled to. But in view of the function of the Bank, our place in the region, and the important role the Bank plays in our overall aid program, I am pleased that the Government has agreed to take up its entitlement. 
There is no question that the developed countries of the region must play a role in the activities of the Bank I say this because the developing member countries of the Bank account for onethird of the world's population, they have the highest rates of population growth and the lowest per capita incomes- not to mention their low health, housing and other social conditions. It is for this reason, that the developed countries of the world have an obligation to help those who live in these deprived circumstances. I would therefore point out to those who would question the way Australia quite regularly increases its subscription to the Bank, that the Asian Development Bank is not just supported by the developing countries of the region, or by the developed countries of the area such as Australia, Japan and New Zealand, but it is also supported by developed nations throughout the world including the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada, the Scandinavian countries, France, Denmark and many other industrialised nations. So, it is not just an Asian development bank; it is a world bank so far as its membership is concerned, although of course the funds are solely utilised in this region. 
I am pleased to say that in terms of the statement of subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank, as reported in the Bank's annual report for the year to 31 December 1975, Australia stands out as a major contributor to the ordinary capital resources of the Asian Development Bank. Of the 27 regional members of the Bank only Japan and India contribute more than Australia, and of the 14 non-regional members- all industralised nations- only the United States makes a higher contribution than Australia. If this comparison was made on a per capita basis, I would suggest that Australia would be the biggest contributor of all members, both regional and non-regional, and I therefore congratulate this Government upon that. 
I would ask honourable members opposite, who always seek to criticise our foreign aid programs, to take account of that per capita contribution to this institution. It should also be observed, in view of the comment of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  that Australia's official development assistance of about 0.5 per cent of gross national product is well above the average for the developed nations of the world. The par value of Australia's subscribed shares in the Asian Development Bank amounts to $US256.3m. The instalments which have matured amount to $US82m. I would submit that this is a very significant contribution. 
I emphasise that quite apart from the humanitarian obligations which all developed countries have to participate in multilateral institutions of this nature, it should be recognised that there are certain benefits which accrue to the developed nations by virtue of their participation. I think it is essential that Australia have an effective voice in the decision making process and activities of an international development finance institution which serves the largest developing region of the world, which is also the poorest developing region, and a region of the world in which we are one of a very few developed countries. The political necessity of such participation goes without saying. 
The Asian Development Bank also provides Australia and other developed countries with an opportunity to co-ordinate their own programs of bilateral aid to the developing member countries with the activities of the Bank. There is no question that the Bank's technical assistance activities which totalled nearly $US6 billion in 1975, and which cover project operations, institution building and sectoral studies and several of the Bank's other development functions, including its assessment of country performance, are of particular relevance to developed countries in making their own aid programs more effective and worthwhile. Of course, we benefit from reciprocal business. I would like to mention a little more about that later in this speech. But the essential point to make is that Australia, through its participation as a regional member of the Bank, is playing its part, and a very significant pan, in supporting the Pearson Commission's statement that the purpose of such aid is:   to help the poorer countries to move forward in their own way into the industrial and technological age so that the world will not become more and more starkly divided between the haves and the have-nots, the privileged and the less privileged. 
No other country in the world has a greater obligation in this regard than Australia. The realities of the situation are clear and were expressed by the Minister for Foreign affairs  (Mr Peacock)  when he presented the Government's foreign policy statement to the House last Tuesday. He said: 
For at least the next decade, we will still be a sparsely populated and richly endowed country in a world which is going to be increasingly overcrowded, short of food, energy and other essentials, and seized of the importance of how the world 's resources are distributed and utilised. 
These are the political and humanitarian realities that Australia is presently facing. I am satisfied that the Government, by virtue of its past association with the Asian Development Bank and because of the present action it is taking under this Bill, is discharging its responsibilities to the region in a proper manner. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) How many pensioners reside within the Electoral Division of Perth. 
Of these, how many are (a) age pensioners, (b) invalid pensioners, (c) wives, (d) widows, showing a breakdown between classes A, B and C and ( e ) supporting mothers. 
How many age pensioners within the Division rely solely on the pension as their source of income. 
Which electoral divisions in Australia have more pensioners than the Electoral Division of Perth. 
-When this debate was interrupted last Thursday I was giving my support to the Government's decision to provide once again substantial funds to the Asian Development Bank. I had indicated that in terms of the statement of subscriptions to the capital stock of the Bank, Australia, on a per capita basis, is probably the most generous contributor to the Asian Development Bank of all the industrialised nations of the world. I also indicated that such support is essential on humanitarian grounds and constitutes an obligation which we share with all developed countries with respect to multilateral aid institutions of this kind. I further stated that in view of Australia's strategic position in this region our support is also justified on more pragmatic and political grounds. However, I should like to query one aspect of the activity of the Asian Development Bank concerning the considerable reciprocal business which is generated by the loan and investment activities of the Bank. This matter was also raised by the honourable member for Eden Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  earlier in the debate. 
It is well known that participation by the developed countries of the Asian Development Bank gives them the right to participate in procurement of goods and services under Asian Development Bank loans. Borrowers are permitted normally to use the proceeds of a bank loan only for procurement in member countries of goods and services produced by them. Similarly, consulting firms and consultants are also selected only from member countries. But I understand that the bulk of this business- some 40 per cent of it- is directed to Japan, 8 per cent is directed to the United States of America and only 2 per cent accrues to Australia. We are substantial contributors to the Bank and I should like to know the reasons for the fact that we do not fare well in this regard. 
As the Bank's procurement policies are based on open, competitive bidding I would suggest that one major reason for Australia missing out in this area is the high rates of inflation we have experienced in recent years as compared to other countries. This probably is a perfect example of how continuing high inflation rates can have an adverse effect on our international competitiveness. I should be grateful if the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  could assure me and the House that this is the only reason for our poor performance in this regard and that it is not due to other administrative or non-market factors. I am concerned about this matter particularly in view of the significance of Australia's subscription to the capital stock of the Bank in relation to other members, the details of which I outlined in the debate last Thursday evening. 
I want to make it clear that I am not suggesting that Australia should contribute to the Asian Development Bank on the understanding that it gets some kind of  pro rata  return, but I do believe it is a legitimate area of concern which I hope the Minister will be able to clarify for me. I should also like to know from the Minister what follow-up steps are taken by the Asian Development Bank to ensure that projects, once implemented, are successfully maintained in the recipient countries. I ask this because of the fact that the Bank works on a project by project basis because the average amount lent for projects financed by the Bank is well in excess of $ 10m and especially because, to my understanding, the Bank has no resident staff or branch offices in member countries. Perhaps the Minister can provide some reassurances in this matter. But it should also be noted that Australia has contributed substantially in the past to the Bank's soft loan activities through its contribution to the Asian Development Fund. This area of activity was also outlined in some detail last Thursday by the honourable member for Eden Monaro. These loans are concessional loans made to the poorest of the Bank's members. This Government indicated last year that this aid must be continued and expanded. I fully support that view and was pleased that Australia recently agreed to contribute her allocated amount of the replenishment to this fund at a cost of $US41.6m. These loans are made on standard terms of 40 years maturity including a 10-year grace period, with a service charge of 1 per cent per annum. 
In 1976, as stated in the Minister's second reading speech, these special loans totalled $US236m out of total bank loans of $US776m. This is a substantial proportion. Some people have questioned the capacity of the Bank to do this and still to ensure its creditworthiness in the capital markets of the world where it competes for funds. I feel that 2 points should be made in this regard. Firstly, the Bank operates in the poorest developing region of the world and must therefore finance some of its transactions in a way which allows assistance to reach those countries which need it most. This kind of assistance has primarily gone to the very poor nations such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, Burma, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Secondly, concessional loans are not made from funds borrowed by the Bank. The soft loans are made from the Bank's special funds which are, to quote the charter of the Bank: 
Held, used, committed, invested, or otherwise disposed of entirely separate from the ordinary capital resources of the Bank. 
I am pleased that the Government has honoured its obligation to the poorer countries of this region by its substantial contribution to both the hard and soft loan activities of the Bank. While I was speaking last Thursday the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  interjected that this Government was not doing enough with respect to our foreign aid program. A number of my constituents have also written to me on this matter. I remind the House again that Australia 's official development assistance of 0.5 per cent of gross national product is well above the average for the developed nations of the world. I agree that it should be more, and so should the contributions of all developed countries. I believe that this Government shares that view. I am pleased that this Government has set itself the longer term target of devoting 0.7 per cent of our gross national product to our foreign aid programs. In the meantime, it is gratifying to note that on a  per capita  basis our contribution to the Asian Development Bank which serves the poorest developing region of the world surpasses the contributions of all the developed nations. I am pleased to be able to support the Bill presently before the House. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the reported widespread opposition to the incomes and prices pause by some sections of the trade union movement, will the Prime Minister inform the House what steps the Government is taking or proposes to take to discuss further the freeze with employer and employee organisations throughout Australia? 
-At the outset I must say that I support many of the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  This will become obvious during the course of my remarks. Before discussing immigration policies, I would first like to address myself to the findings of the first report of the National Population Inquiry. The Population Inquiry highlights some quite startling facts which I believe must provide the basis for future government planning, not only in immigration but in almost all areas of government policy. The important facts are, firstly, that after a generation of  consistently  high population growth rates, a marked downturn in the rate of growth of Australia's population has recently occurred and is likely to continue. We are told that basically this is due to a declining fertility rate and that it is a trend in keeping with what has been experienced in almost all industrial societies. 
The second fact which is related to this trend is that within a generation from the onset of a unity net reproduction rate, population growth rates will have been reduced by at least 50 per cent and the momentum of growth will be receding rapidly towards a non-growth situation. There are many other significant findings from the report but time does not permit them to be spelt out in full. The most important demographic influence at the moment is the declining fertility rate in Australia and this point requires further examination. 
It is clear from the Borrie report that fertility rates will play a dominating role in determining Australia's population in the years ahead although, as with mortality rates, governments have limited influence in this area. The problem for the demographers is to predict whether or not the present decline in fertility is temporary. On the one hand it could be clearly stated that from the point of view of child-bearing current patterns of marriage are extremely favourable to a higher level of fertility. It could be suggested that the recent decline is only temporary as women have delayed their child-bearing because of short term economic circumstances. Much of the decline in births since 1971 is due to women in their 20s having fewer children than women of a similar age did in the 1 960s. Assuming these are only temporary delays, many of these marriages and delayed births may be made up for later in the lives of these women. If this is the case, one should think very carefully before accepting the necessity for high immigration rates. 
I believe there is sufficient evidence to suggest that the present decline in fertility is longer term and is due to fundamental social changes which are not likely to be reversed in the foreseeable future. Of course, this has strong implications for future immigration programs. A number of factors lead me to this conclusion. I think it could be argued that these present developments might indicate a trend towards smaller family size. The pattern of later marriage and delay in having the first child is now well-established in the United States. This may be due to the fact that there is now greater female access to higher education and to the job market. This in turn has increased the opportunity costs or earnings forgone in having children. 
I would argue that factors such as these, together with the so-called new identity for women which is espoused by the feminist movements, together with the increasing temptations of increased affluence, are all of a long term nature. As a result and in the absence of any immigration program a continued decline in fertility rates in my opinion will lead us not only to zero population growth but even further to negative rates of population growth in the future. In these circumstances, Australia's governments in future will have to look increasingly to immigration programs to maintain reasonable rates of population growth. 
Having said that, I do think that government has a responsibility to try to do something about the rate of natural growth. The present declining fertility rate, in my view, threatens the very existence of the family unit and therefore the stability of our society. Surely governments can create a framework- economically and sociallywhereby it is more attractive for a couple to have a reasonable sized family. My colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  referred to this matter earlier in the debate. If one compares the various income alternatives of a man working on average award rates, a woman working on average award rates and a couple with one income and the benefits and rebates accruing to their family of, say, two, three or four children, there is no doubt that the family group is disadvantaged in relation to the others. 
I think governments have a responsibility to provide a framework within which the decision by a woman to stay home and raise a family should be encouraged and not discouraged. At the present time the woman who undertakes this task- the most important job imaginable in my opinion- is penalised compared with the wife who chooses to work. Also she is much maligned by women's activist groups who can see no merit in the role of the woman who stays at home to raise and care for her children. Rather, they believe that the woman with the pay packet is the liberated woman. The logic of that argument completely escapes me. Obviously, to create a framework which does away with the disincentives to raise a family will be very costly and will take a long time. I am not saying that the mother and housewife should be paid. What I am trying to say is that she should not be discriminated against when compared with the woman who chooses not to have a family but would rather work. 
I agree wholeheartedly with the comment by the honourable member for Lilley that immigration should be seen as a very valuable addition to the Australian population but not as a substitute for it. Given that any initiatives to redress that imbalance would take a long while to implement, quite clearly there will be a case for a much higher immigration intake in the years to come. In saying this I am automatically rejecting the arguments put forward by the protagonists of zero population growth. I support many of the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect in this regard. 
I will not have time to debate the economic costs and benefits of population growth, although I do have strong views on this subject. But there is no question in my mind that, on balance, in a country richly endowed with natural resources and where, in the long term, there is a relative shortage of human capital, an increasing population, to a point, is essential to provide increasing living standards. But I prefer to argue the case for population growth on grounds of morality, because little emphasis has been placed on this aspect by speakers in this debate so far. Of course, what I am putting is purely a personal view. I find something quite repulsive about the arguments put forward by the protagonists of zero population growth. They seem to suggest that notwithstanding our place in a region of the world which is characterised by poor and developing nations which have the highest rates of population growth and the lowest per capita incomes in the world, Australia should reserve the enjoyment of the resources of this continent- one of the richest in the worldfor the smallest possible number of people. They seem to forget that the capacity to increase living standards in Australia, the capacity to aid our poorer neighbours and the capacity to provide the security to enjoy these living standards in peace, requires an increase in the administrative and productive manpower of the nation. 
The proponents of zero population growth also seem to forget that we have a moral and humanitarian obligation to increase our capacity to utilise our resources to help to provide for the needs of the poorer countries of the world. They forget the impact of external pressures on such a richly endowed country as Australia. These pressures include the demand for our natural resources by these countries and our capacity to produce food surpluses for the vast, over populated and poorer nations of Asia. They forget the rising and quite proper expectations and demands of the Third World and our obligations to refugees from this region, particularly our obligation to refugees from Indo China. These are not only our humanitarian obligations. In the area of foreign policy and defence they constitute a very pragmatic approach to our future needs. 
Therefore, in view of the predicted decline in the rate of natural growth to Australia's population, on balance I support the view that higher immigration rates are required for the future. But I must express some qualifications in this regard. First, we need to consider such an immigration program in terms of Australia's economic structure. I would emphasise that we would not be doing justice to ourselves or to our poorer neighbours if such an intake was to be used to promote the growth of industries which require continuous high tariff protection rather than those which are internationally competitive. If the immigration intake is undertaken together with some restructuring of domestic industries in order to allow the laws of comparative advantage to take effect, such a program is well justified and is in the best interests of both Australia and our trading partners in the region. 
The second qualification I have relates to the rate of increase in the immigration intake. We should not simply be talking about desirable levels of population; we should be very concerned about the rate of change of our population. Little work has been done with regard to assessing Australia's ability to absorb certain rates of immigrant intakes. If migration rates are too high we might be creating adverse social pressures within Australian society. This is a matter to which you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  referred earlier in this debate. We should all be aware, when determining priorities in this area, of some of the findings of the poverty inquiry. That inquiry indicated that 12.3 per cent of recent immigrant income units- those arriving since 1 966- were found to be in poverty as compared with 6.7 per cent of all adult income units. Other surveys have revealed that 28 per cent of immigrant children in Victorian schools could be classified as 'functionally illiterate in the English language'. I could quote other statistics. But these are factors which must be considered when assessing an appropriate rate of intake. 
I would also agree with the Borrie report which suggested that the concept of a long-term constant average intake is unsatisfactory. Immigration levels should be sufficiently flexible to take account of Australia's short term domestic economic problems, our manpower needs and our changing capacity to absorb immigrants after giving full examination to the social consequences of large, constant intakes. But having made those qualifications, on balance and for the reasons I have already stated, I would support the need for a substantial immigration program for Australia for the foreseeable future. I would support it also because of the changing age structure of our population as predicted in the Borrie report. One of the main functions of Australia 's immigration program in the past has been to increase the labour force. It is anticipated that the rate of entry to the work force over the next 15 years will clearly be much less than it has been in the past. If this was allowed to eventuate, surely the economic consequences would be adverse to say the least. Also, in the absence of immigration, coupled with declining fertility rates, Australia will become an ageing nation and it is suggested that within, say, one generation the total proportion of the population dependent on those of working age will increase. How would this increase the living standards and quality of life of all Australians? If we are to have no population increase we would adversely affect these aspirations because we would transfer resources away from education, investment and productive processes to services both government and private for an increasing population of  retired persons. 
Sitting suspended from 6.2 to 8 p.m. 
I have only a short time remaining to me. Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the need for Australia to increase its rate of immigration over the longer term primarily because we had a humanitarian obligation to the poorer nations to develop our richly endowed country for their benefit and also for our longer term benefit. Notwithstanding the arguments I have advanced for increasing our immigration program over the longer term, I submit that this Government and all future Australian Governments have an obligation to ensure that we amend the present social and economic structure of Australia so that those women who wish to raise a family are no longer penalised or discriminated against as compared with the typical 2-income families. This situation has evolved passively and was not deliberately conceived by any government. Nevertheless the situation does exist in Australia. I suggest that any debate on Australia's population policies in the future should give due consideration to this fact. In concluding my remarks I congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  for the way in which he has handled his portfolio in the past. In particular I congratulate him for bringing this Green Paper before the House forks consideration. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the total value of Commonwealth contracts let in the Electoral Division of Perth for which' construction is expected to be completed in 1 976-77. 
What (a) are the projects and (b) is the value of the individual projects referred to in pan ( 1 ). 
What is the total value of Commonwealth contracts presently being undertaken in the Electoral Division of Penh but which are not expected to be completed in 1 976-77. 
What are the projects referred to in part (3). 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 March1977: 
What recurrent and non-recurrent expenditures under major programs administered by the Department of Social Security in the Electoral Division of Penh were made in 1976. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Industrial Court exists in name only since 1 February 1977. 
Is it also a fact that Justices Joske, Smithers, Dunphy and Nimmo are each being paid a salary of $39,500 per annum together with allowances of $2,250 per annum, but are now not required to perform any judicial function. 
If so, how has this situation arisen, and what action does the Government propose to take in order to ensure that it does not continue. 
What action does the Government propose to take to ensure that similar situations with other Courts will not arise in the future. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
1 ) Is there a waiting list for patients wishing to use the facilities of the Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratory in Perth. 
If so, what is the present waiting period. 
If there is a waiting list, what has caused this situation to arise, and what does the Government propose to do to rectify the position. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, relates to the recent general election in India. I ask the Minister: With the defeat of the ruling Congress Party at the recent general election in India, does the Government anticipate an improved relationship with that country? Does the Minister think that India's oft-stated policy of non-alignment will become in practice in the future more nonaligned than it has been in the past? Has the new Indian Government expressed any views regarding its proposed relationship with the Soviet Union and its own attitude towards the future development of defence installations in the Indian Ocean? Has the new Prime Minister of India foreshadowed a change in his country's attitude towards the proliferation and testing of nuclear weapons? Finally, has the Australian Government as yet had an opportunity to express its views on these and other matters to the new Government of India? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Is it a fact that, at all citizenship ceremonies, applicants for citizenship of Australia are required to take an oath of loyalty to The Queen. 
When was the decision taken to remove the photograph of The Queen from the Certificate of Registration as an Australian Citizen which is presented to each person on his or her achieving citizenship. 
Why was this decision taken. 
Will he take action to re-instate the photograph to the certificate. 
-I am pleased to express my support for the Appropriation Bills presently before the House. It is interesting to place these additional Estimates for 1976-77 in a 3-year perspective. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  did this in his second reading speech to Appropriation Bill (No. 3) in which he stated: 
I particularly draw the House's attention to the fact that the amount of $326.073m in additional appropriations sought in the Bills compares with $506.20 1 m provided for last year and $ 1 ,240.94 1 m in 1 974-75. 
Therefore, despite the inflation rates of recent years, these 2 Appropriation Bills indicate that the Government has been successful in exercising its policy of restraint in government expenditure. Further, the Treasurer stated that notwithstanding the additional appropriations sought in these Bills, it was expected that the total outlay in 1976-77 over the whole range of expenditures would not vary significantly from the figure of $24,32 lm that was contained in the Budget of last year. This of course raises the issue whether the Budget remains a reasonable arm of economic management, whether the deficit is important, whether there should be government expenditure restraint, whether there should be tax cuts and whether monetary policy might play a more important role in economic policy in the future. We are, in effect, with these Bills invited to question the rationale of the Government's economic policy to date. 
In previous debates on financial matters, I have outlined my view of the economic problems facing this country. I have outlined the direct and indirect causes of inflation, the relationship between inflation and unemployment and the Government's strategy within that context. In speaking to these Appropriation Bills, I should like to make some comments regarding this Government's attitude to government expenditure and in particular, to restraint in government expenditure. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and other Opposition spokesmen including the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  have often criticised this aspect of the Government's economic strategy. In fact, it forms part of their proposed amendment to Appropriation Bill (No. 3). They stated that stagnation would result from the Government's cutting of public sector expenditure. Those who advocate more government spending are simply out of tune with current economic relationships. They may have been correct in the early 1960s because then high unemployment was generally accompanied by low rates of inflation and could be remedied without putting pressure on prices. I have said in this place before that the 1960s was a period when prices reflected such fundamental things as demand and resource utilisation. But that element of price and wage flexibility which permitted this to occur no longer exists. The Opposition does not seem to realise that times have changed when it advocates increased government expenditure to increase employment. 
As I have said before, under the previous Labor Government the highest ever rates of increase in government spending occurred at the same time as record unemployment. We have unemployment not because of inadequate spending, but because of inadequate investment. Because of excessive government expenditure, the previous Government ran large deficits, financed those deficits largely by printing new money and entered the marketplace competing excessively against the private sector for goods and services. This occurred at a time of declining productivity and it therefore produced great pressure on prices and led to record high interest rates. These factors in turn thwarted investment in key sectors of the Australian economy. It was inadequate investment brought about by these circumstances which therefore produced unemployment. Excess government expenditure, not the lack of it, led to this situation. This is the opinion of a very respectable and widespread body of economic opinion throughout the world. I certainly support the Government's policy of restraint in government expenditure. 
In my opinion there is limited scope for further action in this area. Budgets have become rather intractable and certainly inflexible and in my opinion they are now more useful as a vehicle for governments to impose their ideology on a nation than as a weapon for economic management on a continuing basis. I emphasise the words 'on a continuing basis'. Thus approximately 60 per cent of total outlays are involved in carrying out programs in the Departments of Defence, Health, Education and Social Security. Many of these programs are either of a long-term continuing nature or are caught on the indexation bandwaggon with an automatically inbuilt capacity to involve successively higher outlays each year. I do not suggest that indexation, whether it be of taxes, wages or pensions, is a bad thing; quite the contrary. But I do maintain that it is helping to make the outlays side of budgets more intractable and less amenable to adjustment I doubt whether there is much more the Government can do in a substantial way in this area. 
On the revenue side, we have the continuing call for tax cuts. I should like to make 2 comments in this regard: Firstly, given the nature of the expenditure side of the Budget to which I have already referred, any tax reductions above those already made would inevitably lead to an increased deficit and the kind of inflation and increased pressure on interest rates that Australia has experienced over the past few years. Further tax reductions should await a decline in the inflation rate which has already been substantially reduced by this Government. Secondly, people seem to forget that this Government has already made substantial tax reforms. They constitute a very impressive list. Firstly, there was the introduction of full personal tax indexation in the last Budget. This will represent a cost to revenue of $ 1,050m in 1977-78. This is the single most important tax reform in the history of the Australian tax system. For the first time it gives guaranteed protection to the community from unlegislated tax increases caused by inflation. 
Then there is the investment allowance which also was introduced last year and which will represent a cost to revenue of $550m in 1977-78. This has been instrumental in bringing about a revival in investment spending. Company tax indexation is being introduced with the trading stock valuation adjustment- a charge of $400m against revenue in 1977-78. Taxation from mining and petroleum has been reduced to encourage exploration and development. This involves a loss of revenue of $40m next financial year. Distribution requirements for private companies have been eased and will represent a loss to revenue of $25m in the next financial year. Income equalisation deposits have been introduced to protect farmers from the effects of fluctuating incomes. This represents a cost to revenue of $4m in the next financial year. Estate duty exemptions have been substantially widened at a cost to revenue of $10m in 1977-78. These are all significant tax reforms and will be equivalent to tax reductions in excess of $3,000m in the Government's first 2 years in office. Tax indexation has already saved a family of four on average weekly earnings about $4 a week in 1976-77 and will save them a further $5 a week next year, making a total saving of $9 a week. But these are not savings in the normal sense of the word. They represent money in the hands of the people which they would not have if Labor were still in office and was still continuing to refuse to introduce tax indexation for individuals. 
The point I am developing is that much has already been done in the areas of government expenditure restraint and taxation reforms. In my opinion, as a result of these initiatives, there is very little scope for further budgetary action on either side of the ledger, at least until inflation has been further reduced and solid economic growth is under way. There may be some scope for further expenditure cuts, but I submit that these will be minor in relation to overall expenditure growth which will rise substantially due to inflation, continuing programs in the major portfolios and wage and social security indexation. Such automatic increases in revenue will not occur in future because of tax indexation. This may make governments honest, but it also will make life difficult for future governments in a political sense by locking them into budgetary situations which are not easily altered. In the immediate future, and given the budgetary constraints now confronting governments, there will be an almost inevitable tendency for deficits to increase while rates of economic growth are less than the inflation rate. This in turn is inflationary and will be the inevitable result unless additional revenue is raised or expenditure is reduced. There is limited scope for either in fiscal and political terms. It will therefore be very difficult for the Government to maintain its present budgetary strategy over the longer term. 
When the time comes to pursue a mildly expansionary policy, and I suggest that the time is near, monetary policy will be far more important than fiscal policy. Tax cuts, for instance, are certainly desirable. Governments like providing them and people like getting them. But in the budgetary circumstances I have outlined they would have to follow rather than precede or accompany economic revival. At the moment tax cuts would increase the deficit and might do very little to stimulate expenditure. Recent evidence suggests that they would probably go into extra savings as people continue to hedge against unemployment rather than be spent as a hedge against an inflation rate, which the cuts would help to perpetrate. 
On the other hand, extended credit facilities obviously would be utilised by those who had direct expenditure plans. Monetary expansion is more likely to go into investment than consumption, in line with the Government's investment led recovery policy. I also make the point that monetary expansion could more easily be reversed should economic circumstances require this to be done. For instance, if tax cuts led to greater demand expenditure than expected it would be more difficult, and there would be greater lags, to reverse such decisions than it would be to reverse monetary policy decisions. There is also the added advantage that the Government can, through the Reserve Bank of Australia, broadly direct the areas of increased bank lending, whereas it has less control over the direction of expenditure emanating from tax cuts. But, as I said before, there is a question of timing involved here which may not be as far in the future as some people seem to suggest. 
Australia's restrictive policies have been in line with the policies of most Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. Although the United States, Japan and Germany have pursued mildly expansionary policies, they are in the minority and have a much different recent economic history from that of Australia. Those 3 countries implemented contractionary policies earlier than Australia and they took stimulatory action only after reducing inflation. That was due to the timing and intensity of Australia's economic problems. The shift of income away from profits to wages and the large rise in the proportion of income saved were much sharper than in earlier Australian recessions. The resultant increases in our unemployment and inflation rates produced differences between these rates and their long term average that were greater than those in almost all OECD countries. The OECD currently advocates different economic policies with the 3 stronger countries of the United States, Japan and Germany taking action to stimulate demand but at the same time taking care to avoid measures that would renew inflationary pressures and it recommends that the weaker countries employ severe demand restraint, supplemented where possible by arrangements which limit the growth of incomes. 
It may well be that Australia is now rapidly moving to the position where her economic circumstances justify taking action appropriate to that now being taken in the 3 stronger countries. Although their inflation rates have been reduced, Australia's underlying rate dropped from 16.7 per cent in 1975 to 10.8 per cent in 1976 and the consumer price index figure released today confirms that, notwithstanding the devaluation last year, inflation in Australia is coming under control. The figure of 2.3 per cent for the March quarter indicates that Australia should have single digit inflation for the next 12 months. I think it also should be noted that unemployment levels remain at historically high levels in those stronger countries and that in both the United States and Japan unemployment is higher than in Australia, where there is also considerable excess capacity. 
There are other indicators that also suggest to me that this Government's strategy is working and bringing about an economic recovery. I have already touched on the Government's success in bringing down the inflation rate and mention has been made of the present unemployment levels in Australia. I would like to put the unemployment problem in perspective. During the period of office of the Labor Government the number of people out of work, expressed as a percentage of the work force, rose from 2.39 per cent to 5.41 per cent- an increase of 126 per cent. Since this Government took office in December 1975 not only has unemployment, expressed as a percentage of the work force, stopped increasing but also there has been a slight improvement. Although the position is still not good it is improving. 
Let us look at some other indicators. The nonfarm sector of the economy grew in real terms by over 5 per cent in the year to the December quarter 1976, more than recovering the 4 per cent decline that took place under the last 21 months of the Labor Administration. This is a major indicator of growth in the economy. Another significant economic indicator is the recovery in investment expenditure- normally a necessary pre-requisite for increasing employment. Investment in plant and equipment by private enterprises increased by 32. 1 per cent in the year to the December quarter of 1976, which is equal to a growth of 1 8.4 per cent in real terms. I think that reflects the success of the Government's investment incentives. 
A recent survey by the Commonwealth Statistician indicates that private capital investment expenditure will continue to increase. The 
Treasurer indicated this when answering a question in the House yesterday. He stated: 
Businessmen's expectations are for a growth of 8 per cent during the current 6 months period. The mining industry, in which capital spending has been in decline, shows a complete turnabout with an expected rise in capital spending of 41 per cent. A solid rise of 18 per cent is expected in the manufacturing industry. 
Company profits, which are tomorrow's investments and tomorrow's jobs, constitute a further positive indication that the Government's strategy is working. Company profits recovered strongly last year and, in the December quarter of 1976, were some 33 per cent higher than they were a year earlier. Although there are still weak points in the economy, I feel that there is a sufficient number of promising indicators to suggest that the Treasurer is quite entitled to think that the economy is emerging from its recession and that the basis for future growth and stability in Australia is being steadily secured. For that reason I would suggest that Australia could now be considered as one of the stronger OECD member countries. 
Since this Government took office Australia's economic performance has generally been better than that of most OECD countries. It is therefore necessary for us to ensure that, with the leads and lags in the economic system, we do not lose this momentum due to excessively restrictive policies. I think we are getting to the position achieved by the economies of the United States, Japan and Germany immediately prior to their introduction of mild expansionary policies. I would therefore suggest that, in view of the restricted budgetary options I referred to earlier, the Government could consider some change of emphasis in its monetary policy to provide greater fiscal leverage and to ensure that the gains already achieved are strengthened for the future. 
I support both Bills before the House. They indicate to me the kind of restraining policies that have been successful in turning the direction of the economy to one of growth. I urge the Government now to investigate the possibility of introducing a change of emphasis in its monetary policy further to enhance the prospects of the economy, which quite obviously is now on the mend with at last both inflation and unemployment showing distinct signs of improvement. We must not lose these gains. In supporting the Bills I also reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. Part of that amendment reads: . . . whilst not denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that (a) the slashing of government spending is part of an inept economic strategy . . . 
A visiting United States professor of economics who addressed the Life Underwriters Association in Sydney recently said: 
How could anyone in his right mind, given the experience of the last 3 years in Australia, with massive growths in total spending which are without parallel in any peacetime period in Australian history and which correspond to rising levels of unemployment, argue that if we simply add a little more spending we could produce some more jobs? 
I think that sums up the strategy of the Opposition. I support these Bills and reject the Opposition's amendment. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 March 1 977: 
1 ) Can he say how many abortion clinics have been, or are being, established in Australia. 
Does the Commonwealth have the power to prevent the establishment of abortion clinics in the Territories and the States. 
3 ) If so, would it bc prepared to act to prevent their establishment; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Within which electoral divisions have community committees been established in order to implement the Community Youth Support Scheme. 
Which of these committees have been funded by the Government to date. 
How many youths have been attracted to the Scheme on a regular basis. 
What community projects have been undertaken by each committee. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 9 March 1977. 
What recurrent and non-recurrent expenditures under major programs administered by his Department in the Electoral Division of Perth were made in 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
Which Aboriginal commercial enterprises, initially purchased or funded by the Government, have been instigated in the period 1 972 to 1 976, inclusive. 
What Government expenditure, of a non-recurrent nature, was involved in each of these enterprises. 
Which of these enterprises have ceased operating and what is the reason in each case. 
Which of those enterprises  referred to in  Pan ( 1 ) are: 
still operating successfully; and 
still operating but are no longer commercially successful. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1 977: 
1 ) Which Aboriginal non-commercial enterprises funded by the Government, e.g. pick-up services, have been instigated in the period 1972-1976 inclusive. 
What capital and recurrent Government expenditure has been involved in each of these projects. 
Which of these enterprises have ceased operating and what is the reason in each case. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware of results of studies by prominent British psychiatrists who have found that children under the age of 3 years and who constantly lose the care of their mothers through hospitalisation or regular attendance at child care institutions, suffer long term psychological and emotional damage? Will the Government evaluate the results of such findings, or initiate its own research program in this area before making any long-term decisions about future child care programs in Australia? Finally, in view of these findings, does the Minister think it advisable to consider a change in the direction of support for families by placing more emphasis on means tested income support schemes for parents of young children rather than devoting more resources to the building of child care institutions? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 March 1977: 
How many persons of each of the 10 largest ethnic groups in Western Australia are estimated or known to reside in the electoral division of Perth according to the latest available figures. 
What other ethnic groups are represented in the electoral division of Perth. 
What percentage of the total electoral population of the electoral division of Perth is of migrant origin in terms of the definition used in part ( 1 ). 
Which Federal electoral divisions have a higher migrant population concentration than that of Perth in terms of migrant population expressed as a percentage of the electoral population of the division. 
Is the definition of the persons referred to in part ( 1 ) on the basis that they were born outside Australia; if not, on what basis is the classification made. 
Does the classification include Australian-born children of persons born outside Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Under what circumstances can a person be denied a passport. 
) What requirements must be satisfied before a person is denied a passport on mental health grounds. 
Does he have discretion to refuse the issue of a passport. 
If so, has it been used in the past and in what circumstances was it used. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 March 1977: 
1 ) What is the estimated number of abortions carried out in Australia each year. 
How many were carried out in 1976. 
Of these, what approximate percentage were performed for medical reasons. 
What justification is now required before a doctor can perform an abortion. 
What was the cost to Medibank and Private Health Funds in the financing of abortions in 1 976. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security aware that the income limits to determine eligibility for pensioner fringe benefits have not changed since 1969? Is he also aware that this has led to a situation in which some people receiving a part pension may lose more in fringe benefit value than they receive from any increase in the basic pension? Is he aware that some pensioners are therefore inquiring about their rights to refuse a pen.sion increase? Will the Minister investigate this anomalous situation? Does he agree that the overall circumstances of pensioners should be determined more by changes in basic pension levels than by a lack of change in fringe benefit eligibility? 
-My grievance today relates to matters brought to my attention by some of my constituents. These constituents, who originally came from Yugoslavia, are most concerned about the activities of the Yugoslav Consul in Perth, the details of which I will outline shortly. I want to say at the outset that I cannot vouch for all the information I have received. Some of the evidence either has been destroyed or withheld by certain individuals, because I am informed, of fear of retribution. But the information which has been conveyed to me comes from several sources which I consider to be sufficient reliable and is so serious as to impose upon me a responsibility to relate these charges to the Parliament. One of the men who has made these allegations is the Archpriest of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Western Australia. I hope that by bringing this matter to the attention of the House and the public I will be able in some way to help to eradicate such practices in the future. 
In short, I am concerned that certain Australian citizens who originally came from Yugoslavia are being intimidated and have had their individual freedoms interfered with by a consular representative from another country. I will outline some of the allegations which have been made. Firstly, a number of migrants associated with this church- the Serbian Orthodox Church- decided to form a soccer club. The club, I am informed, was small and had only about 30 active members. The Archpriest informed me that each member of this club received a letter from the consul stating that the club was formed without the approval of the consulate. They were told that the club was seen to be anit-government-- that is, anti-Tito- and that they should bear in mind the possible consequences of their continued membership of this club should they return to Yugoslavia. These letters were signed by the consul. I emphasise again that I have tried to obtain a copy of this letter but with no success. Needless to say, the soccer club has been disbanded. 
I am also informed that members of this community attending the Serbian Orthodox Church were told that continued membership of this church might have adverse consequences for their relatives in Yugoslavia. Church members, when applying to the consul for visas, are asked if they are connected with the church and are asked to provide the names of others associated with the church. A number of these peoplesome 20 to 30-have stopped attending this church to protect their own safety and that of their relatives in Yugoslavia. Some continue to donate money to the church but this in now done on an anonymous basis. The Australian citizenship of these people is not recognised by the consulate. Those who wish to renounce their citizenship of Yugoslavia are required to renounce their country in the presence of the consul or his representative. In a number of cases in other parts of Australia, letters forwarded to the consul seeking to renounce former citizenship simply are not answered. 
When wishing to travel to Yugoslavia on an Australian passport many of these peopleAustralian citizens- are informed by the consulate that they do not need an Australian passport because they are citizens of Yugoslavia and should therefore travel on Yugoslavian passports. When these people do renounce their former citizenship in the presence of consulate officials- this happens only rarely- they encounter further troubles. One lady in Perth who took this step, because she was a naturalised Australian and wanted to travel to Yugoslavia as an Australian, has waited in vain for 18 months to receive a visa. Despite her constant attempts to obtain one, she is still waiting. When a former Yugoslav citizen travels to Yugoslavia on an Australian passport, I am informed by the Archpriest that it is necessary to establish contact with the police in Yugoslavia. Those who have returned from trips on this basis have informed their church leader in Perth that they are questioned and followed during their visits. They are questioned by the secret police about the anti-communist activities of some Yugoslavs living in Perth. 
These are just some of the allegations made by some of my constituents. I bring them to the attention of the House because I find it incredible that Australian citizens living in Australia and ostensibly enjoying the individual freedoms which that citizenship conveys, including the right of free association, the right of assembly and the right to practise one's religion, are having their rights interfered with by the consular officials of another country. Australia is a free country, Perth is a free city and all our citizens are free. I am amazed that activities such as those I have outlined are alleged to have been undertaken in our society. 
I think it is appropriate in this context that I should quote from a publication entitled  The Review of International Affairs  dated November 1 976 which is published periodically in Belgrade for the Socialist Alliance of Working People. The article I will quote from was written by  Mr Dolanc  who is Secretary of the Executive Committee of the Presidency of the Central Committee of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia. The article has an intriguing title -  Conclusions concerning the social organisation of Yugoslav citizens temporarily employed abroad and the tasks ahead'. I should mention that all Yugoslav migrants are regarded as 
Yugoslav citizens temporarily employed abroad. It is anticipated that they will return to Yugoslavia and this terminology explains, firstly, why consular officials are not happy about such migrants seeking only Australian citizenship, and, secondly, it provides such authorities with the authority they require to interfere with these citizens abroad, particularly those who do not follow the wishes of the Government of Yugoslavia.  Mr Dolanc  states in the article: 
The Presidency notes that the organisation of clubs, societies and other forms of association by Yugoslav citizens abroad has arisen from their needs and interests, that it has reached an important level and strongly fosters their ties with the homeland, patriotism, successful social protection - 
And I emphasise this - resistance to assimilation and other negative influences. 
He also speaks of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia and the Socialist Alliance as representing 'the basis of our socio-political activities connected with citizens temporarily employed abroad*. In addition, he indicates in the article that embassies and consulates and cultural and information centres should take an active part in carrying out these obligations, one of which is the need to provide backing and assistance to those forms of association overseas whose work is in line with 'our socio-political realities'. 
When statements of policy such as these are placed in the context of my earlier remarks, I am afraid that I notice a rather disturbing correlation. It seems that the objectives and obligations referred to by  Mr Dolanc  are being directed against those former citizens of Yugoslavia who live in Australia and who wish to renounce their former citizenship and become Australian citizens. In many cases they have come to Australia because they want to enjoy the privileges and individual freedoms which life in Australia can offer them. Many of them do not want to be citizens of both countries. Those Yugoslavs in Australia who wish to maintain dual citizenship rights can do so. I have no quarrel with that It is their right so to choose. But I do suggest that those who express the wish to become and who do become solely Australian citizens should not be intimidated or in any way have their individual freedoms interfered with by any consular official from any country. It is against the whole spirit of our nation. 
As I said at the outset, I am very conscious of the fact that I cannot produce hard evidence to support some of these claims. Allegations such as these are always difficult to substantiate, but because I consider my sources of information to be sufficiently reliable- they include a responsible church leader- and because I regard these allegations as being of an extremely serious nature, I feel that it is my duty to bring them to the attention of the Parliament in order to protect not only my constituents who have raised this matter with me but also any people from other countries who have decided to make Australia their home and might be subjected to the same kind of treatment. I stress that this is not a question of backing any faction; it is one of backing human rights. It is my hope that, by my bringing these matters to the attention of the House, these practices, if they occur, will be eliminated. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  to undertake a full investigation of all the matters I have raised in this debate. 
I notice that the  Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory,  Senator Bonner,  is presently in the chamber. I think it is appropriate for me at this stage to say to  Senator Bonner  that I feel he discharged his duties as  Chairman  of this Committee in a very responsible way. I think the Parliament is indebted to him for that work. I am very pleased to be associated with the report but I am disappointed with certain aspects of the dissenting report of the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  Part (a) of the dissenting report states: 
. that due to restraints in time a properly prepared final draft of the Report has not been circulated to members for their considered response before presentation to the Parliament. 
In my opinion this reflects adversely, and in an unwarranted way, on the service provided to the Committee by the secretariat and, in particular, on the two men closely associated with the Committee. In my view these gentlemen should be congratulated for getting this report prepared for the Parliament in such a short time, particularly as they were subjected to very serious and inconvenient time constraints. I feel- I know that all members of the Committee will agree with methat these gentlemen worked extremely efficiently and in a very thoughtful and cooperative manner. The logistics of the exercise were known to the honourable gentlemen some time ago and they did not object then. On 4 May 1 977 all members were informed in an agenda paper that as the report had to be tabled in the Parliament by 1 8 August and as its printing would take approximately three weeks, it would need to be cleared by the Committee before 28 July. The secretariat therefore proposed that a meeting to clear the report should commence in Canberra on Tuesday, 26 July, at the latest. Notice of this meeting was given to members in May. Because this date was not convenient to some members of the Committee all members, including the two honourable members opposite, agreed to the meeting being held on 28 and 29 July. This agreement was reached early in June and all honourable members were informed. No objections to this time schedule were made. The constraints on printing time were known to all members of the Committee at that time. 
I submit, therefore, that the honourable gentlemen had the opportunity to take the action they required in paragraph ( a) of their dissenting report very early in the piece. They did not do so. 
I comment briefly on paragraph (b) of the dissenting report relating to paragraph 129 of the report which relates to the entry to seas adjoining Aboriginal land. The dissenters state that the recommendation of the Committee in this regard represents a departure from the spirit and intention of the Woodward Commission's recommendations. I refute this. I say to the honourable gentlemen that Woodward's recommendations on the 2 kilometre limit was not based so much on the sanctity of the sea, but rather on the need to protect traditional fishing rights and the need to establish a buffer zone of sea in order to preserve the privacy of Aboriginal land. In this respect the Committee noted that at present fishing and other seafood gathering by Aborigines was not adversely affected by nonAborigines. 
The Committee also noted that the concept of a buffer zone to protect the privacy of coastal Aboriginal people could be ineffective. The Committee noted that because of the isolation of the area few non-Aborigines would enter the seas adjoining Aboriginal land anyway. In my view this section of the report does not reduce Aboriginal rights in respect of Aboriginal land. What it does is protect the rights of all people in the Northern Territory. We should realise that we are talking here about 81 per cent of the total coastline of the Northern Territory. The Committee was obliged to consider the rights of all people. It should be remembered that the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act was drawn in order to preserve existing rights and usages. The provisions relating to mining are the most obvious example of this. Of course, there are existing fishing licences. Also, there is ample evidence of substantial recreational use of the waters near the larger centres of non-Aboriginal population. 
I think the Committee has attained a sensible position in this very sensitive area. Aboriginal rights have been and will be protected through the appropriate land council. I believe that all recommendations contained in paragraph 129 of the report quite adequately protect the rights of traditional owners in this regard. I also reject the third item of dissent by the honourable members for Wills and Hughes. I do not think that this recommendation, that is to establish a committee to further inquire into the Land Rights Act, in any way presupposes the inability of the Minister to administer the Act effectively. This is what those honourable gentlemen contend. If they are to be consistent, they should level the same charge against the present Committee. The need for an ongoing review does exist, primarily because the Northern Territory complementary legislation which we were charged to investigate originally, has not yet been finalised. I also suggest that the Committee should again be a committee of the Parliament and not just of the House of Representatives. The present House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs is fully occupied with two very substantial references from the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  I think the suggestion by the honourable gentlemen greatly understates the role played by our senatorial colleagues in preparing the present report. They have built up substantial expertise in this field which should not now be lost to the Parliament. 
I also comment on the lone protest made by the genial giant of the Parliament, the honourable member for Wills who, I think, has done the cause of land rights a disservice by castigating the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly in such strong terms. He seems to proceed on the fallacious assumption that all wisdom resides in Canberra. I think that by registering this protest the honourable member has ignored the fact that the Joint Select Committee on Aboriginal Land Rights in the Northern Territory in its report, after a proper investigation, has constructively criticised the complementary legislation of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. 
More importantly, he has ignored the very real efforts the Assembly has made to modify and improve its original legislation and the conciliatory approach it has adopted in respect of many very significant areas of the report. By making this protest, he has run the risk of creating greater friction between the Assembly and the Aboriginal people at a time when the Assembly has made genuine attempts to improve its complementary land rights legislation in favour of the Aboriginal people. If this protest helps to diminish the confidence of the Aboriginal people in their legislature, the long term effects may be very serious indeed. More importantly, it should be noted that the honourable member's protest is outside the Committee's terms of reference. We were not asked to comment on whether the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should introduce complementary legislation. We were asked to comment on the suitability of such legislation. That concludes my comments on the dissenting report by the honourable gentlemen opposite. 
I would like to make briefly some general points relating to the inquiry by the Select Committee. In general, during my visits to Aboriginal communities I found that traditional owners, whilst happy to have land rights, did not really see the significance of the legislation. After all, they know their own traditional land and have always regarded it as theirs, anyhow. This Act is really only giving a piece of paper or white man's legitimacy to what they have always regarded as their own land. There is no dispute in this area. The Aboriginal expectation has been raised, to the extent that he wants to know what the legislation means to him over and above the formality of receiving land rights. In most cases I have found that Aboriginals now expect to move to their traditional land and to enjoy the same facilities as they now have in the major settlements. I simply draw this to the attention of the House because that is the Aboriginal expectation in the areas I visited and it has very substantial long term implications for government policy and very substantial monetary implications. 
Another matter I want to raise concerns the problems which may confront Aboriginal communities at present living in settlements which are not located near their traditional land and which in fact belong to other Aboriginal groups. I refer to those Aboriginals presently living in places such as Areyonga and Jay Creek. For example, the Aboriginals now living at Areyonga have their traditional land at Docker River, but they no longer have any close affiliation to that land and, in fact, have completely dissociated themselves from it. They have lived at Areyonga, which is the traditional land of Aboriginal people now living at Hermannsburg, for some 40 years. Their children have been born there and many of their people have been buried there. They regard Areyonga as their home. I am concerned about what might happen should the traditional owners decide to move to Areyonga in these circumstances. Of course, this could well take place if mining developments proceed in this area. There are a number of instances such as this and I am concerned that the strong emphasis on traditional ownership might well lead to there being many displaced Aboriginals in certain instances and might create tensions between traditional owners and other Aboriginals which did not exist previously. 
I would like also to raise the question of who will advise Aboriginal traditional owners about the pros and cons of mining on their land. In my opinion, such advice should be independent and balanced. These communities have the right to know of the direct benefits they might receive from mining ventures rather than just to hear of the disadvantages. I am not saying that mineral producers should advise them; but equally I am not saying that they should be advised by conservationists or even by the land councils. I tend to the view that such advice should come perhaps from an independent government agency such as the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
There is one remaining point I would like to mention, namely, the possibility of creating additional land councils. In my view, this may create a number of difficulties. The number of bodies interposed between the traditional owners and their land should be kept to a minimum. This is necessary because the traditional owners see themselves as being the sole decision makers in matters concerning the use of their land. It is difficult enough to get them to accept the need for the existing land councils, let alone the need to establish new ones. This may also open up the possibility of non-traditional owners gaining control of smaller councils; but I think the main objection is that it would be logistically and financially difficult to service these bodies with the necessary personnel- personnel with expertise in anthropology, the law and so forth. 
In conclusion, I wish to say that the Committee has been very thorough in its inquiry under the terms of reference. It has visited 16 settlements and taken evidence from 65 witnesses. All in all, I think that the report will do much to ensure the effective implementation of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act. I commend the report to the House. 
I am pleased to support the Budget and I shall discuss some of the economic strategic aspects of it. I say at the outset that I support the basic strategy of the Government to control inflation, to reduce the deficit, to reduce taxes and government spending and to create the preconditions for a fall in interest rates. I certainly endorse the strategy adopted by the Government to protect the Budget vote which is apportioned to disadvantaged groups in our society. I must say that I deplore the attempts by the Opposition to preach gloom and despair. Members of the Opposition seem to have a vested interest in this kind of attitude. They totally misunderstand the basic strategy of the Government and its economic achievements since it came to office. I shall list some of these. The inflation rate has been substantially reduced. In the 12 months to the June quarter 1977 the underlying rate was 10.2 per cent per annum compared with 15.4 per cent in 1975-76. This is a very significant improvement. 
My colleague the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  a man whose opinion I respect in economic matters, yesterday issued a statement based on the latest quarterly estimates of national income and expenditure. He statedI agree with him- that on the basis of these latest figures single-digit inflation by June 1977 has been attained on a yearly basis. He went on to say that the implicit price deflator for expenditure on gross domestic product was 9.4 per cent. Without allowing for the increase in stocks and the statistical discrepancy the June 1977 on June 1976 increase was 9.13 per cent. As the implicit price deflator has been leading the consumer price index down over the last half year the latest national accounts foreshadow the best results for price stability for many years. I think that is really a very significant improvement in the key economic indicator in Australia at this time. Of course, we are criticised by the Opposition for the level of unemployment which presently prevails. We accept that the level is too high. But I think we should keep this matter in some kind of perspective. 
Under the Labor Government unemployment rose by 126 per cent. Under the present Government the level of unemployment has risen by less than one per cent I cite those figures simply to suggest that the Opposition should not become too sanctimonious about this problem. The present Government is very concerned about the magnitude of the matter. That is why the control of inflation and of Australia's cost structure is being given top priority. Also, during 1976-77 real gross non-farm product increased, productivity increased, company profitability increased and there were substantial improvements in business and dwelling investment. All these key indicators reflect the improved economic performance of this country during 1976-77 when compared with the performance of the previous Government. But of course we have a long way to go. We accept that. 
The Government's strategy to achieve its economic objectives is very well known. It was disappointing therefore after studying the speech on the Budget of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to find that the Opposition still has not come to grips with a proper economic strategy of its own. In reading the speech of the Leader of the Opposition I was disappointed to find that it was not until I had read nearly 14 columns of  Hansard  that I found he came forward with a suggestion as to what his Party would do to ovecome Australia 's economic problems. I was even more disturbed to find that his suggestion was to further increase government expenditure. An increase in government expenditure of itself need not be a bad thing. It depends on how it is done and whether it has severe implications for the deficit. From the speech of the Leader of the Opposition it seems clear to me that by implication the Opposition is again recommending larger deficits, higher taxes, higher interest rates and all the adverse consequences which such factors bring to the economy such as rampant inflation and high unemployment. 
I remember  Mr Pierre  Schweizer, the former head of the International Monetary Fund, stating as far back as the mid-1960s that this kind of strategy, which was so damaging to domestic and external currency stability, was almost inevitable in the industrial democracies of the Western world.  His  assumptions were very simple. Because governments wanted to stay in office and because opposition wanted to get into office, each political force promised all things to all men. There were constant promises of higher government spending, or lower taxes, or both. In other words the economic price of power was constantly being increased. To some extent this is presently the case in Australia. Certainly that is so with the Opposition. Again the economy will pay the price under the proposals of the Opposition. Again it is advocating increasing expenditure and increasing the size of the deficit, therefore suggesting that lower unemployment can be purchased at the expense of higher inflation. Pump priming of the kind envisaged no longer has the effect it had in the 1960s. The Opposition again fails to realise that this kind of trade-off does not apply when high levels of inflation and high levels of unemployment co-exist. They are not alternatives. There is a real causal relationship between the two which makes it imperative to overcome inflation if unemployment is to be cured. 
The strategy of any budget in present times, if inflation and unemployment are to be tackled together, surely should be to exercise restraint on both the revenue and expenditure sides. One should have regard not only to the size but also to the nature of the deficit. The cumulative effects of large deficits in recent years has simply meant that money markets have been strained to the limit and that additional money has been printed by the presses of the government. One does not have to be a professor of economics to realise that too much money, chasing too few goods, creates an intolerable domestic price instability. This Government has made very substantial efforts to reduce the deficit from the record levels found in the Labor Government's Budgets. But the deficit is still a problem. It is still too large. The Government should consider the nature and the timing of deficit changes. 
In different circumstances I think it would be possible to put the view that more restraint could have been exercised on the revenue side of this Budget. After all, tax indexation has already provided substantial benefits. Such action could have brought the deficit to less than $2 billion and established the necessary prerequisites for very substantial interest rate reductions later in the year. It could also have provided for other substantial expansionary policies next year. That was one possible long term strategy to overcome our present unemployment problem. However, the fact is that the Labor Government created such impossible tax burdens for all Australians that short term relief became imperative on noneconomic grounds. I am appalled that the Opposition seeks to decry the very substantial and revolutionary tax reforms introduced by this Government, especially as such reforms, in proportionate terms, will assist lower income families more than higher income families. I think the Opposition's criticism of this Government for its tax reforms is quite incredible when one considers that the Opposition, when in government, increased income tax collections by some 90 per cent 
In view of the fact that the Government had no option but to suffer a reduction in its ability to reduce the deficit further by introducing these taxation concessions, in my opinion the Government has done very well to reduce the deficit by as much as it has since it came to office. There is no question that this is a very important economic commitment which the Government has had to make. Regarding the structure of the deficit, I suggest that the Government needs to keep its options open and should not become too doctrinaire regarding possible changes of emphasis in the composition of the deficit. I think that future restraint should be exercised more heavily on transfer payments, by adhering to the principle that resources in the welfare area should be more heavily concentrated on areas of need. This does not necessarily mean a further reduction in the deficit, but rather a change of emphasis to provide future scope for some capital expenditure as the rate of inflation is further reduced and as the Government has more expansionary options open to it in the context of its basic strategy. 
The deficit should continue to be strictly controlled, certainly, because of the monetary implications of failing to do so. Its composition may be able to be changed in a way which would facilitate expenditure in areas with greater income- multiplier effects such as capital works. On the other hand, the Opposition adopts much more simplistic and dangerous view. It advocates increased capital spending at the cost of increasing the deficit, thereby maintaining high interest rates- a view totally incompatible with noninflationary economic growth. What I am saying is that the Budget strategy is the proper strategy for the present time. By keeping its options open in the way I have suggested, the effect of the inevitable move to lower interest rates which this Government has encouraged by responsible budgetary management will be further supported by the stimulatory effects of the tax cuts which the Government has introduced. I say this because the stimulatory effects of the tax cuts will occur only if consumers can have their employment expectations secured. It has become abundantly clear in recent times that consumer spending habits depend not only on inflationary expectations but also on employment prospects. For this reason it is important for the Government not to discard the possibility of following more expansionary fiscal policies in order to continue its stimulus to the private sector. There is certainly a capacity for the economy to absorb mild expansion without placing pressures on inflation. 
Taxes in Australia have certainly been too high in the recent past. Tax cuts, justifiable on equity and welfare grounds, will not have their desired expansionary impact on the economy unless two things happen. Firstly, the tax cuts must be seen as providing a trade-off against further money wage increases. Quite clearly the labour market will not improve if the price of labour continues to outstrip the productivity of labour. Until real wage costs decrease, budgetary stimulus will not improve the unemployment situation. Secondly, the Government must realise that this factor is interrelated with consumer spending habits. The productivity of the existing labour force will not increase unless there is scope for overall production increases. That is quite natural. The tax cuts will not result automatically in increased consumption expenditure unless members of the public can assess their job prospects as being secure. This is largely dependent upon confidence in the private sector. We should remember very clearly that although disposable incomes rose under Labor in 1974 there was no comparable increase in consumer spending, as we might expect during times of high rates of inflation. This was clearly due to the fact that people realised that their job security as well as their real wages were threatened by high inflation rates. 
Therefore confidence is the key. The tax cuts will have a stimulatory effect, if the Government, as a result of its budgetary management, moves towards a substantial lowering of interest rates- if this can be accompanied either late this year or early next year by some fiscal expansionthere would be a capacity to increase consumer and business confidence by providing non-inflationary growth. I simply reiterate my earlier point. The Government has a justifiable concern at containing the level of the deficit. It must not underestimate the scope for expansion which can come from changing the nature of the deficit by applying a more rational distribution of government resources. After all, we are confronted basically with a cost inflation situation, not demand inflation. 
I would like to spend my remaining time discussing some of the welfare aspects of this Budget. At all times this Government has ensured that although tough decisions must be taken to reduce the rate of inflation the burden of such decisions would not be borne by disadvantaged sections of the community. In the area of welfare this Government has a fine record. Firstly, its objective of reducing the inflation rate has very substantial advantageous welfare implications for pensioners and all elderly, retired people. There are other more direct ways in which this Government has protected disadvantaged groups through its welfare programs. In the Budget last year the handicapped children's allowance was increased by 50 per cent to $15 a week. The handicapped children's benefit, payable in respect of handicapped children in institutions, was increased by more than 40 per cent to $5 a day. In the present Budget special assistance for handicapped people will rise by 33 per cent. That is achieved by providing income support of up to $ 1 5 a week for parents or guardians of handicapped children. 
This Government is the first government ever to guarantee the preservation of the value of pensions and benefits, by adjusting them automatically every six months in line with changes in the consumer price index. In November, as a result of this initiative, the standard rate of social service pensions and benefits will rise to $49.30 a week, which means that the standard pension rate will have increased by 27 per cent since this Government took office. The Government has undertaken three-year programs for the funding of aged persons homes and senior citizens centres at levels of funding much higher than that provided by the previous Government. In all these ways- together with other initiatives such as the family allowances scheme and the increase in the tax threshold, which will relieve many pensioners from the burden of paying taxation which was imposed on them by the previous Government- this Government has demonstrated its concern for the disadvantaged groups in society and has made sure that the cost of reducing the inflation rate will not fall on those groups who suffer mostly from the effects of inflation. 
There are two areas in the welfare field which concern me particularly and on which I urge the Government to take action. Firstly I refer to the need for income support for supporting fathers, equivalent to that provided for supporting mothers. I have already raised this matter in the Parliament and made representations to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in my attempts to have this anomaly rectified. The issue does not need elaboration because I know the Minister is aware of the problems of supporting fathers and is anxious to assist them as soon as circumstances permit. I simply say that this is a major anomaly in our welfare system. Society is prepared to act as a breadwinner in a fatherless house but is not prepared to finance adequately a household in which the father is required to give up his normal working duties to assume a dual parental role to keep his family together. 
The other welfare matter relates to the problems experienced by some pensioners who are in receipt of a part pension and some additional income, whether it is derived from superannuation or from some other source, and who are entitled to receive certain fringe benefits. These fringe benefits are payable to pensioners whose other income is below $33 a week for a single pensioner or $57.50 a week for a married pensioner. Depending on the individual circumstances of each pensioner, fringe benefits can represent a very sizable addition to real income. In some cases, for example the frail aged who require frequent or continuous medical care and medication, the value of the fringe benefits may actually exceed the value of the pension. 
These income limits have not changed since 1969. In the face of the increasing number of pensioners and the costs involved, and in order to maintain equity between pensioners and other non-pension low income groups, the previous Government decided in 1973 to freeze the then current income limits upon eligibility for fringe benefits. Because this eligibility for fringe benefits ceases completely at a specific income point, inequity arises in the sense that pensioners whose incomes were very close to the disqualifying limit can receive a superannuation increase which takes them past the limit and therefore lose fringe benefits which may be of greater value than their basic income increase. As long as fringe benefit eligibility is not tapered in the way that eligibility for the pension is, this sort of problem will arise for some pensioners each time there is a basic income increase. 
Many thousands of pensioners who have sufficient other income from private superannuation payments to put them near the upper limits and who still receive fringe benefits may find themselves taken beyond those limits if their particular superannuation fund incorporates the indexation of benefits. Some sort of tapered fringe benefits test might reduce the inequities of the present scheme, but it would be difficult to devise and administer a scheme which tapered eligibility to services rather than cash, as is the case with pension eligibility. The services offered represent different values to different pensioners. 
So there are difficulties in rectifying this anomaly. Perhaps the only way of doing it effectively would be to replace fringe benefits with an income tested supplement to the basic pension. I am not suggesting that this is necessarily the answer or that now is the right time to implement a remedy. I simply want to draw the Government's attention to this problem. It is probably the most important deficiency in our present pension system. At the moment, because of this problem many pensioners are having their welfare determined less by changes in their basic income levels and more by the absence of change in their entitlement to fringe benefits. I consider this situation to be quite wrong in principle. In practice, it is placing many pensioners at a considerable disadvantage. I should like the Government to address itself to this problem. 
I support fully the economic strategy of the Government. I think the results achieved last year will continue to improve in the next year. I certainly regard the control of inflation and the Budget deficit as the major areas which this Government has to attack in improving the economy. I support the Budget wholeheartedly. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
Is it a generally accepted fact that Aboriginals in Australia have poorer health, education, employment and other welfare prospects than non-Aboriginal Australians. 
Is it also a fact that official demographic, health, and social statistics collected by the Government do not in any way distinguish between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. 
If so, is he able to say whether this method of collecting and collating vital statistical information is justified on the basis that the use of separate official statistics for Aboriginals is regarded as discriminatory. 
Did the First Report of the National Population Inquiry report that, without separate statistics, problem areas of the Aboriginal population are difficult to identify and for this reason it could be argued that lack of separate statistics is discriminatory. 
5 ) Did the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs concerning the Alcohol Problems of Aboriginals in the Northern Territory indicate that in some areas there is a lack of accurate information about Aboriginals regarding matters such as health, employment, education, sources of income and patterns of expenditure. 
Did the Interim Report contain a recommendation suggesting that detailed and accurate statistics be maintained on a regular and continuing basis on Aboriginal settlements. 
If so, does a similar need exist for all Aboriginals, whether they live in settlements, or in, or on, the fringes of larger centres of population. 
Did the Hospitals and Health Services Commission in its report 'Rural Health in Australia' also stress the importance of establishing adequate statistics for Aboriginals on a national collection system. 
Has he made, or does he intend to make, any recommendation to the Government regarding the separate collection of vital statistics, on a national basis, for Aboriginals. 
10) If he has taken action in this matter, what decisions have been taken to date. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports stating that there are waiting periods of 12 months for pensioners, and 3 to 4 months for children, before they can have their hearing tested at the Commonwealth Acoustics Laboratory in Penh. 
If so, is there any substance in the allegations and what is the reason for the delays. 
3 ) What is the position in other capital cities of Australia. 
What action does he propose to take to rectify the situation. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether the economic pre-conditions for a further drop in interest rates have yet been established by the Government? If not, what remains the biggest obstacle to a further fall in interest rates in 1978? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Government any intention of according de jure recognition to the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics? Is the Minister aware of concern being expressed by members of the Baltic communities in Australia that the Labor Party has not changed its attitude in regard to de jure recognition? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) Did he say in answer to my question without notice on 30 May 1977  (Hansard,  page 2097), regarding child care programs, that a number of research studies have been funded in previous years under the Children's Services Program, some of them relating to psycho-social development of children; if so, which of these studies researched the matter raised in my question. 
Have any of these studies confirmed the findings of certain prominent British psychiatrists who have found that children under the age of 3 years and who constantly lose the care of their mothers through hospitalisation or regular attendance at child care institutions, suffer long term psychological and emotional damage. 
If no similar studies have been undertaken in Australia, will the Minister for Social Security give consideration to funding this research. 
-On occasions such as this when we have a general debate before the House, I always try to make some constructive suggestions to the Government about the direction of its economic policies or its social welfare policies. One does not have to be a member of this chamber for long to learn that speeches made here, however brilliant we may think they are, are of very limited value. That is why at all times there are not too many members in the House. Speeches made in here may have some value as political propaganda or for distribution to interested parties in our electorates, but they have little or no influence on government and I am sure are never read by Ministers. Really, it is an act of futility. The  Hansard  reporters are the only ones who have to sit here and listen to us. They make sure that our speeches become instant history. 
If private members want to wield any influence in Canberra they have to do it outside the Parliament. They have to do it in Ministers offices, in their respective party rooms and, perhaps, sometimes on back bench committees. For that reason I want to use this debate to put forward a few views on the present role of Parliament, particularly of this chamber, and some suggestions for resurrecting the proper functions of the Parliament. I would like to speak about a particular sentence in the Governor-General's address which many members of this House might regard as being rather insignificant. The sentence was: 
Further development of the parliamentary committee system will be promoted and parliamentary scrutiny of the Executive will be enhanced by introducing legislation enabling the Auditor-General to conduct efficiency audits and report to Parliament thereon. 
To me, this was one of the most significant sentences in the whole Speech. It raises the question of the effectiveness of this Parliament and its place in our democratic system of government. In particular, it raises the question of the relationship of the Parliament to the Executive arm of government. 
I am very pleased that a number of members have decided to embrace this subject in the debate. The honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates),  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  all referred to the need to enhance the role of the institution of Parliament. Regrettably, the major reforms of Parliament in recent years have been made in the Senate and not in the people 's House. Even last week some very notable contributions were made in the Senate.  Senator Chaney  put forward views on how further reforms should be instigated in the chamber. If senators still consider their chamber is in need of reform, how much further down the road do we have to go? I think that question was well answered by Professor Reid in an address to the 1978 Summer School of the Australian Institute of Political Science in January this year. Professor Reid is Professor of Politics at the University of Western Australia. I think of more significance is the fact that he was once an officer of this House. One could properly assume that he has a very positive view of the role that this House could and should have in the parliamentary process and in the process of democratic government. He said: . . . that the elected Parliament is a weak and weakening institution; that the Executive Government is the principal beneficiary of the Parliament's decline; and that the Judiciary is tending to compete with the Executive Government in exploiting the Parliament's weakness but it is having its own independence undermined through the initiatives of the Executive Government. 
He also said: 
The relative decline in the significance of Parliament has been evident for many years. The reasons are complex but they relate mainly to the Parliament's lack of supporters (particularly in Canberra) and the lack of people or groups in Australia who will work towards its rehabilitation. 
When he referred to a lack of supporters in Canberra, I am not quite sure to whom he was referring. Perhaps it was the public servants. Perhaps he was also referring to the fact that members of Parliament, particularly members of this House, have done little to enhance the reputation of this place or to promote the reforms necessary to strengthen the institution of Parliament. Professor Reid also said: 
The problems of Parliament also arise from its inherent division; not only is it divided by the federal Constitution into two nominally powerful, and often conflicting, Houses: Each constituent House accommodates competing factionseach of which is usually divided between leaders and led. In addition, it is to the Parliament's disadvantage that its official secretariat is fragmented into even more parts than the Parliament itself; and, following the Westminster-style of government, both Houses grant important priorities in debate and decision-making to Executive Ministers of State. The outcome has been that the more numerous of the two Houses- the House of Representatives- has become the captive of the Executive Government of the day and is now a sadly repressed and debilitated parliamentary chamber. 
That is the situation according to Professor Reid. Sadly, what he says is quite correct, particularly his reference to the House of Representatives. All it is at the moment is a talking shop. Certainly, that has its uses but surely it is not the dominant function of this House. It is too well known to all of us that bus drivers who unload tourists into this place during the course of the year tell their charges that they are about to enter the only free circus in Australia. That is a very sad comment. 
But I think it is one that has almost universal acceptance by the public at large. 
I believe that the parliamentary aspect of democratic government should be dignified. If it is not, it will receive no respect; and, if it does not receive respect, one day it might not even exist. I believe that it will receive that respect only if it is seen to be a useful institution and it will be useful only if the Executive arm of the government respects it and allows it to perform as it is meant to perform. Once again, Professor Reid makes quite a relevant comment in this regard. He says: 
If as a nation we are concerned about the declining reputation of our politicians and of the political processes we should ask ourselves whether the state of our Parliament has any influence on this condition. I believe it has. It is not that our parliamentarians are undignified, it is that the parliamentary-Executive relationship is such. By stripping our rank and file politicians of continuing responsibility in Parliament, particularly in the House of Representatives, the proceedings have degenerated into a continuous and elementary election campaign. Subtlety, diplomacy and verbal dexterity in Parliament will only develop in the context of parliamentary responsibility, not with parliamentary impotence. 
If we fail to restore the power of this institution, I feel that we might as well forget about all our grandiose plans for a new and permanent Parliament House. All we will need is a room big enough to accommodate comfortably about 27 Ministers. 
I am not saying that we do not need an Executive. Of course we do. We all accept this. I am not saying that the Executive and the Parliament should be locked in some kind of eternal conflict. But what I am saying is that a more powerful Parliament with better equipped members of Parliament should be able to improve government in Australia, thereby working in a cooperative and constructive manner with the Executive. In my opinion, we can achieve very necessary reforms in the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive with some very obvious changes. It is in this chamber that the reforms are most needed. First of all, parliamentarians need better facilities. I think that instead of always asking for higher salaries, perhaps we should ask for the things which will help us to do our jobs better. One of the things we need most to enable us to perform better as parliamentarians is staff. 
I will give honourable members a few facts to support that contention. In 1 978, the Parliament had 188 members. The country has a national population of 14.1 million people. In 1949, there were 181 members- only 7 members less than the present Parliament- and the population of Australia was 8,000,000 people. Although the population has increased by 75 per cent the number of elected representatives has hardly increased at all. The implications of this on the electoral load carried by present day members of the House of Representatives compared with the electoral load of members in 1949 is quite obvious. If we as members are submerged by the effort of effectively looking after the needs of some 70,000 electors and perhaps an electorate of 100,000 people and and have only one secretary and one assistant to help us, how can we make an effective contribution to parliamentary matters, even if we had any power to monitor the Executive in this place? Perhaps this is one reason why the Senate has been able to devote more time to reforming its procedures. Our members may not have had the time. Our staff needs in this regard should be considered separately from the needs of senators. Although they work very hard, I sometimes doubt whether some of them would know a constituent if they tripped over one. 
More importantly, why has the method of the operation of this House barely changed from Federation. Professor Reid makes this further point at the bottom of the fourth page of his speech. It is quite a lengthy document. I commend it to all honourable members. Copies of it are available in the Parliamentary Library. He says with regard to the operations of this chamber: 
All of its legislative work is still conducted in plenary session where party contest and party discipline are strongest. 
Not one Bill in 77 years has ever been referred to a smaller committee than the Committee of the Whole for a consideration at the Committee stage. The Senate has created the Regulations and Ordinances Committee. This has been operating for about 46 years. I would like to know why this chamber cannot do the same. Why should such a Committee confine its attention to subordinate legislation? I think that we should have a very serious look at this question. Why do we not have a series of legislative and general purpose standing committees such as those which operate in the Senate. Ours are too few and they are far to specific. We have heard the names of some of them being read out in the chamber tonight. A better use of the standing committees surely would enhance the status and effectiveness of this chamber as a legislative body with proposed laws being referred to these committees for inquiry and report. 
In my short time in this place, I have worked on both a standing committee of this House and on a joint select committee. There is no doubt in my mind that away from the political diatribe of full plenary sessions of this House these committees respond more to principle and sound argument than they do to dogma and partisan politics. In these ways the procedures of this House should be changed in order to permit it to exercise its proper legislative function. 
I refer also to our Estimates debates which we have every September. At present, these are nothing more or less than set piece second reading speeches. The only matters they never cover are the estimates of the departments under consideration. Surely this House should have estimates committees along the same lines as those used in the Senate. We are the peoples' House and therefore we, as the representatives of the people- the servants of the people- should be able to question the public servants in this chamber under public scrutiny. Surely if, as is suggested in the Governor-General's Speech, we will exercise our scrutiny of the Executive through reports of the Auditor-General, we will have to change our present procedures in this House. The fact that we have greater direct ministerial representation in this chamber should also reinforce the argument for a proper scrutiny of departmental estimates taking place in this House. 
Why should such debates be confined to government departments? This was referred to by the honourable member for Hume last night. What about the commissions and boards we established? Why should statutory authorities escape the close and regular scrutiny of this House? If we, the members of this House, can successfully move to have procedures of our chamber changed along these lines we will be able to take full advantage of the opportunity given in this part of the Governor-General's Speech to monitor properly and therefore perhaps exercise our control function over the bureaucracy and the legislation. 
I wish to deal with another procedural matter. I would like to know why we do not have the chance to question the relevant Minister immediately after a major statement is brought down in this place. I had the good fortune to be in the House of Commons last year when the Chancellor of the Exchequer brought down his mini-budget. As soon as his speech was finished, he was immediately subjected to very intense questioning from both sides of the House. The questioning was spontaneous. It sought information. It was incisive. It was basically a search for clarification rather than for the gaining of political points. We have nothing remotely resembling this kind of spontaneous debate in this chamber. I think it would be very healthy if we did. If we could look again at the proper functions of this House- its legislative and control functions- and adapt our procedures to accommodate these functions properly, perhaps this chamber would become more than a place for permanent political campaigning and would again take its rightful place in our democratic system of government. It does not mean necessarily that the Executive will take any more notice of the Parliament or of this House than it normally does; but at least we would be taking a step in the right direction. It will not be easy to get the Executive to acknowledge and to respond to our endeavours to revitalise the procedures of this House. 
Much is said about the corrupting influences of power. We all know the quotation: 'Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely'. It is a well worn dictum. I do not think it is totally relevant to this Government at this stage. What is relevant is another quotation from Oscar Wilde, who said: 'Power is wonderful, and absolute power is absolutely wonderful'. Therefore, perhaps it will be a very difficult task to arrest this very pleasant function from the Executive. It will not be easy to restore to this House and to the Parliament the functions that the Parliament should more appropriately exercise. It is up to us, the parliamentarians, to instigate proper reforms for this House before we can expect a proper response from the Executive. This is something to which we all as private members should give very serious consideration. I am very pleased that in the short life of this Parliament to date so many members of the House have chosen to embrace this topic and to express their concern about this matter in this debate on the Address-in-Reply. I hope that this momentum will be kept up so that this Parliament, and in particular this chamber, can become once again a properly functioning chamber, so that we can have independence and so that we can have the strength that is meant to be ours in the parliamentary system of democracy that we enjoy. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware that the number of aircraft movements at Perth Airport is increasing many times faster than movements at the major eastern State terminals? Is he aware of the overcrowding and inadequate facilities which presently exist at Perth 
Airport as a result of this trend? Is the Government examining the future needs of Perth Airport and, if so, when will this examination be completed and the necessary corrective work commence? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. I refer to the Treasurer's reply to the honourable member for Bonython on 1 March when he stated that the deficit, as projected in the Budget last year, would be exceeded but was being adequately financed by non-bank takeup of Government securities. In the light of these developments, can the Treasurer still assure the House that the Government's intention to reduce interest rates will be maintained? Can these two aims be achieved simultaneously? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the recent Palestine Liberation Organisation terrorist attack on Israel, will the Minister take the necessary action in the United Nations to oppose the continued presence of the PLO as an official observer to that body? Will the Minister accept that the PLO can play no constructive role in a negotiated settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict while that organisation still ceases to recognise Israel's right to exist in accordance with United Nations resolution 242? Will the Minister now accept that many of the accusations levelled against Israel at international conferences regarding its practices in occupied territories should not be regarded so much as human rights issues but as Middle East issues, recognising that Israel has been subjected to hostilities on a continuing basis for many years from neighbouring countries? Finally, in that context, will the Minister ensure that at such conferences Australia will adopt a more sympathetic attitude to Israel than has hitherto been the case? 
I wish to say a few words on this matter. I heartily endorse the Government's initiative. I was not going to speak until I heard the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  mention the problems faced by members of parliament who have to travel long distances between their electorates and this place. I congratulate the honourable member for mentioning this matter because there are many people in the eastern states who do not realise the problems that members have in travelling long distances to Canberra every week. Indeed many of our constituents are surprised to learn that we work in this place three weeks out of four weeks. They quite often do not realise that representatives of electorates in Western Australia have to travel between Perth and Canberra each week that the Parliament sits. That does impose a great burden on members. It certainly creates problems in their family life if they do not have understanding wives and children. There are other aspects to be considered. 
Other problems are involved. One is the financial consideration. I do not regard that as a prime consideration. However, the air fare to transport me to and from Canberra each week is $510- a total of $1,530 for air fares in a three-week sitting period. Under the new system of sitting two consecutive weeks, there will be a 50 per cent saving in travelling costs for all members and senators travelling between Perth and Canberra. 
The two-week sitting period will mean that we will be able to spend the intervening weekend in Canberra, devote ourselves to researching government policy and do the kind of work that often we do not have the opportunity to do when we are back in our electorates. More importantly, all the travelling that we do between Perth and Canberra is done during the day. It is done in normal working hours. It is not done in the dead of night. This travel involves about 10 hours a week. We are just sitting on our backsides in aeroplanes and are not doing constructive work. I am pleased to see that the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  acknowledges that Government policy does require close scrutiny by backbenchers at all times. 
More importantly, I think that this new proposed sitting schedule will allow members to rationalise their very limited resources much better than previously. The proposed two-week sitting and two-week non-sitting system will mean that in the two weeks members spend in Canberra they will be able to devote themselves almost entirely to their parliamentary duties and in the two weeks they spend in their electorate they will be able to devote themselves almost entirely to electorate problems and give constituents the kind of attention that hitherto we have not been able to give them. 
Under the former three-week sitting and oneweek non-sitting system we found that much of our time in Canberra was spent dealing with constituency matters because we had only one week in every four in our electorates. We found also that the one week we spent in our electorate was devoted substantially to parliamentary work. There is a saying in this place that people in Perth do not care what you do in Canberra and people in Canberra do not care what you do in Perth. Well, I think that attitude is regrettable. I hope that that kind of attitude does not prevail in the minds of honourable members. I am sure that, under the new scheme that has been proposed by the Government, each member of this House will be able to serve his electorate better and will be able better to fulfil his duties as a member of the Parliament. I congratulate the Government for bringing forward this proposal. I think this initiative is a very valuable innovation for those members of Parliament, especially all Western Australians, who have to travel so far every week. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I also am having some difficulty regarding the question of retrospectivity as involved in clause 3. Basically I wholeheartedly support the Government's decision to crack down on tax bludgers. People such as myself who have been wage and salary earners all their lives have been subsidising these people. Until now my salary always has been rather modest and I have never been in the fortunate position of having a tax problem. Generally I have found that those who have grizzled most about their tax burden were people on very high incomes who generally ended up paying very little tax. I have no sympathy for those people whose devious avoidance schemes will be axed by this legislation. They have not been paying their way and by not paying their way they have helped to destroy the equity of the whole of the taxation system. The equity of the tax system is the basis of my overall support for this legislation. There are other related issues. Proper economic and fiscal management are jeopardised by this kind of avoidance and many demands on the expenditure side of the Budget from people in real need of assistance cannot be met because some people who are in rather more fortunate circumstances are not paying their way. The supreme irony of the situation is that these people who seek to avoid tax and who complain of the high level of taxation interfere, by their own efforts, with the capacity of the Government to reduce taxes for everyone. 
This Government has a responsibility to create and maintain a fair taxation system. Certainly the Liberal Party's platform on taxation states that the rights of the taxpayers should be safeguarded by ensuring that taxation adjustments do not have a retrospective effect. I support that policy. I also agree that this part of our platform can be accommodated only if all the other aspects of the Liberal Party's taxation principles are being adhered to. It is pan of a total taxation platform which also includes a number of other clauses which are jeopardised by massive and unreasonably contrived and artificial tax avoidance schemes. The other parts of the platform state that the objectives of the Liberal Party in relation to taxation require a system in which taxation is equitable as between taxpayers in a  similar position, a system  in which the tax burden upon individuals has regard for their ability to pay and a system in which the burden of personal income tax is not excessive. Quite obviously these tax objectives cannot be achieved if there is massive tax avoidance. For that reason I support the platform of our party, which also states: 
Taxation avoidance schemes will be eliminated. 
I support that statement; we all support it. But I see all of this as requiring prompt and decisive action by government as soon as avoidance schemes are discovered. If that is done there will be no competing claims in future between the principles of retrospectivity and overall tax equity, which is how some spokesmen have defended the application of retrospectivity. Immediate action will obviate the need for retrospectivity. I gather that the justification for the application of retrospectivity in this legislation is related to the amount of revenue lost because of a particular scheme due to the lack of official action since 1974, but it has not been justified as a matter of principle and this is why I have reservations. If the question of retrospectivity involves a principle it is difficult to know where this legislature stands. The Opposition, by its amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time, has decided that the question of tax retrospectivity is a question of principle, but its supporters say that it is a good principle and they will apply it universally and consistently in avoidance cases. I do not accept that; but at least one knows where they stand on this question. 
The Government, by virtue of the Liberal Party's platform and in view of recent statements by its spokesmen, also has decided that the question of tax retrospectivity is a question of principle. However, we say that it is a bad principle, although it can be used occasionally. Therefore, it is not an absolute principle. I have trouble in accepting that. If we do not accept retrospectivity as an absolute principle, should we not at least regard it as a legislative convention, that is, where there are at least accepted instances in which it should apply on the basis of some kind of consistent historic precedent, such as an increase in company tax in the Budget which is automatically retrospective to the beginning of the financial year. The present situation is really one of an ad hoc nature that is being argued not on principle or convention but on the grounds of loss of revenue, blatancy or the fact that there would be only a minimal loss to those who have subscribed to the Curran scheme since last August. Frankly, I do not care how much they have lost. I am concerned with basic legislative principles, the rule of law and the importance of the legislature having the confidence of the people by acting according to principles and conventions, not according to shifting or ad hoc criteria. Do not get me wrong. I would like to see every tax avoider jumped on and made to pay his way, but it has to be done by sound legislative principles. This can be achieved if governments act decisively and promptly. 
That brings me to my other reservation, which is related to the question of good government in matters of this sort. It has been said that those who have take out Curran scheme measures since August of last year should not have done so because they were on notice that official action would be taken against these sorts of schemes. The fact that they have been on notice since 1 974 and that no legislative action has been taken until April 1978 is, in my opinion, a reflection on government more than on Curran scheme participants. This is simply not good government. I exclude the present Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  from this criticism because I believe he has acted promptly and decisively, and I congratulate him for so doing. But for four years the problem of the Curran scheme has been recognised and action against it has been promised but none has been taken. That is bad government. I have heard no reasons for the delays. In my opinion it is poor policy to create a dangerous taxation precedent to help to overcome this kind of inexcusable delay. 
Let me make my position in this matter quite clear. I have reservations about the implementation of this legislation, but I applaud the Treasurer and the Government for closing these loopholes which, in my opinion, are devious, conniving and immoral even though they have been legal. By this step the Government is moving in the direction of maximising the equity of the entire taxation system. In particular, I welcome the statement by the Treasurer on 1 8 April of this year when he said: 
The general approach of the Government will be that as sufficient evidence emerges of a particular scheme of avoidance the Government will make an announcement detailing the scheme and foreshadowing its intention to legislate against it. Such legislation when introduced will operate from the date of the announcement to introduce the legislation. 
That is how it should be done. I applaud the Treasurer for his commitment to move in this manner to close further loopholes as they are discovered. It will save us from the difficulties which have surrounded this legislation. If we are to restore fairness and equity to our taxation system so that everybody in like circumstances has the same obligations, with those obligations being related to their ability to pay, these and other avoidance schemes must be stamped out. I support the broad thrust of this legislation, subject to the reservations that I have expressed relating to retrospectivity. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs whether he is aware of reports in the ethnic Press that the Government is to radically change its immigration policy to admit only those people who speak English. Will the Minister inform the House about the validity of those reports? 
I am pleased to support the Appropriation Bills presently before the House, which cover the Additional Estimates for 1 977-78. As I understand the situation, these Bills are required to meet any shortfall in meeting approved commitments as provided for in Appropriation Act (No. 1) 1977-78 and Appropriation Act (No. 2) 1977-78. They help also to facilitate new expenditures approved by the Government subsequent to the Budget. We are talking about additional appropriations totalling more than $365m. 
As was mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  last night, these Bills reaffirm the Government's policy of restraint. The Opposition has criticised the Government consistently for its policy of expenditure restraint over the past couple of years, for containing the Budget deficit, for following a tight wage policy, and for generally taking the hard political decisions associated with combating inflation. Obviously, the Opposition does not believe that an investment in political courage now will lead to any dividends for the Australian economy in the future. It does not seem to have grasped the fact that there is no longer any trade-off between inflation and employment. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  congratulates the Government on bringing inflation down but he claims that it has been achieved at considerable cost in terms of employment. Surely by now he has learnt that reducing inflation is the only way to achieve a sustainable and natural return to acceptable levels of economic activity and employment. In the context of these Appropriation Bills it is interesting to note that the Opposition, whilst seeking to criticise the Government for overshooting the projected deficit for 1977-78, itself advocates a policy of fiscal expansion and accuses the Government of being unnecessarily preoccupied with the extent of the deficit. The honourable member for Gellibrand expressed those views in his contribution to this debate last night. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  has already stated that the deficit will be greater than expected, due partly to the Government providing additional assistance to people in need and due also to the Government's success in reducing the rate of inflation. I urge the Government to continue its policy of fiscal restraint. I ask the supporters opposite of fiscal stimulation whether they have noticed any alleviation of the employment situation by virtue of the fact that the deficit has grown in this fiscal year, whatever the reasons. Of course, they have not noticed such an improvement; there has been none. The economy does not respond to that kind of stimulus. On the question of stimulation, the Opposition seeks to quote from bulletins of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development when it finds it convenient to do so. When OECD reports criticise the Government the Opposition claims that the OECD is an absolute independent authority on Australian economics. When the OECD seeks to praise the management of the Australian economy, as it has done in the April survey of the Australian economy, its reports are branded as being biased and basically written by our Treasury. The honourable member for Gellibrand again put this view last night when he said that the April survey of Australia was edited by Treasury. 
I emphasise that the OECD has been consistent over a long period in supporting the basic thrust of Australia's economic policy and recognising the basic constraints we face with regard to stimulation of the Australian economy. It said that we could do better in the field of manpower planning but it supports our demand management policies which can only be complemented by, but not substituted by, manpower planning. The honourable member for Gellibrand in his speech on the Address-in-Reply debate in this House on 9 March this year quoted from the December issue of the OECD publication  Economic Outlook  in support of his argument that Australia should indulge in expansionary demand policies both fiscal and monetary. 
I point out to the honourable member for Gellibrand that last October the SecretaryGeneral of the OECD,  Mr Van  Lannep, urged caution in this matter. He stated that certain constraints inhibited several member countries from accepting this kind of policy. This was an independent speech to an independent audience. It was not edited in any way by any country. Addressing the Council of Europe on 10 October last year  Mr Van  Lennep stated: 
Demand management policies should be directed towards achieving a moderate but sustained expansion of demand, strong enough to permit a progressive reduction in unemployment, but not so strong as to set off a resurgence of inflation. 
That is a bit like supporting motherhood. We all agree with that. To achieve this would be a difficult enough task for a government of angels but for an earthbound Treasurer it is a very difficult task. It is certainly difficult for one who has to deal with the rapacious demands of his colleagues seeking a bigger share of the national Budget. I urge the Treasurer to continue his strong line in this area of restraint. I hope that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  who is at the table is listening to the words of wisdom I have for him. 

 Mr Van Lennep added some very important qualifications to his statement which have relevance for the Australian experience. He said: 
It was recognised that in many countries the necessary recovery in productive investment was unlikely to be forthcoming without a shift in underlying cost/price relationships in favour of profits. In particular, where there was also a need to improve the balance of payments there would be only limited scope for increases in public current expenditure and private consumption. 
In other words, the OECD recognised that one of the most basic domestic distortions which had to be overcome was the distortion between the level of real wages and productivity. Where effective stabilisation policies have been pursued it has been possible to hold down production costs in relation to prices and thereby pave the way for the necessary improvement in the rate of return on capital. This means that at some point wages must rise slower than prices particularly in countries such as Australia which need to improve their competitive position. 
The OECD is consistent in its advocacy of this course of action. Now, six months later, it again states in its April 1978 report on Australia that the causes of the non-cyclical employment and investment decline are due to: . . . the persistence of very high rates of inflation, and, in particular, the massive shift in factor shares which occurred in 1978. 
This Government's support for partial wage indexation is endorsed by the OECD. It acknowledges that this country has not yet recovered from being the country which, in its own words: . . . exhibited the largest gap between the growth of real wages and the growth of productivity of any OECD country. 
The OECD referred to the period 1972 to 1975. As a percentage of gross domestic product at factor cost, the profit share is still below the accepted normal level for Australia. This vindicates the Government's wages policy and its efforts to stimulate investment. By inference the OECD does not accept in any way the wages policy of the Opposition which would only lead to a greater distortion of this imbalance and further unemployment. 
The consistency of the support of the OECD for Australia's anti-inflationary policy is further established by the other qualification that  Mr Van  Lennep placed on his call for stimulation last October. He said: 
It was recognised that the position of individual  countries  differed considerably, and that some would need to concentrate primarily on bringing inflation under control, while others- the so-called locomotive countries- would carry a particular responsibility for maintaining the momentum of the recovery. 
This strategy has again been endorsed by the OECD in its April report. It again says that this Government's approach is correct. The other qualification to stimulating demand management is also relevant to the Australian experience. The Secretary-General said that some countries with a fragile balance of payments position might have difficulty in reflating. He said: 
If any one of these countries rook action to bolster demand by itself, its current deficit would increase and downward pressure on its exchange rate could worsen the inflationary situation and undermine confidence. 
Again this is a consistency in the comments of the OECD supporting the present demand management strategy of the Australian Government. In other words, inflation is the top priority and must remain so. When the basic imbalances between real wages and productivity and internal and external balance are corrected there will be no barrier to the automatic and natural increase in the level of economic activity and employment in Australia. The present strategy of the Government has been working successfully to correct these imbalances. The OECD and other organisations expect 1979 to be a year of strong growth in both investment and employment. But the Government must hold to its present strategy even though it is politically painful if Australia is to overcome inflation and unemployment in the long term. 
An important part of this program in the context of these Appropriation Bills is the containing of the Budget deficit. The Treasurer may have difficulty in doing this. I hope not. We now have to realise that there was a time when governments could have an appreciable effect on aggregate demand by changing the deficit level by, say, $50m. Now, decisions to change employment levels marginally, ignoring price effects, might involve billions of dollars. We have already seen that this has long-term effects on inflation rates which eventually counter any beneficial short-term employment effects. We should also remember that record deficits in this country in recent times have been accompanied by record unemployment. That is one budgetary problem facing the Government. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand does not recognise that the policy of budgetary restraint has led to lower inflation in Australia. It has led to falling interest rates. It has accommodated an increase in private investment demand. All these factors will assist a return to higher levels of economic activity and employment over a longer period. Another budgetary problem relates to the inbuilt tendency for deficits to increase automatically. With tax reductions and tax indexation revenue tends to move automatically in one direction. With indexation of benefits the expenditure side of the Budget moves automatically in the other direction. I therefore urge the Treasurer to continue his policy of budgetary restraint. I suggest that to achieve control of the deficit the Government will have to adhere more stringently to its policy of assisting those people in need rather than supporting the movement towards universal payments. This resolve is required if inflation is to continue to fall and if pressures on interest rates are to continue easing. 
I also suggest that some fiscal expansionary influence could be non-inflationary if carried out responsibly and not in the way suggested by the Opposition. It need not increase- it must not increase- the size of the deficit. I refer to the possibility of the Government transferring some public resources from consumption to investment expenditure. An emphasis on works programs could be contemplated within the context of a controlled deficit and within the Government's affirmed and quite proper strategy of budgetary restraint. The pre-conditions for falls in interest rates are, firstly, control of the deficit and, secondly, continued reduction in inflation. A decline in interest rates will greatly influence the capital account and the balance of payments but only if the bona fides of the Government have been established with regard to inflation control or internal balance, thereby improving our long-term international position competitively and providing some degree of currency stability. The control of the deficit is part of this precondition. 
I urge the Government, in particular the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  to hold firm in the direction of the present economic strategy. The inflation rate is now responding favourably. Investment and consumer demand remain strong. The balance of payments is strengthening and the major imbalances in the domestic economy are being redressed. It is a long, hard fight to bring this country back to economic health. There are not any easy options. The present course is the only course. Any resort to short term expediency at this stage would constitute a grave threat to long term employment revival, a revival which is now confidently expected by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Australian business community. The political temptation to respond to short term pressure is very strong but it ignores the long term economic realities faced by Australia. The OECD has concluded that the strategy of this Government in the longer term is essentially correct. I should like to quote from the 'Conclusion' section of Chapter IV 'Prospects and Conclusions' of the OECD Economic Surveys- Aus.tralia which was published in April of this year. The OECD acknowledged, as we do, that unemployment remains a significant problem but it has to be solved by measures that will have a long term effect. The report states: 
Unemployment has increased to a level which is not only a post-war peak but higher in relation to past averages than in most other countries. It might be argued that the concentration of policy on the anti-inflationary and factor-share issues, rather than on speeding up the pace of recovery, has resulted in costs in terms of output and employment foregone in the short term. With a considerable part, but by no means all, of unemployment cyclical in nature there would, on the face of it, seem to be strong reasons to turn to more expansionary policies, to try to alleviate the problem. It seems probable that such policies would indeed lead to some  shortterm  expansion of output and reduction in unemployment, but that the net gains so achieved would be less over the longer run than what is likely to be achieved under policies broadly similar to those now being followed. This assessment is based, not on the proposition that fiscal and monetary policies do not work- in fact the Australian experience suggests that they do- but on the view that with inflation only recently into single figures and the present real wage imbalance the circumstances are not propitious for a relaxation of demand management. 
That is strong advocacy for this Government to continue its present long term demand management policies. In other words, problems do remain but the strategy of this Government, despite short term difficulties, is the only correct long term strategy for the Australian economy. I urge this Government to have the courage to stay on its present course, which is the only proper course for solving problems which are essentially of a long term nature. Within that context, I support the Appropriation Bills before the House. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
by leave- I would like to endorse the remarks made by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and to congratulate him and  Senator Young  for the leadership they gave to our delegation. I would like also to congratulate  Dr Howard  and  Mr Alan  Cumming-Thom for the way they carried out their respective duties. They greatly assisted the delegation in performing its proper functions. This was the first occasion on which I have had the opportunity of attending an international conference of this kind. I would like to comment on some of my observations at the conference in Sofia. The first thing I noticed was the rather curious way in which countries with totalitarian regimes and with poor domestic records of respect for basic individual rights and freedoms always seemed to be most concerned about the preservation of human rights in other countries. I found the sanctimonious and pious comments in this regard of the Soviet Union, of many other communist countries, a number of Third World countries and some of the Arab countries to be totally hypocritical and therefore lacking in credibility. 
My particular brief at this conference was the agenda item entitled 'The Behaviour of the Israeli Authorities in Occupied Arab Territories'. A copy of the speeches of each member of our delegation is contained in the report. Basically, I stated that resolutions from international organisations regarding Israeli practices should be approached as Middle East rather than human rights issues. I think the recent terrorist attacks on innocent Israelis support that contention. This resolution should have been debated in that context at this conference. After all, a lot of emphasis was placed in this debate on the Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons In Time of War. But little was said about other international agreements. I did not hear much talk from most of the Arab States, the communist countries and the Third World countries about United Nations resolution 242. That resolution requires the Arab states to end their acts of aggression and recognise Israel's right to exist in peace within secure boundaries- boundaries that were recognised by the United Nations 30 years ago- and free from threats or acts of force. The conference did not recognise that Israel has been under constant threat from its neighbours since its inception. 
The conference did not recognise that the Palestine Liberation Organisation still rejects Israel's right to exist and is committed to its destruction. Further, the conference did not recognise that the Jewish people are sceptical of such resolutions because they historically, have been the victims of broken international conventions and resolutions, and internationally accepted codes of behaviour. They have been the victims of these practices at immeasurable cost in terms of human suffering. So that was the approach which I adopted to this question at the conference. 
My other approach to this subject was to criticise those who, at conferences such as this one, use double standards in treating this issue solely as a human rights issue. I made the point that countries like the Soviet Union should put thenown house in order before voting against Israel on human rights issues. They can have no credibility while they and other such regimes continue to violate basic human rights in their own countries. We heard very little in the debate on the plight of Soviet Jewry or of the Jewish persecution in the Middle East. Naturally my speech was not warmly applauded by delegates. The most enthusiastic applause at this conference was in response to the speeches of the delegates of the PLO who in my opinion should not be present at this conference or any other international forum. 
Who applauded them loudest? It was the Soviet Union, the communist countries in general, the Third World countries and some of the Arab states. I claim that is a use of double standards. None of these countries can boast of supporting democratic freedoms or even the most basic human rights. Who claimed responsibility for the terrorist attack on Israel last month, murdering women and children? It was the PLO of course, the champions of human rights at the IPU conference. And whose weapons did they use? They were Russian weapons. The PLO delegates also were supporters of human rights at this conference. I want to make this point because I understand that these kinds of standards are being used at other international conferences, and this concerns me greatly. 
The final point I want to make is that at IPU conferences delegates do not represent their electorate, their party, their government or their parliament. They are meant to represent their own personal views as individual parliamentarians. I did this and, as the honourable member for Scullin said, we all did this during the course of the voting on the various agenda items. But the voting pattern on the Israeli practices issue revealed that in most countries represented at the conference an independent view was not taken. Our delegation did split on this vote. I supported Israel, as did the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher). 
Some members abstained and some voted in favour of the resolution. At least the Australian delegation members were free to vote as they chose, but Israel lost the vote 605 to 73 with 106 abstentions. Every communist country, almost every Third World country, all Arab countries voted unanimously against Israel ostensibly on human rights grounds. It was totally predictable. It was totally inconsistent with their own standards and it was totally against the spirit of individual voting for which the IPU is meant to stand. I just hope that this kind of behaviour which contradicts and prevents the free flow of ideas, policies and philosophies at such conferences is not universal because I fear that if it is, these international meeting places may do more harm than good for the cause of human rights. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
by leave- I also want to refer to this report, but with a view to drawing to the attention of this House certain matters of consequence arising from it regarding the way in which public money is spent, and how these matters could provide assistance to the Expenditure Committee as it addresses itself to the whole concept of the administration of public expenditure. 
My first problem is the way in which this whole inquiry was instigated. It really originated in March 1977, when  Mr David  Cameron, a research forester with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, based in Darwin, made certain allegations during an in camera hearing of the Environment Committee of the House concerning the management and viability of the government forestry program in the Northern Territory. After an inquiry into these allegations by a sub-committee of the Environment Committee, the  chairman,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  reported that the Expenditure Committee should take this matter on board and carry out a full investigation. It seems to me that this highlights a very serious deficiency in the way in which public programs are administered and reviewed. Why should professionals in the field, themselves public servants, have to take matters to parliamentary committees of inquiry to have their professional reservations heard? Why are they unable to have a proper professional input to these public expenditure programs through the departmental authorities responsible for administering them. 
This raises a frightening question: How many other highly expensive but defective programs are still proceeding simply because proper scrutiny is not being exercised by the proper authorities? Why should this indirect and rather exceptional procedure have to be adopted? Even then, it was only the persistence of certain professional people that brought this problem to public notice. Surely notice should have been taken of a professional forester's viewpoint, particularly as that view was being reinforced by a number of other foresters over a long period of time. This raises another question: Is there an in-built tendency within the Public Service to maximise rather than minimise public expenditure? 
In this regard I should state that several conclusions about the forestry program have emerged as a result of this inquiry. First, there has been a gross overestimation of the native forest resource in the Northern Territory, a matter that was referred to by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  In 1974 the department estimated that the production of hardwood sawlogs in the Territory would be by 1980 58,000 cubic metres. In 1 977 this figure was raised to 82,000 cubic metres but, as the honourable member said, just this year it was revised downwards to zero. The second major conclusion was that there had been inadequate research undertaken to ascertain whether certain softwoods would succeed in the Northern Territory. Softwood plantations were established, despite the fact that inadequate reseach was undertaken regarding soil types, seeding and planting technology, growth rates of suitable species and so on. The third conclusion was that the benefit cost analyses were based on unrealistic assumptions, not on research data. In fact, the planting of Cyprus pine was undertaken on a projected benefit cost ratio of 1:2.7 which is a very rosy picture, but this ratio was determined in 1971. Only three years later the ratio was determined to be less than the break even point of 1 : 1 . 
In all these areas professional foresters had voiced their concern and issued professional warnings over a very long period of time, but the program continued to expand. All I can conclude, on the basis of available evidence, is that either this information was suppressed deliberately in order to prevent minimisation of public expenditure, thereby protecting certain vested interests, and that the Parliament has been misled, or that the people responsible for administering the program were just not competent to do so. I recognise that these are serious charges, but they are the conclusions which we have had to draw from the evidence we have received. 
Another problem that the Committee encountered, and which has relevance to the 
Expenditure Committee, was that it was almost impossible to obtain accurate total figures of expenditure for this program. There is obviously no program budgeting undertaken in regard to public expenditure in this country. We were told that the total costs of the forestry program amounted to approximately $ 10m. As a result of questioning we learnt that this figure excluded the costs incurred by other departments and agencies in respect of this program. The Committee has now estimated that total expenditure on the program amounted to approximately $30m. It has subsequently been ascertained that the Department of the Northern Territory has no actual expenditure records for two years of the 1967-70 program. In other words, the stated program costs on which parliamentary approvals were given were incomplete and seriously underestimated. It would appear that this is a standard method of preparing estimates. In my opinion this Committee should examine the implications of this approach to appropriating funds. What it means effectively is that even if the House of Representatives had the procedures and the forms which would enable us to examine estimates in detail, there would be little possibility of assessing accurately individual projects and their viability. An assessment of estimates only on a departmental basis can be very misleading for the Parliament and can obviously accommodate sloppy program budgeting, as has been the case in the program which is the subject of this report. 
It is not enough to justify such practices solely on the basis of a social function of employing Aboriginals. It appears that no review of the program was undertaken when Aboriginal attitudes to this kind of employment changed. They changed rather dramatically in 1974. Further, there seems to have been no adequate consultation between the Department of Aboriginal Affairs and the Department of the Northern Territory regarding what is or is not an appropriate form of employment for Aboriginals. I maintain that it is a highly questionable practice to train Aboriginals in ventures which have no long-term viability. After all, $30m has been spent, and only 28 Aboriginals now have employment in the project. That is a pretty substantial subsidy per person. 
It appears that no adequate and independent on-going review of clearly defined expenditure programs is undertaken by this Parliament. The Committee should address itself to the problem of establishing proper review mechanisms which will obviate the need for waste and inefficiency in expenditure programs being brought to the notice of government only by public servants being motivated by their professional standards to make submissions to parliamentary committees of inquiry. This is hardly the way to exercise an on-going scrutiny of public expenditure. 
In summary, I think this inquiry opens up more questions than it answers- questions which the Committee will have to consider within the context of the whole principle of public expenditure administration. I have an instinctive feeling that the sheer extent of public expenditure in Australia and the very nature of public enterprise make it almost impossible for that expenditure to be properly accounted for on behalf of its shareholders, the Australian taxpayers. Certainly, given the existing resources of the Parliament and the procedures of this House, it is beyond adequate parliamentary scrutiny at this stage. We can certainly examine clearly defined areas of public expenditure, as we have done in this report. My concern is whether or not the whole spectrum of public enterprise in Australia could withstand the kind of scrutiny which this Committee undertakes in specific areas. In my opinion that is the major question to be answered by the Expenditure Committee in its future work. 
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Parramatta for the way in which they carried out their duties in bringing this inquiry to a swift conclusion. I also would like to pay tribute to  Mr Kel  McGrath who is in the House at the moment. He possesses the rare combination of exemplary academic qualifications in the forestry area and a very sound and pragmatic businesslike approach to forestry programs. I also would like to congratulate  Mr Bush,  the clerk to the subcommittee. He developed a very sound knowledge of the technical aspects of the subject under consideration, and it was his administrative ability which enabled us to bring this report to a swift and, I think, very just conclusion. 
-Is the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of recent reports which suggest that the Prime Minister's address to the United Nations special session on disarmament indicated a significant change in government safeguards policy relating to the production of fissionable material? Can the Acting Minister assure the House that there has been no such change in this very important area of government policy? 
-I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate. At the outset I say that I am very surprised at some of the comments of the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  who spoke very loudly and indignantly about the Government's proposals in the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill. I think that he generated rather more heat than light. He said that we were cutting back the Commonwealth Government's contribution in this area and taking ourselves away from our responsibilities. He should realise that, for the home care services component of this program, there has been an 83.5 per cent increase in estimated expenditure this year over that for the financial year 1975-76 when we took office. I draw the attention of the honourable member to that fact. In addition, for the coming year the Federal Government will increase by 14 per cent its contributions in the home care services component of the program. That represents a real increase. There will be a 57 per cent increase in the coming year for subsidies for welfare officers. I do not see that as absolving ourselves of our responsibilities in this area. I point out to the honourable gentleman that, as I recall it, the Council on the Aging was not too happy when the Labor Government froze the funds available for subsidies to welfare officers. I will come back to that matter a little later. 
I intend to spend most of my time talking about the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill. I welcome the Government's decision to extend again the provisions of the Homeless Persons Assistance Act for a further 12 months. This is the second time that such an extension has been given. I hope that this time something definitive will come from the review which this extension is designed to accommodate. The problem of Australia's chronically homeless and destitute people characterises all large population centres in Australia and therefore is of very special concern to those of us in this Parliament who represent capital city seats. Of course it is a problem with which all of us should be concerned. 
As one who has taken some interest in this matter, I will, firstly, make some comments about the extent and the geography of homelessness as I have come to see the situation, and then comment on the Government's response to it so far and on the aspects of the problem which will require further attention in the future. Regarding the extent of the problem, two rather amazing facts emerge. One is that no specific Federal legislation was directed to this problem until 1974. 1 congratulate the then Government on its initiative in this area. This occurred despite the fact that organisations such as the Salvation Army have long recognised the problem and have been directing their attention to it in Perth since before 1910. 
The other surprising fact is that a census of homeless people has never been undertaken in Australia. I know that difficulties are involved in such a census. The report of the working party on homeless men and women estimated that in 1973 approximately 25,000 people in Australia were homeless. The report on the survey conducted recently by the Department of Social Security- I refer to the booklet entitled 'A Place of Dignity' which is the report on a survey of homeless people and homeless persons assistance centres- opened with the comment that an estimated 10,000 homeless men and women in Australia were being assisted by welfare agencies. In view of the discrepancy between those figures- I know that the population is constantly changing- I suggest that we need a clearer indication of the extent of the problem in this country. We know that it is a growing problem; that is certainly the case in Perth. The problem is essentially one for capital cities and large regional centres. For example, in Western 
Australia 95 per cent of the people receiving assistance under this Act live in the vicinity of Perth, and the remainder live in Fremantle. This fact has important implications for the way in which the program should be delivered through the various levels of government. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  stated in his second reading speech that the program is now sufficiently well established to warrant discussions with State governments on their views about the sharing of responsibilities in this area. I would like to make some comments about that. The Commonwealth Government's response since 1974 has been very positive. Under this Act, to date, capital grants totalling $9. 8m have been approved. Expenditure on rental and salary subsidies to June of this year totalled over $640,000. A further $285,000 has been committed for the coming financial year. Meal and accommodation subsidies to date have totalled $2. 6m. A further $lm has been committed for the coming year. This has been a solid response from Commonwealth governments, whether they be Labor or Liberal. In my view, however, this kind of community problem also requires a response from more localised levels of government. I have a more optimistic view of the possible response from those levels of government than has the Opposition. 
I notice that the recent report entitled 'A Place of Dignity' stated that surveys revealed that State governments should not have the chief responsibility for providing funds for this program. That does not mean that they should not play a more substantial role than they have in the past. The report showed that, in the case of the 33 homeless persons centres surveyed regarding their financial resources, grants from State governments represented only 4 per cent of their total income. I think that that performance could be improved and I am pleased that the Government is at present examining the possibility of widening the ambit of the Act. Let me say to the honourable member for Batman that, to my knowledge, the Government is giving consideration to the recommendations of the Bailey report to incorporate the program into a broader sheltered accommodation program to enable a greater participation by relevant State government agencies. That is my understanding of the present situation and I hope that the Government moves in this direction. 
Also in this context, it is interesting to note that only one local government authority in Australia has received funds under this Act to this stage. I think that this is something that the capital city councils cold have a good look at, not necessarily with a view to administering the programs but with a view to encouraging local charitable organisations under their jurisdiction to involve themselves in this area of welfare. But most important of all, due to the very nature of the problem of homelessness, this program needs to be administered predominantly by church and charitable organisations. The booklet entitled 'A Place of Dignity' stated that surveys showed that organisations currently in the field are the best friends and allies that homeless people could have'. In Western Australia that would apply to organisations such as the Salvation Army, the Jesus People, the Uniting Church and, of course, the St Vincent de Paul Society, which throughout Australia plays a key role in administering this program. 
To understand why these organisations are so important one needs to understand the very nature of the problem. A detailed study was undertaken by the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia, and its findings in this area are contained in its third report. It outlines the social dimension of the problem of homelessness and the health status of these people. Some of these findings, which were based on a significant sample of some 356 homeless men in Sydney, were as follows: These men experienced a disrupted and discontinuous process of care in the formative and vulnerable years of their childhood. A high proportion never attended school. There was a history of family alcoholism and a strong relationship existed between parental alcoholism and drinking problems early in their lives. For many there was a significant childhood experience in corrective institutions. As to social contact there was a high usage of church or welfare shelters and a virtual absence of family ties. More than half were exservicemen and most of these had served in the Second World War. One in four had been homeless for more than 10 years. For most, the incidence of previous illnesses was far higher than for the general population and, as a group, homeless men appeared to be prematurely aged. 
Other surveys have shown that the percentage of epilepsy and venereal diseases was ten times as high as that for the community at large. The incidence of tuberculosis was four times as high. Mental problems and breakdowns were four times as common, and so it goes on. The most recent survey conducted by the Department of Social Security, as set out in this booklet entitled A Place of Dignity', also found that there was a high rate of illness and disability amongst the homeless persons surveyed. In the jargon of the report of the Henderson Commission of inquiry, it is stated that these people are severely handicapped as a group by social disability and health impairment. It goes on to say: 
The roots of this level of dysfunction are to be found in childhood, promoted by self-destructive behaviour extending into adulthood and accelerated by poverty. Homelessness is a disability that operates against restoration of function and leads to further deterioration. It is a sickness of the society and the individual in that society. 
That is pretty sophisticated and fancy language but it is interesting to note that the most recent survey undertaken by the Department of Social Security states that these structural kinds of causes were not advanced as being of any significance. It seems to me that further inquiries should be made as to the very nature of this problem, because that is a very serious difference of opinion between professional people working in the field. 
Some things remain clear regarding the chronically homeless people. Firstly, in the great majority of cases they never had a chance. Secondly, governments and responsible organisations need to mount a salvaging campaign. What does this comment on the nature of the problem mean in terms of the appropriate response from the community and from governments? The nature of the problem, as outlined in this report, requires a compassionate response from the community at large, quite apart from the official governmental response I referred to earlier. Clearly it is unacceptable for the public, as often happens, unfortunately, to make pious, sanctimonious and vindictive comments as to the casual relationship between the kind of life these people have led and the circumstances in which they now find themselves. Such a response, in the light of what we know about this problem, is not only unhelpful and irrelevant but is also very wrong in its imputation. Also, the community, through its elected representatives, should accept that governments must pursue welfare policies directed towards areas of real need, such as homeless persons. It seems ridiculous to me that governments should succumb to the political temptation to adopt concepts of universal welfare benefits for egalitarian reasons rather than to use selectivity as the proper basis for welfare expenditure. Unless governments come to grips with this issue, newly emerging areas of government support for the needy, such as homeless persons, will not receive the assistance they require. This 'needs' approach to welfare is supported by the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia, and the Government has indicated its support of this concept. What is needed, of course, is the courage of government to implement this concept in all of its welfare programs. 
Also what is needed is not solely a monolithic governmental presence in the administration of this program. As I have said, we need to encourage a participation by voluntary agencies in this area. This Government is committed by its own platform to administering welfare programs in a decentralised, dignified, unobtrusive and sympathetic manner rather than through impersonal bureaucratic agencies. This in turn imposes an obligation on government to fund these organisations to an extent which will ensure that they stay in the field. There is no question in my mind that the subsidies available under this Act, whilst they may have been adequate in 1974, are now greatly in need of adjustment to take account of subsequent inflation levels, if the continued involvement of voluntary agencies is to be possible. At present some of these groups are themselves meeting a great burden of all the necessary recurrent expenses, and this is causing them some considerable concern and difficulty. The Government must ensure that they are not forced to leave this area of welfare. 
The question of salary subsidies is also important. The present level of subsidy, 50 per cent, imposes a great burden on a number of these organisations. In some of the larger centres, such as the Tanderra Hostel in Perth which looks after more than 100 homeless persons, supervisory or administrative staff are required. If the purpose of these centres also is to provide some scope for rehabilitation rather than just mounting a salvaging operation, additional suitably trained staff, quite apart from welfare officers, may be required. But this requires a prior determination as to the proper function of these homeless persons centres. 
Finally, in supporting the Bill, I hope that the Government will use the review period to look at some of the matters I have raised, such as the definition and extent of homelessness, the inherent nature of the problem, the responsibilities of the various levels of government, the proper and potential functions of homeless persons centres, and the adequacy of present subsidy arrangements with eligible organisations. This Bill deals with a growing and very tragic problem in Australian society which has to be resolved very quickly. 
I will refer briefly to the other Bill which is before the House and which is the subject of this cognate debate, that is, the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill. I must say that I was concerned when I first heard that the subsidy arrangements set out in the section of the Act dealing with home care services were to be changed. This concern was shared by many organisations, including the Council for the Aging in Western Australia, and by many individuals. This Government had often stated that its intention was to provide Commonwealth financial assistance for those requiring support services, to enable them to continue to live independently in their own homes. In recent years the Government has not only greatly expanded its home care services- I mentioned earlier an increase in services of some 83.5 per cent- but also provided increased financial support for other services, such as Meals on Wheels, and domiciliary nursing care programs which are administered under separate legislation. For these reasons I was surprised when the subsidy arrangements were changed with respect to home care services and the salaries of approved welfare officers. Of course, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  voiced their protest about this change. This protest ignores a very important factor. Subsequently, when the full story came out, we realised on a closer inspection of both these areas that it is clear that the financial commitment of this Government will increase substantially- by 14 per cent with regard to home care services and by 57 per cent with regard to subsidies for welfare officers. These changes represent increases in real terms. Of course, the subsidy for the capital costs of senior citizen centres will be continued on the same basis as previously. Obviously, therefore, the Government is expecting a much greater contribution from other levels of government. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  in his second reading speech, stated:   . . the new arrangements Tor the program were announced at the time of the Premiers Conference in June, and of course are fully in line with the Government's policy of federalism, which recognises that States and local governments are well placed to assume greater responsibility for locally-based programs of this nature. 
The two previous speakers in the debate from the other side of the House failed to mention the greater financial capacity of these other levels of government to respond positively to these new responsibilities. In view of this statement I support the increased commitment by the Commonwealth Government, but I would like the Minister, in his concluding remarks to the House, to say whether the Commonwealth Government in arriving at the new subsidy arrangements received any assurance from the States that they would expand their commitments in this area. I also point out to those honourable members who seem to think that the Government should stay in every area of welfare for all time that the very title of this Bill is the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill 1978. 1 am very pleased to support both Bills which are before the House in this cognate debate. 
I support the Budget. I was advocating a tough Budget several months ago and I still maintain it is the correct economic strategy for Australia at this time. In fact in some ways it was not tough enough. (  Quorum formed).  As I was saying, the basic thrust of this Budget is quite correct. The fight against inflation is a prerequisite if Australia is to attain higher levels of economic activity and greater job opportunities on a long-term, sustainable basis. This requires in fiscal policy firm control of the deficit, and I refer those who say that this concentration of economic policy against inflation is a heartless approach to economic management, to the Henderson Committee of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia. Part of that report said: 
No country with a continuing inflation rate of over 10 per cent per annum has been able to prevent this causing hardship to important groups of poor people. 
This is very important in the context of this Budget. Although our present inflation rate is less than 10 per cent per annum and will continue to fall if present policies are maintained, this is a situation which can very easily be reversed. The Reserve Bank of Australia endorses these comments, and I quote from its recent report which says: 
With such displacements of key factors persisting, and with inflation still high enough to sustain an inflationary psychology, there is a substantial risk that a further stimulus to demand especially from the public sector will tend to spill over fairly quickly into higher prices, rather than lead to sustained increases in production and employment. 
That comes from the Reserve Bank of Australia, an independent, thoroughly competent and authoritative body of economic opinion in Australia. If the Reserve Bank opinion is not good enough for members of the Opposition, surely they can learn from Australia's own experience and their own experience when they were in government. If they cannot do that, they should look at the present situation around the world. Countries such as Canada and the United 
States of America are presently paying the price of prematurely relaxing their economic policies. They are now suffering from high and rising inflation rates. If the Reserve Bank opinion is not good enough for them, surely that fact is. If honourable members opposite still are not satisfied, I would refer them to a speech made by the Secretary-General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development to the Council of Europe last October when he called for a moderate, non-inflationary expansion of demand in member countries. But he added some very important qualifications which are relevant to the present economic situation in Australia. I will quote from that speech. He said: 
It was recognised that in many countries the necessary recovery in productive investment was unlikely to be forthcoming without a shift in underlying cost/price relationships in favour of profits. In particular, where there was also a need to improve the balance of payments there would be only limited scope for increases in public current expenditure and private consumption. 
The OECD again advocated this course of action in its April 1978 report on Australia. In other words, the balance of payments position, a major bar to economic stimulation at present, will come into an accommodating position only when inflation, and therefore the domestic deficit, is held in check. The OECD also maintains, as does the Reserve Bank and the Government, that the distortion between real wages and productivity is a major barrier to a sustained rise in productive investment and employment prospects. In other words, greater wage restraint is required in Australia. 
The Reserve Bank's report in this regard is also interesting, particularly in view of the fact that  Mr Hawke,  the head of the trade union movement in Australia, is a member of the Reserve Bank Board. He was the  President  of the Australian Labor Party when the report was written. Of course, there was no dissenting report. The trade union movement and the ALP both complain that automation is taking jobs from people. But they also agree with full wage indexation although Australia has a very substantial gap between the growth of real wages and the growth of productivity. They do not see these matters as being in any way related- that is, the price of labour and the demand for labour. This was obvious in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The Reserve Bank acknowledged that a number of people argued the case for more expansionary policies on the basis that there is excess capacity in industry which could quickly be used up in a noninflationary manner. What the Bank basically said was that the price of the labour factor of production no longer reflects its worth or its availability, and that filling up the utilisation gap by labour may not be a reasonable proposition any longer. This will remain the case unless wage restraint is rigorously adhered to in this country. 
In all these areas, the OECD, the Reserve Bank and other major authorities agree that a tight wages policy is necessary. But not the Opposition. The Opposition again wants full wage indexation which will continue the 1974 wagesprofit distortion which still remains a major obstacle to a recovery in employment. The popular debate on this Budget has centred mainly on specific items of expenditure cuts or revenue raising. But there has been a general consensus that the broad strategy of this Budget is correct. This strategy, which is supported by the OECD, by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the Reserve Bank, is necessary if the preconditions for a longer term and sustainable noninflationary growth pattern are to be established. In other words, if employment in the longer term is to be increased, the major distortions of this economy- inflation, the balance of payments, the relationship between costs and prices or wages and profits- all have to be corrected and this requires political courage at this time. 
Unfortunately, members of the Opposition, again by their comments, have sought a simplistic solution to these problems. They again, through the speeches of their spokesmen, seek to impose solutions which they themselves have tried previously and which have failed dismally. Again there is the call for a higher deficit. It is claimed that this will have a mildly expansionary effect. But this has been tested before and no matter what the mix between revenue and expenditure options, the deficit has to be financed. It can be financed only by measures which are repressive and which in the long run will reverse any short-term expansionary impact. Let us look at the record. Adopting the principle put forward by the Leader of the Opposition in his reply to the Budget, one would expect an expanded Budget to expand economic activity and employment levels. The Labor Government tried this in 1974. The deficit rose from $293m to $2, 567m. Government expenditure rose by 46 per cent. What was the effect on employment of this massive Budget deficit? It was disastrous. Why was it disastrous? It was disastrous because income taxes rose by 40 per cent; interest rates skyrocketed to  IVA  per cent; and inflation rose to the highest levels in Australia 's history- to 1 7 per cent per annum for 1974-75. So that is how the deficit was financed. These results of the massive relaxation of fiscal policy meant that unemployment rose by over 160 per cent. Quite obviously, the solution of the Opposition is the same as the one it used so disastrously when honourable members opposite were in Government. 
My only constructive criticism of the present Budget presented by the Government is the trade-off between the income tax surcharge and expenditure levels. Successive Budgets have been unable to restore the recurrent expenditure side of the Budget to a reasonable level following the 1974-75 blow-out. This is where the burden of fiscal policy lies and the Government, although steadily reducing the rate of increase in Government current expenditure, still has not reduced it to a level which can be financed satisfactorily from borrowings and taxation. The Government did not go far enough in trimming back expenditure, the result being an increase in taxes which, although being only a one year surcharge, has a number of very significant disadvantages. First, this measure runs contrary to the whole thrust of the Government's tax reforms of the past  2lA  years. Secondly, and more importantly, this method of financing the deficit will not assist economic recovery. It will have a contractionary impact which would not have occurred if the deficit had been corrected by a cutback in public consumption expenditure. If this current expenditure had been cut back even further to an extent that would have permitted the government to move towards non-inflationary stimulatory investment expenditure from the public sector, the Budget outlays strategy would have been even more acceptable. 
Thirdly, and related to these matters, is the whole basis on which public consumption expenditure is disbursed. This is going to be a major area of concern for all future Federal governments. Government leaders are constantly stating that welfare should be based on need. But when it comes to biting that bullet it seems that we develop soft teeth. Continued adherence to universal welfare payments is bad welfare policy. It certainly is not part of the Liberal philosophy. This Government should have taken the opportunity in this Budget at last to adopt selectivity based on need as the basis of expenditure on welfare which at present costs taxpayers in excess of $8 billion per annum. Such a move, which I believe many members of the Opposition would privately support, and which the Pensioners League of Australia- and certainly the pensioners to whom I speak- also supports, has a number of obvious benefits. First of all, the ability of governments to move constantly towards lower taxes is limited by universal welfare payments. Secondly, and related to this, is the possibility of killing the goose which lays the golden egg. In other words, the national product, however it is split up, will not grow as it should because incentives have to be removed. Thirdly, universal payments automatically mean that for any particular benefit those in most need of its assistance will not receive as much of the benefit as their circumstances would dictate. This is because a given appropriation is shared between those who need assistance and those who do not. Fourthly, universal payments may well mean that indexation of such benefits is simply not financially possible and hence their real value will gradually be eroded. Also, the future manoeuvrability of governments with their Budgets is hampered by universal schemes. They are unable to respond to new emerging areas of need. In the present context one could refer to the problems of homelessness and the need to upgrade existing subsidies in that area, families with severely handicapped children, and so forth. 
Finally, of course, if governments did decide to base welfare payments solely on need there would be the opportunity for governments to introduce tough budgets such as this one without, at the same time, being forced to implement penny-pinching measures involving social injustices such as reverting to annual adjustments of pensions. That basically is my only criticism of a Budget which, as an instrument of economic policy, is a sound one and one which will enable this Government in the longer term to correct those basic distortions which presently prevent a return to higher levels of economic activity and employment on a sustainable basis. I hope that the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland),  who is at the table, will convey my suggestions to the Government on this particular philosophy of disbursing welfare payments. 
I think that with taxation indexed and with a wide range of benefits indexed there is an automatic tendency these days for Budget deficits to expand automatically. That means a number of things which have very serious consequences: Governments are not able to respond to economic problems as they would like to; there is a problem in constantly moving towards tax reductions; and the capacity to respond to real areas of need is reduced and, of course, the indexation of major benefits is prevented. So in all these areas I think all the members of this Parliament should recognise that social welfare payments should be based solely on need. In that way, future governments will be able to budget responsibly for the economic and social needs of this country. 
Debate interrupted. 
I am pleased to have the opportunity to speak on the estimates for the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs because, in my view, the activities and initiatives of the Government in this area represent one of the major success stories of this Government over the past  2Vi  years. I thank the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  who is the Opposition spokesman in this area for the way in which he has really given strong basic support to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  and the Government. In a time of general expenditure restraint we find that the Government is providing a wide range of new benefits and programs to migrants and migrant organisations. Expenditure by the Department in the coming year will rise by some 25 per cent. 
I will look briefly at the record. When the Labor Government came to office it did not even see fit to establish a separate department for migrants. It was the present Government which saw the need to establish a separate Department of Immigration with which migrants would establish contact initially and which would continue to provide a special contact point for migrants during their subsequent settlement in Australia. It is always Labor spokesmen who state that the Government sees migrants as being factory fodder'. That is the crude expression that they use and it is one which I think is a great insult to all Australians, whether they were born in this country or not. Yet it was the Labor Party which did away with a separate Department of Immigration. What did it do? It combined that department with the Department of Labour. So, in other words, it was the Labor Party that saw migrants as being manpower units and little more than that. 
On the other hand this Government reintroduced the Department of Immigration and expanded it to include ethnic affairs, a recognition of the fact that the Government does not see migrants as being just workers but rather as people with a unique and cultural heritage which we should encourage them to foster as they become Australian citizens. In other words, it does not just want their labour; it wants them instead as total beings who are able to add to the vitality and richness of the total Australian social fabric. It has backed that ideal by action. It has also sought to integrate migrant services in a way which will better enable migrants to handle the Australian bureaucracy. Previously, if they had particular problems, they would be sent from department to department to seek assistance. In order to rationalise this situation sensibly, the Government has assisted migrants by adding settlement services, the telephone interpreter service, adult education services and other services within the one department. 
The Government has also established the first migrant resource centres in Sydney and Melbourne. I believe that another three centres wil be established in the first half of next year. These represent a significant initiative in the provision of additional services to migrants, both individually and in organisations, in the form of a contact and reference point with which people can develop some affinity and to which they can go for assistance and additional information. As it is envisaged that some 1 8 of these centres wil be established in the next three years, I would Uke to stress to the Minister the need for Perth to be given a high priority for such a centre. My electorate of Perth has a total population in excess of 1 13,000 people. At least 20 per cent of the total number are persons who were born outside Australia or the United Kingdom. In relation to other capital city seats in this country- I have had the figures drawn up by the Parliamentary Library- that of itself should accord Perth a high priority. 
The Opposition spokesman mentioned migrant education. Very significant advances have been made in this area. The Commonwealth Government has almost doubled funds for the adult migrant education program in Australia over the past two years. Expenditure in this area has risen from $8.8m in 1976-77 to the $17.2m which has been provided in the 1978-79 Budget. I congratulate the Goverment and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, who is at the table, on this. In the area of child migrant education there has been an increase in expenditure in each of the years since this Government took office. Perhaps the major achievement of this Government has been the establishment of the Galbally Committee and the subsequent adoption of its major recommendations regarding post-arrival programs and services for migrants. In line with the Galbally Committee recommendations, $6. 5m will be committed for the coming year. Over the next three years the implementation of these recommendations will involve a total expenditure in excess of $50m. In all of these areas, the Government has a very proud record of achievement. 
I would like to say a few words about the Government's recently announced intention to increase Australia 's immigration intake. Firstly, I state that under the Labor Government in 1975-76 Australia's immigration reached the lowest level since 1947 when there was an intake of 52,000 people. This Government, on the other hand, has decided to increase the net annual immigration intake to 70,000 for the first year of the triennial rolling program which commenced in the year 1 978-79. On balance, in my opinion, this expanded immigration program should be welcomed by all Australians; but it must be done sensibly, with caution and with a certain degree of flexibility. It is difficult in times of high unemployment to gain widespread acceptance of the need for an expanded immigration poliCy. Most of the objections which generally come from the trade union movement are based on economic grounds. 
I think these objections can be countered on several grounds: Firstly, few people could fail to recognise the long term correlation which has existed in Australia between population growth and economic development, particularly since the last war. Also, immigration can provide a labour force mobility which might not otherwise exist. This is very important for a country with a population distribution such as ours. In addition, immigration can meet occupational shortages and help to overcome lags in domestic retraining schemes. For each skilled worker entering Australia, jobs are created for additional semiskilled and unskilled workers. This is what the bulk of the unemployed in Australia are. In this context, as the Australian labour force ages- as it will do on present projections- it will become less mobile in terms of both geography and occupation. Also, immigration can help to provide a balance to the work force component of the population which would grow only at diminishing rates with the present and projected combination of a declining natural population growth rate and an aging of that population. 
Immigration also can improve expectations of the business community regarding future markets, thereby influencing its output and investment decisions, and it can, of course, create economies of scale. I also make the point that those who state that higher immigration rates, coupled with capital intensification, will lead automatically to higher unemployment should realise that historically Australia has been able to maintain near full employment at times of high immigration and increasing capital to labour ratios. In other words, productivity improvement leads to further economic achievement and higher living standards rather than to higher unemployment over the longer term. 
In addition to those economic considerations, I suggest that defence, foreign affairs and humanitarian considerations- particularly in view of our place in this region of the world- may well justify Australia seeking a higher population by the end of this century. But there are also a number of unknowns which could influence the nature of the immigration program. We must be able to respond to these factors as they take a clear form. In particular, I refer to the studies which will be undertaken with respect to the extent and nature of structural unemployment in Australia, whether it be social or technological. There may well be a case, if the rate of technological change is increasing, for revising some of these plans. We may have to respond to the findings of these studies. 
I mention the need to refer to the various refugee problems, both actual and potential, which we may need to accommodate in the future. In particular, with events in Rhodesia happening very quickly, we may have to respond immediately and sympathetically to that situation in the near future. On balance, I support an expanded immigration program on both economic and non-economic grounds; but it must be implemented with caution, flexibility and good sense. I also mention that immigration policy has to be framed within a long term perspective. The fundamental decision has to be made as to whether population is desirable and, if this is agreed to, action should be taken now. It would be tempting to defer a decision in the light of short term problems because long lead times are involved in making and implementing decisions about population policy. Decisions taken now, and within the next few years, about immigration matters will have a permanent, long term effect on the size and composition of the Australian population. I congratulate the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, who is at the table. He is the best Minister for Immigration that we have seen for several decades. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Hon. Ian Robinson)-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to South Africa's decision to proceed with its own election in Namibia. What is the Government's reaction to this decision? What are the implications for the proposed United Nations peacekeeping force in this area? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 15 August 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that in June 1977 the Government imposed a sales tax of 15 per cent on all gold coins other than those minted in Australia for or on behalf of the Government. 
) If so, why was this sales tax imposed. 
Is it a fact that, at the time this sales tax was imposed, citizens of Australia were permitted to hold, possess and deal openly in gold coins of any nature in Australia, without having to seek the approval of the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
Is it also a fact that, at the time this sales tax was imposed, Australian citizens were not forced to hand in to the Reserve Bank of Australia stocks of gold sovereigns or half sovereigns over and above a certain prescribed ownership level. 
By imposing the sales tax of 15 per cent on overseas gold coins, did the Government anticipate or intend any interference with the rights of Australian citizens to use freely gold coins minted in Australia for any purpose seen fit by the owners of those coins. 
Has the Government instructed the Reserve Bank of Australia to cease trading completely in gold sovereigns and half sovereigns minted in Australia and in the possession of the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
If not, is there any reason for the Reserve Bank of Australia ceasing to have dealings with legitimate gold jewellery businesses in Australia, who in the past have used or sold gold sovereigns and half sovereigns for numismatic purposes, or as articles of adornment. 
Is the Reserve Bank of Australia permitted to continue to hold such stocks of Australian minted gold sovereigns and half sovereigns as are currently in its possession. 
Is it a fact that the minting of gold sovereigns and half sovereigns no longer takes place in Australia. 
I want to speak about a matter which was raised in this Parliament today and which should be of grave concern to it. I refer to the report in today's  Age  which states that Qantas Airways Ltd has acceded to a Syrian Government order that Jewish people be banned from that airline's weekly flights to London via Damascus. The report stated further that a woman had been refused a seat on a Qantas flight between London and Tullamarine via Damascus because she was Jewish. It also stated that the reservation staff of the airline in Melbourne is not allowed to book Jewish people on the Damascus flights. I regard this as an appalling state of affairs; it is contrary to all that this country stands for. It is fundamental to our own Constitution that no person shall be subjected to penalties or to any form of discrimination based on his religious beliefs. But the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  agreed in the House today that this Qantas arrangement did just that. In other words, the Governor-General of Australia cannot travel on a particular scheduled flight of an airline which is wholly-owned by the Commonwealth of Australia.  His  position in this regard is the same as that of all of the Jewish people whom I represent in this Parliament, and I deplore this situation. 
But, of course, the principle spreads far beyond the realm of any single religion. It is not good enough for the Minister to say that Israel follows a similar course. Not only is that irrelevant; it is incorrect. The Minister stated that Israel refuses admission to nationals of countries of the Arab League. 
I would say, as did  Senator Wheeldon  in another place today, that a state of war exists between Israel and Arab League countries. That explains Israel's position in this regard. Syria is the great friend of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. It does not recognise Israel's right to exist and is a barrier to the fulfilment of the Camp David Accord. If, in this context, the Arab League countries also will not accept those who have Israeli passports, that may be understandable in the present political situation of the Middle East. But that is not the point. The point is that Qantas has agreed to a proposition that people of the Jewish faith, whether they be from Israel or Australia, or of any nationality, cannot join one of its scheduled flights. I find that disgraceful, a breach of the spirit of our Constitution, and totally against the basic freedoms that we in Australia applaud. 
I make another point in relation to the Minister's comment on this matter; Israel has not said that no Arab is allowed into Tel Aviv. There are many Arabs in Tei Aviv. As  Senator Wheeldon  stated, the Israeli authorities- 
. have not said that Indian Moslems or Australian Moslems or people of Palestinian or Lebanese origin who have become naturalised Australians are not allowed to go into Israel. 
Therefore, I say that it is both irrelevant and incorrect to attempt to justify the actions of Qantas by certain actions taken by airlines in the Middle East. This is Australia and we in this Parliament are responsible for our international airline. In my view, it is not good enough to argue that agreements such as this are based on the practicalities of the real world, such as the safety of passengers in Damascus, the travel costs of failing to maintain landing rights in the Middle East, and so forth. 
In my opinion, the question of principle should override these considerations, and Qantas and this Government should not adhere to such agreements, even if we have to forgo our travel rights in these areas. Our major responsibility is to ensure that people of Jewish faith in Australia and elsewhere are free to practise their faith without being subjected to any forms of discrimination or hindrance. We must take firm action to ensure that this basic freedom is preserved. I call on the Minister for Transport to do away with this quite preposterous agreement which Qantas has entered into. We,  Sir, in  this Parliament are responsible for the Qantas airline. The airline has stated quite clearly in its annual report that we are responsible for the agreements that it enters into. I certainly do not understand why Qantas should be able to undertake agreements which are totally contrary to the foreign policy of this country and totally contrary to all the basic freedoms that we have long cherished. We shall no longer be able to hold our heads high in the international arena, as citizens of a free and democratic country, if we go along with agreements such as this and do not take the action which all of the people of this country would applaud, the Jewish people of this country in particular. 
I address a question to the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources. Will the Minister inform the House of the guidelines he will raise in his discussion with the Premier of Western Australia on Saturday regarding the  Deputy  Prime Minister's statement on the export of iron ore, coal and bauxite? Will he reaffirm that that statement does not contravene the States' rights philosophy of the Government or its basic Liberal philosophy? Can he assure the House that we accept in principle the discipline of all market forces and not just those which defy the laws of gravity? 
I am particularly pleased to be able to enter this debate today because only last week several very important developments in telecommunications were announced in Western Australia. I do not want to sound parochial but in my view the confidence that Telecom Australia has shown in Western Australia is very well founded. Anyone who regularly traverses this continent and visits Western Australia is well aware that in that State there is a feeling of confidence and optimism regarding its longer-term economic future. Our wealth is very substantially based on export industries. 
We have a minimal reliance on protection. In answer to the honourable member for Moore, I might add that we like to stand on our own feet and we view, with great concern, statements such as those that were made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  on Tuesday. We seem to be a repository for all those things that the world needs and will continue to need in the foreseeable future. I refer to energy supplies, mineral resources and food. The exploitation of these resources has important implications for the development of telecommunications in Western Australia. I say that for several reasons. First, much of the wealth which is generated in our State comes from relatively remote mining and rural sectors. Secondly, much of this produce is the subject of international trade which, so far as we are concerned, can best be left to the companies, the market and the State for negotiating purposes only within very broad guidelines. Thirdly, this kind of economic development has greatly increased the commercial links of Western Australia with the eastern States. I say that because this development is and will be undertaken by the private sector. But the very nature of the Western Australian economy requires a substantial public infrastructure presence, particularly in the field of telecommunications. 
I would contend, therefore, that on a per capita basis, Western Australia requires a greater commitment of funds by Telecom than any other State on an intrastate, interstate and international basis. So, I am very pleased that Telecom has recognised this priority by the very substantial future funding it has committed to Western Australia. The State manager of Telecom said only this week that on a population basis Western Australia would receive a bigger part of the $923m that Telecom will spend nationally next year than any other State. I should like to list a few of the Telecom projects which are listed for Western Australia. Last week, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley),  who is sitting at the table opened the Wellington Telecommunication building, a major development, in the city of Perth- a $2 1.5m project which will give -  i  Mr Hyde-  Is that in your electorate? 
-Yes, that is in my electorate  and I am very proud of that particular project that Telecom has undertaken. That project will give the people in Western Australia the best possible telephone service, both nationally and internationally. In the years ahead, this building will house modern equipment representing an investment of over $ 1 00m. The bulk of this sophisticated equipment will be made by Australians in Australian factories. This is an example of how 1 technological advance can help create employ- : ment and can have positive employment effects. I will deal with that sensitive issue a little later. 
It was also announced last week that more than $ 16m will be spent by Telecom in the next few years with the establishment of new headquarters in Perth. This will help overcome the present problems of administration with staff being housed in a number of separate locations in the city. Also in the current financial year, Telecom will spend close to $ 100m in Western Australia, just on new works to provide new services. This includes a new $2m building at Hamersley, expenditure of $8.5m on enlarging country telephone exchanges and expenditure of $ 17.4m devoted to the growth of the rural trunk network. It is these developments in our more remote areas which are absolutely vital to our future development. It is reassuring to know that Telecom has recognised that it must begin longterm planning for the North West Shelf gas project and further expansion in the North West generally as exploration and development increases. I list these expenditure items because many people are always ready to criticise bodies such as Telecom. I just want to say that I congratulate them on the confidence they have placed in Western Australia. I believe that that confidence is well placed and any developments which help to bring the eastern States closer to Western Australia I am sure will be to the great advantage of the eastern States. 
On the vexed question of technology and employment, I think some comment should be made, particularly since Telecom recently was the centre of a national debate on this issue. The resulting strike cost Telecom about $20m. Telecom has come under great criticism because it adhered to certain restrictions regarding staff numbers. I think it is sensible of Telecom to follow its present staff policies. It is essential that Telecom, which has a presence in almost all commercial and public enterprises in Australia, keep its cost down. Therefore, the prices of its services have basically been kept to 1975 levels. This policy of holding prices down quite obviously increases the demand for Telecom's services. I have been advised that Telecom expects a 9 per cent increase in demand by Western Australians next year for its various services. This demand and the maintenance of relatively low costs of communications for industry generally will indirectly and over the longer term do more for employment, particularly in the private sectorthe major employing sector in Australia- than any short-term expansive manpower policy undertaken by Telecom. 
I have already mentioned the direct employment benefits which will flow from the massive equipment investment of Telecom in future years. There are other benefits also which flow from technological advances which the Aus.tralian taxpayers should understand. It was not until 1930 that one could telephone across the Nullarbor but now- this is of great consequence to Western Australians and to expatriate Western Australians- it is possible in off-peak times to telephone the eastern States at a charge of 36c a minute. That is cheaper in current money terms, than it was in 1949. So if we take into account the declining value of money over that period, it is a very massive cut in real terms. That is a great social benefit to the many Western Australians who have their families split among the various States. 
To those who decry technological advances and the fact that Telecom makes profits, I point out a few facts: Firstly, Telecom is required by law to finance a great deal of its capital requirements from its own resources- in other words, not from the Budget and the taxpayer. Of course, many taxpayers do not have phones. So, I think that is equitable. Secondly, Telecom, by its present policies and the use of its own resources, is able to contain the costs of its basic services which have not changed since 1975. In fact it recently has reduced telex charges and next month will proceed with reductions in subscriber trunk dialling charges as promised by the Government. Thirdly, Telecom is able to proceed, with a minimum of political interference, to develop the telecommunications structure of Australia along these professional lines. This has great social advantages for the remote and sparsely populated States, such as Western Australia, and in the long term will have positive employment effects due to the containing of the costs of Aus.tralian industry. 
It is essential that Telecom profits be understood in this context. Its recently announced profit of $ 185m has been ploughed back into the business and is a major reason why basic Telecom charges again will remain unchanged. That is a very significant achievement in times of relatively high inflation. In real terms, of course, these profits and the technological advances that they permit mean that the containing of basic charges is really an effective cost reduction- and this has been occurring since 1975. I think that Telecom should be congratulated on that. 
There is one other matter that I want to raise. It concerns another area of the Minister's responsibility. I refer to the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. A number of my constituents have written to me expressing their concern regarding the number of television shows, and more particularly the station promotion in relation to them, which by any standards would be considered to be not suitable for children but which are shown, if not during official children's viewing time, certainly during the earlier part of the evening when many older children are viewing. I am aware that the Tribunal does have regulations on these matters and that these are observed; but I think that some tightening up could occur. I am informed by the Tribunal that there is no strict definition of 'children' by age classification. I think such a definition would be very difficult to formulate, but surely some clearer definition is required to meet the specific critical viewing times allotted to different audiences. 
Finally. I say that those censored 'R' films which are shown from 8.30 p.m. onwards are shown too early in the evening. Many children are watching television at that time. I think an X' classification should be placed on those films and they should be shown from 10 p.m. or some later hour onwards, much later than the present time of 8.30 p.m. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)  - 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I welcome the opportunity to enter this debate because, in my opinion, wages policy is one area of economic management, along with several others, where the Opposition is particularly vulnerable. Its plans to argue for full wage indexation reflect the general principle on which it bases its whole approach to opposition. That is, in the light of the economic difficulties facing this country it chooses to indulge in popular rather than proper economic policies and be all things to all men. That reflects an attitude which brought Australia to the economic brink several years ago, and it is an attitude which is as irrelevant and improper today as it was then. The Opposition does not seem to realise that real wage increases generally accompany economic growth. They result from economic growth. In the absence of productivity growth, wage increases lead only to cost increases, cost inflation and unemployment. Nowhere in its economic policies, particularly in the area of wages policy, does it argue for restraint, although all the respectable bodies of economic opinion around the world say that in economies such as Australia restraint is absolutely necessary, particularly in the wages area. 
The Labor Party seeks continued expansion in overall demand management; yet surely its own experience should show that that is no longer an appropriate policy. I remind the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  that Labor's deficit budgeting led to record inflation rates, record interest rates and record income tax increases. Into this vicious circle entered a permissive wages policy which saw average weekly earnings rise by 28 per cent in 1974, a time of record unemployment and a time when consumer prices rose by 16 per cent, and national economic growth was zero. Its wages policy was disastrous. Even its own Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  pointed this out. Labor's policy has not changed. I quote from the Reserve Bank's annual report for 1976, which stated: 
The Australian economy has been tightened and strengthened since the unprecedented developments of 1974. In the twelve months to December 1974, average weekly earnings rose by 28 per cent, consumer prices by 16 per cent, and so real wages by some 10 per cent- cramming into twelve months the normal trend growth of real wages accruing in about three years; and this in a year in which average productivity fell as output contracted. 
Of course, real wage increases, if matched by productivity improvement, are quite right and proper, but in the absence of any comparable productivity gains they only add to money costs, with employers looking to other factors of production. Hence we have the reason for Labor Treasurer Crean 's statement that one man's pay rise is another man's job. That is going to haunt the Labor Party for a long while. 
I remind the honourable member also that his present Leader said something similar when he was Treasurer. Unless inflation is controlled, and this can be done by restoring real wages to a realistic level, there will be no productive investment and no sustainable employment increases. The whole question of factor shares is absolutely critical to improved economic performance in this country. That is a view shared seemingly by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, who served on the Reserve Bank Board while at the same time being  President  of the Australia Labor Party. What has the Reserve Bank said, apparently with his approval? In its 1976 report it stated: 
The need is for the main arms of stabilisation policywages policy, budgetary policy and monetary policy- to keep moving firmly towards restraint so that the subsidence of inflation in Australia does not lag long after other countries. 
The Reserve Bank report for 1977 stated something very similar, and I quote: 
The steepness of the rise in numbers unemployed during the initial part of the most recent economic downturn appears, in part, to have been related to the way in which increases in labour costs in 1973 and 1974 outstripped the increase in final prices of goods and services. To some extent, unemployment has stayed high because real labour costs have remained high. 
The Reserve Bank has again stated the same proposition in 1978. One has to recognise, as does the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, that a country such as Australia must continue to follow a restrictive fiscal and monetary policy because of the shift which has taken place in our key economic relationships. In this regard, the Reserve Bank in its 1978 report referred to a number of distortions. It referred to the large increases in labour's share of the national product and the corresponding declining share of profits and therefore investment as a percentage of national product. 
Unrealistically high real wage levels comprise a major barrier to domestic demand expansion in this country. Even if the Opposition will not accept the view of the Reserve Bank, perhaps it will listen to what the OECD has said. In September last year the Secretary General,  Mr Van  Lennep, addressing the Council of Europe, stated: 
Demand management policies should ... be directed towards achieving a moderate but sustained expansion of demand, strong enough to permit a progressive reduction in unemployment, but not so strong as to set off a resurgence of inflation. 
He qualified that statement by mentioning a few things relevant to the present Australian experience when he said:  . . it was recognised that in many countries the necessary recovery in productive investment was unlikely to be forthcoming without a shift in underlying cost-price relationships in favour of profits. In particular where there was also a need to improve the balance of payments there would be only limited scope for increases in public current expenditure and private consumption. 
That view was sustained also in the OECD's economic survey of Australia in April this year.  Mr Van  Lennep went on to say, referring to successful OECD countries:  . . where effective stabilisation policies have been pursued, it has proved possible to hold down production costs in relation to prices and thus pave the way for the necessary improvement in the rate of return on capital. This has generally meant that at some point wages have risen less fast than prices, particularly in countries needing to improve their competitive position in world markets. 
In other words, the best way to beat inflation and return employment prospects to this country is through the real wages policy which is being pursued by this Government. It is the only sensible approach to this subject. I think  Mr Van  Lennep 's comments sum up exactly the Australian experience, indicate that the wages policy of this Government is internationally accepted as being the correct one and reject the kind of proposition contained in this matter of public importance. 
I regard the attitude of the Labor Party and the unions in the area of wages policy as being extremely selfish. At a time of high unemployment they seek further real wage increases- the very thing that has caused many of the people they are meant to represent to be out of work now. Their attitude to real wages is not only selfish but also flies in the face of respected economic opinion throughout Australia and internationally. In these times, if Labor pursued such a policy in government it would have the same effect as before. It would throw more people out of work. The attitude of the Opposition to wages is particularly interesting in view of the current debate on technology and unemployment. The Opposition claims that automation is taking jobs but it also agrees with full wage indexation from a position where Australia has a very substantial gap between the growth of real wages and the growth of productivity. The Opposition does not see these matters as being related in any waythat is, the price of labour and the demand for labour as against other factors of production. It was very obvious that technology based on cheap energy or on capital-labour ratios reflecting real wage levels of some years ago had become less profitable. One could therefore ask: Is it surprising that a good deal of business investment in the past two years has gone towards increasing the ratio of capital to labour as a response to the change in their relative prices? 
The action of proposing for discussion a matter of public importance such as this is, I think, a nonsense. It ignores economic reality and would be disastrous if translated into policy. I refer the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to the share of wages in our national gross domestic product. Between 1968-69 and 1972-73, the profit share was 17.5 per cent. In 1974-75, it was 14.2 per cent. It fell to 14 per cent in the following year. In 1976-77 it was 14.4 per cent. In the September quarter this year it was 14 per cent. That constitutes a major barrier to expansion in this country. It leads to investment in machinery and mitigates against further employment of people in Australia. It is about time the Labor Party started thinking in terms of the unemployed instead of those people presently being looked after by a selfish trade union movement. 
-My grievance today is related to a question of fundamental importance to the future of a healthy and stable social system in this country. It is a question which is seldom debated in this Parliament, although I must say that the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  has expressed in the past his concern in this area. I refer to the. possibility of a family policy being introduced in Australia. In my opinion, any government which ignored its responsibility regarding the preservation of the family unit as being the basis of a healthy society would be doing this country a great disservice. Such a policy does not as yet exist. If families happen to be better off at the moment as a result of the amalgam of policies put forward from time to time from the variety of portfolios which affect family circumstances, I say that it is due more to good luck than to good management. 
At present there is an ad hoc approach to this question. Certainly, individual Ministers could argue that within their particular areas of responsibility, when initiating new measures, they take account of their effect on individuals and families. That may well be the case. But I suggest that at present there is no co-ordinated approach to the problem of how our families fare as a result of any package of policies- whether they occur through time or at a particular time, such as Budget time. Many portfolios have an indirect effect on family circumstances. But even if we confine ourselves to those departments which have a direct effect on family circumstances, both financially and legally, one can see that there are several departments which should share a coordinated approach to family preservation policies. I refer to the Treasury, through its taxation system; the Department of Social Security, through its income support system; the Department of Education, through its responsibility to maintain freedom of choice in education; the Department of Health; the Department of Aboriginal Affairs; the Attorney-General's Department; the Department of Veteran's Affairs; and the department responsible for housing. These are just eight departments which, through Government policies, have a direct effect on family circumstances. One can ask: Do they act in a coordinated way with respect to support for the preservation of the family unit? 
-I do not think they do and the honourable member for Swan agrees with me. As I suggested earlier, if changes to direct taxation levels, changes to the health insurance scheme, changes in pensions or family allowances, changes in education funding and other measures all combine either to improve or disadvantage the circumstances of individual families, it is more a coincidence than reasoned social policy. 
Quite clearly, therefore, as part of a national family policy, it is necessary for government policies which directly affect the family unit to be subjected to a family impact statement. That was recommended by the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. It has been publicly supported in this place by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson).  I am sure that this Government would be sympathetic to any suggestion aimed at preserving the family unit. Governments are very long on rhetoric in this regard and many leaders speak very emotionally about the declining state of the family in a trendy and permissive world but nothing ever seems to be done about it. My concern in this matter is based more on moral and social grounds than on other considerations. Certainly, it could be argued as part of a population policy for Australia but primarily I would support such policies simply because of my belief in the concept of the family unit. Government policies should be tailored to meet the dictates of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with respect to families. That, in part, states:   . . to protect the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society. 
That is the basis of my contention that Australia should have a national family policy. Apart from the introduction of family impact statements, more positive steps could be taken through the income support system or the taxation system. Nowhere is the neglect of the family unit better seen than in the area of tax policy. Governments emphasise the needs of individuals in both the taxation and the income support areas. They budget according to the needs of the State. But the needs of the State and the needs of the family are not incompatible and both can be reasonably catered for, even in times of economic restraint. In the area of income support, selectivity in transfer payments can be applied or, through the taxation system, the family could receive some recognition rather than just individuals, without prejudicing fiscal policy. But at the moment, there is no question as to where the family unit stands. 
If one compares the various income alternatives of a man working on average award rates, a woman working on average award rates, and a couple with one income and the benefits of rebates accruing to their family of say, two, three or four children, there is no doubt that the family group is disadvantaged in relation to others. Governments can ensure that whilst women who want to work can work an economic and social framework can be established whereby those mothers who do not want to work should not be forced to do so. But more than this, governments should be able to ensure that the position of the single-income family should not progressively deteriorate and should not be discriminated against by default, by lack of government concern, or by lack of compensating fiscal action compared to the two-income family. In this context, I think we should recall that the Henderson inquiry identified the large, single-income family as a major poverty group in society. Of course, the two-income family will always be better off. I do not quarrel with that. I am concerned that governments could, almost by accident and in the absence of family policy, create a positive disincentive for those young families at the margin, where a choice can be made, who wish to opt for the one-income situation. 
Because the personal tax system is based on the individual rather than the family as a tax unit, the position of the single-income family becomes very dependent on rebate systems which historically do not cater adequately for rising costs of dependency or for the declining value of money. There are many ways of correcting the relative disadvantage of single-income families. Governments should ensure that for families at the margin where there are dependent children, a genuine choice ought to be available as to whether one or both parents work. At present, I fear that that choice is not being given and this constitutes a continuing and growing threat to the family unit. In the field of taxation, I would recommend that the Government investigate the possibility of allowing single-income families, if they wish, to split that single income between husband and wife for taxation purposes. This is better than a system of increasing the spouse rebate for those who have the care of children because it creates an element of horizontal equity which does not exist under the present system where some income earners are able to split their incomes and others, with similar family responsibilities, cannot split their incomes. This system would have the effect of not acting as a disincentive for those married women with children who choose to enter the work force. But it does recognise the role of the mother who stays at home to care for children. It recognises that the raising of children is work of great social and national significance. It is a more important job than most of us have in the official work force. I would submit that mothers are probably the hardest worked and most under-recognised group in society. 
I am not saying that this income splitting for taxation purposes should be done simply to- provide a wage or a return for a mother. It is not that kind of job. What I am saying is that singleincome families, if they wish, should be allowed to treat their income in a way which will ensure that those mothers who wish to stay at home and raise their families should not be prevented by financial circumstances from doing so. If this was introduced, together with compensating fiscal action with regard to the spouse rebate, I think the constraints placed on the Federal Budget would be minimal. Of course, I am not suggesting that governments can legislate for happiness or for happy marriages. That is quite impossible. That depends on many other factors outside any kind of official control. But governments can and should do all in their power to overcome those financial circumstances which might cause undue stress to be placed on families and which prevent mothers having a free choice as to whether or not they can stay at home and care for their children. 
I strongly recommend in the context of these remarks that the Government consider the introduction of a national family policy as soon as possible. I probably will be branded as being out-of-date, old-fashioned, not trendy enough or permissive enough, but I submit very strongly that it is absolutely critical for the future stability and health of Australian society that governments as last begin to recognise the role of the family unit in Australian society. If they do that and act accordingly throughout the' course of their legislative programs, I think this country will be much better off. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister will be aware of the recent breakdown of the Middle East peace negotiations. Has the Minister been kept informed as to the progress of these negotiations, the reasons for their breakdown and the basis of President Carter's proposed trip to Cairo and Jerusalem this week? Will the Minister inform the House of his assessment of the possibility of this impasse being successfully resolved, thereby allowing the negotiations for a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt to proceed? 
-I second the motion moved by the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  The motion has been proposed because it is obvious that the abortion business in Australia is flourishing and expanding at a time when medical technology has permitted outstanding achievements in reducing both maternal and infant mortality. I start at this point simply to emphasise the remarks of my colleague the honourable member for Hume that we are now paying medical benefits for procedures which do not seem to satisfy the test of medical necessity. 
The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  is on record as saying that medical necessity is an important criterion for the inclusion of particular medical procedures in the medical benefits system. In this context I refer to abortion statistics in Australia. The Royal Commission on Human Relationships estimated that 60,000 abortions occur annually. In the three years between 1975-76 and 1977-78 the number of abortions related to item 6469 rose by 30 per cent to 50,900. Of course, the real number of abortions in Australia is much higher. It is estimated to be at least 80,000 per annum and perhaps even more. But given even the lower number, the ratio of abortions to live births in Australia in 1977-78 is about one to four. Does this criterion of medical necessity justify such a high ratio? I doubt it. 
In 1977 more than 96 per cent of the 3,590 abortions performed in South Australia were performed on grounds other than physical necessity. It is harder to get an abortion there than in the more populous Menhennitt and Levine States where the private abortion clinics operate. Medical technology has advanced to a stage where abortions, if they are to proliferate, must be justified on other than a purely physical necessity basis. Maternal mortality rates in Australia have fallen steadily since the turn of the century and in 1976 stood at 0.13 deaths per 1,000 live births. So we have to look elsewhere for reasons for the proliferation of abortions in Australia in recent years. In my view we need look no further than the legal precedents established by Menhennitt and Levine and the way in which the States have very loosely administered the laws arising from those judgmentsjudgments which in themselves opened the abortion gate and which are now seen to be challengeable. We can do nothing about those laws or the way in which they are administered. 
If we are concerned with the present level of abortions in Australia and the way in which they are financed, we are confined to acting on the only grounds available to us- that is, tightening the use of taxpayers money for these purposes. I simply say that if medical necessity is regarded by the Minister as being an important criterion for the payment of medical benefits for pathology services, health screening purposes and other medical procedures, how much more important is it for this test to be applied to abortions? We are referring not only to item 6469 in the schedule but also to other items covering procedures which may result in abortion. 
At present in Australia we have, according to people such as  Dr Wainer,  a situation where abortions are available on demand and State laws are being violated. We do not wish to play the role of the major provider of funds for the private abortion industry according to laws which abortionists say they can ride a horse through. We only wish to stipulate those conditions under which benefits will be payable for certain abortions. We have proposed this motion because we are very concerned at a situation where the great majority of the 60,000 lives being aborted in Australia are obviously being aborted for maternal and societal convenience, not because of medical necessity. This is not only massively inhumane but also, in the terms of this motion, taxpayers funds should not be used to finance the costs of removing human lives simply because they are viewed by others as being either mistakes or inconveniences. Put quite frankly, the present administration of State laws is permitting abortion on demand and we in the Commonwealth Parliament are giving official sanction to this. Because .of the nature of the medical procedure which is the subject of this motion, the question of medical necessity requires each of us to answer certain fundamental questions about the general issue of abortion before we can reasonably cast a vote on the motion. What do we mean by acceptable necessity in the case of abortions? To me this involves value judgments over and above those which apply to other medical procedures, because a third party is involved. 
If one can easily live with the judgments of Menhennitt and Levine which determine the legality of abortions in the States, one cannot logically believe that a separate life begins at conception and, therefore, one must believe that abortion on demand does not impinge on the rights of anyone but the mother. If this is the belief of any honourable members in the House, so be it; they should oppose the motion. After all, this motion quite clearly differs from the principles of these judgments in the way we intend to restrict the circumstances under which medical benefits are paid in respect of certain abortions. We do this because in practice necessity is no longer used as a criterion for abortions as under Menhennitt it is almost impossible to sustain a prosecution and abortion practitioners maintain that this law is unenforceable. Those honourable members who believe that life begins at conception and that there should not be abortion on demand must support this motion. After all, abortion on request, by definition, does not imply medical necessity even though it involves a critical medical procedure involving destruction of life. These two opposing views start from two distinct and irreconcilable premises, and from those initial starting points the two arguments cannot logically come together. The vote of an honourable member will quite clearly reflect his view, first, on the concept of foetal life and, secondly, his views on the sanctity of that life. An honourable member's vote should not accommodate separate views on each of those questions. 
My position is very clear. My support for this motion stems from my belief that a separate life exists from conception. Therefore, I argue that that life must be respected and protected from that moment. My attitude to Commonwealth appropriations in this area starts from that position. Strict medical necessity is a sensible criterion for spending taxpayers' money in the health area. It is a critically important criterion for a procedure involving a decision about the future of life. There is no doubt that life begins with conception. I wish to quote from the report of the New Zealand Royal Commission into Contraception, Sterilisation and Abortion which in March 1977 stated: 
From a biological point of view there is no argument as to when life begins. Evidence was given to us by eminent scientists from all over the world. None of them suggested that human life begins at any time other than at conception. 
The Royal Commission on Human Relationships said much the same. I submit that this evidence dictates the right of the foetus to be born, the rights of the mother and the obligations of doctors and legislators. It is my view, based on my belief that a separate life follows conception, that the right of the foetus to be born transcends all other rights, excepting the most extreme cases of risk of the life of the mother. This influences the obligations of legislators regarding appropriation of funds. In all the recent criticism of this motion regarding women's rights and doctors' responsibilities not one critic has yet put in a plea for the foetus. We have heard much from doctors objecting to this motion on confidentiality and other grounds. But do doctors not also have obligations in the vital question we pose? I refer them to the Declaration of Geneva which was adopted by the World Medical Association in September 1948 and which states in part: 
I will maintain the utmost respect for human life, from the time of conception; even under threat, I will not use my medical knowledge contrary to the laws of humanity. 
I believe that that statement is contained within the code of ethics of the Australian Medical Association. I would also mention that the original oath proclaimed by Hippocrates, which has expressed the ideals of medicine for 24 centuries, makes special reference against abortion. Is that not relevant to the case we put regarding the funding of abortions and the one exception we pose for acceptable funding? The 1949 International Code of Medical Ethics and the Declaration of Oslo adopted in 1970 by the World Medical Association contained statements similar to those in the 1948 Declaration. Regarding the rights of the unborn, I think in this year, the International Year of the Child, when we are celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the adoption by the United Nations of the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, we should have a close look at that Declaration. Its preamble states: 
The child, by reason of his physical and mental immaturity, needs special safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth. 
What a tragedy it would be if this Parliament in the International Year of the Child ignored that declaration and voted against this motion. Quite clearly from the passages I have quoted from the Geneva and United Nations declarations it can be seen that the obligations of the medical profession and the rights of the unborn sit together and together constitute an obligation for legislators. But there are other rights to consider also- the rights of the pregnant woman. If we accept the right to life of the unborn and the right to freedom of choice of the mother, we have a real dilemma if we accept, as I do, the concept of foetal life. If we accept that the foetus lives, the rights of both the foetus and the mother cannot be protected at once; and I give my priority to the unrepresented and unprotected unborn, with the exception stipulated in the motion. That is my value judgment based on my belief that a separate life exists after conception. 
I have said that this is a difficult issue for those who are liberal in the true sense of the word. I have received hundreds of letters of abuse from people who suggest that I should keep my morals to myself. To some extent they are right. Liberals should not seek to impose laws dictating the private morality of individuals. Individuals should make their own judgments dictated by their own values. That is a classical liberal posture. But this very happy position cannot be maintained if it affects another individual, and if one accepts the concept of foetal life this freedom of choice has to be moderated by other conditions. The criminal code imposes society's contemporary morality against certain acts such as robbery, murder, rape and so forth because these acts affect another party. So it is in this case when one accepts the concept of foetal life. This difficult decision of the woman affects another personthe unborn life. 
As one who accepts that life begins with conception, I can live with the liberal tradition and I can stand firmly against abortions which are not deemed to be medically necessary. There is no conflict for me, just as there is no conflict for those who accept this right of the woman to abort when they believe that a separate life does not exist from conception. But these two viewpoints cannot be reconciled as long as there is a different opinion on foetal life. That is the point of departure between those who seek to support and those who seek to oppose this motion. 
Although there are many popular arguments being put against this motion which in my view can all be answered, I do not have the time to answer them here. I hope that later in the debate I will be given the chance to answer them. 
I want to conclude by saying that the number of abortions in Australia is rising at an alarming rate. Fewer and fewer can be justified in terms of strict medical necessity, in terms of morality or in terms of the rights and obligations of all parties to the procedure; and these arguments should all determine our attitude to funding. This raises deep moral questions revolving around the legality of these procedures. Let me just say in support of the honourable member for Hume that these laws can and should be challenged. But even if they are not, this Parliament is under no obligation to appropriate funds simply because a given procedure is deemed to be legal. It is ludicrous that this Parliament has legislated to ban private abortion clinics in the Australian Capital Territory and yet the same Parliament pays handsomely for the same kind of clinics to operate in the States. I have raised other questions relating to the rights and obligations of the parties involved in an abortion and they lead me to conclude that this Parliament has an obligation to act within its constitutional constraints to restrict the payment of medical benefits for unnecessary abortions as this is the only way we can challenge what has become a massive abuse of the sanctity of human life. I ask all honourable members to support this motion. If they do not, this Comonwealth Parliament will be seen to be supporting and giving official sanction to abortion on demand. I reject that proposition totally. I second the motion. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. Is it a fact that illegal immigrants entering Australia now represent 10 per cent of the total planned annual net immigration rate? Does this not represent a substantial interference with the proper planning and administration of this country's immigration policies? What action is the Government taking to overcome this problem? In particular, has the Minister considered the recommendations of the joint management review team on temporary entry and control functions? If so, when can action be expected? 
-In my view, this is one of the most important reports that the Parliament has received. Through the Parliament's response, it has the capacity to make it one of the most effective reports to be tabled in this place. The report is important because it gives proper appreciation of and recognition to the grave responsibility that rests upon Parliament to scrutinise properly the administration of the funds provided to it by the public. I will not speak at length on the report at this stage, but there are a couple of points that I wish to stress. Firstly, whether or not the report is to have any practical effect is largely up to this Parliament, and I urge all honourable members to study our recommendations closely and do what they can to give effect to them. As a first step I ask the Government to give a guarantee that at least recommendation No. 1 will be agreed to in order that the Parliament may give a full expression of its views on this subject during the autumn sitting. Secondly, I call on all honourable members of this chamber who are interested in parliamentary reform to strive through the channels open to them to achieve the changes in parliamentary procedures that are necessary to give effect to the Committee's basic recommendations. 
I am sure that no member of this chamber would disagree with me when I say that to date this Parliament has exercised no effective ongoing scrutiny of public expenditure.There is an occasional ad hoc inquiry into specific programs, but no more than that. In other words, to date this Parliament and the Parliaments before it have failed to meet their obligations with respect to a major aspect of Parliament's work. Our procedures to oversee public expenditure have been farcical, and Parliament has played an endorsement role only. To this time the elected representatives of the people have been unable to scrutinise effectively the expenditure of those funds provided by the people. The report realistically recognises that Parliament cannot play any significant control function in the public expenditure process, and it concentrates on our capacity to scrutinise and to provide an element of discipline to those who spend from the public purse. Paragraph 29 of the report states that the broad objectives of financial scrutiny are to safeguard expenditure of taxpayers' money, to promote and encourage efficiency in administration, and to influence priorities and policies. According to Bernard Crick in his book  The Reform of Parliament,  the end purpose of the work of scrutiny is: 
Influence, not direct power, advice, not command; criticism, not obstruction . . . and publicity, not secrecy. 
The report clearly shows that the present procedures of the Parliament, together with the information made available to it, ensure that it is not competent effectively to influence, to advise or to criticise public expenditure proposals at any of the formulation, implementation or review stages of the public expenditure process. The members of this Parliament, particularly those of this Chamber, have over the years done precious little to rectify this situation. This House last revised its Standing Orders in connection with the 
Budget in 1962 and the Joint Committee of Public Accounts last reported on the form of the Budget documents 25 years ago. In other words, the House of Representatives has stood still while the Executive and the Senate have both improved their own status, function and processes with respect to the public expenditure cycle. 
I have said already that the honourable members of this House should work through their own channels and their parliamentary reform committees to bring forward revised procedures for this chamber. I hope that we all do this. Our Estimates debates these days provide the best example of the impotence of this chamber with respect to the way in which we examine public expenditure. In these debates, which are based on inadequate information, honourable members simply make second reading speeches which concentrate almost exclusively on political policy making rather than on the Estimates themselves. 
As our report says, the timing of the Estimates debates ensures that they achieve nothing because they are too late to affect the present Budget and too early to affect the next one. In fact, while we are debating a budget over which we have no influence, the Executive is busy gathering together the forward estimates for the next Budget. That is a process in which we have no role either. It is a pity that we have, in a de facto way, handed this review role to the Senate, particularly when most of the Ministry is involved in this chamber. The Estimates should therefore be subjected to detailed examination by this chamber through sophisticated expenditure committees. I am particularly attracted to the need to provide Parliament with both the information and the procedures it needs to examine long-term overall patterns of public expenditure at a time of each year when some impact may be had on this Budget decision-making process. 
This broader view of expenditure patterns, based on a two to three year perspective, needs to be given more consideration by Parliament rather than, as occurs at present, expenditure being viewed solely in terms of short-term economy strategy and in terms of the politics of individual expenditure votes. At present governments are being placed in invidious and almost impossible long-term budgetary positions because of decisions of previous governments which have had no regard for the longer term implications of their ad hoc budgetary decision making. Even if the Parliament can do nothing in the decision-making process it should at least be given the wherewithall to examine, to understand and to comment on these developments. As the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  just mentioned, with both the revenue and the expenditure sides of the Budget being locked in increasingly by indexation, with longer lead times being involved in certain major expenditure items, and with the Budget assuming more and more the role of establishing longer-term irrevocable social parameters, it is becoming much more important for Parliament to play a more significant role in examining the expenditure process within a longer-term time frame and at times which permit it to have some effective input. 
I agree with the need to place emphasis on longer-term Budget planning, perhaps on a rolling triennial basis, and the suggestion that the focal point in the expenditure process should therefore be moved from the annual Budget. The provision of forward projections of expenditure requirements would require this Parliament to receive much more sophisticated information than it now does if it is to become more responsible in its present day expenditure planning. As I have said, both the present and previous governments have placed themselves in a very awkward budgetary situation. In my opinion, this Parliament has not had a full appreciation of the longterm effects on expenditure planning which have resulted from the present short-term ad hoc annual approach. An improvement in the procedures of Parliament and the information available to it would enable the Parliament more fully to examine, to understand, to influence and to scrutinise these developments at the various stages of the expenditure process. 
The concept of program statements, as mentioned in the report, is absolutely essential to the review of economy and efficiency in public expenditure. This review function of the Parliament can readily be enhanced. This is certainly the area in which the Parliament can be an important and sobering influence on those who both establish and administer expenditure priorities. Although program statements may not be universally applied, I think some of the inquiries already conducted by the Expenditure Committee of this House over the past few years have shown the value of this kind of approach to review work. In evidence presented some of the spending departments welcomed the concept of program statements. I believe that this Parliament should certainly support the recommendation which seeks to encourage the development of program statements by all departments. 
Time will not permit me to say more at this stage. I hope to have the opportunity of speaking in detail on this subject later in this session if the Government accepts our first recommendation. In my view the recommendations of the Committee are very modest and they should not be objectionable to the government of the day. They would ensure that planning and review of the expenditure process would take place within a much improved time perspective and that the capacity of Parliament to scrutinise such expenditure effectively would be greatly enhanced. Whether this occurs is completely up to the individual members of this Parliament. I ask all honourable members to study in detail the report, together with the associated evidence and to do what they can to ensure that effect is given to these recommendations. 
I make one further comment which is particularly relevant to the  Chairman  of our Committee. If we as private members of this Parliament are to refine the procedures of this House further, as has occurred for example with the development of legislation committees, and if we are as a result to play a more meaningful role in the expenditure process as a result of new procedures and the more sophisticated information which will be made available to us, members of this House will require more staffing assistance than we presently have. If we are to be professional in our approach to both our legislative and review functions in the years ahead, we will need to have a more professional staff establishment for each honourable member of this House. The work load of members of Parliament has increased substantially in recent years. Yet each year the Rumuneration Tribunal continues to grant us pay increases rather than to concentrate on giving us those resources, such as additional staff, which would help us to do our jobs better. Only if this occurs will we as members of Parliament be able to respond positively to reports such as this one and thereby strengthen the ever weakening role of the Parliament against the Executive. 
Finally, I also congratulate the  Chairman  of the Committee for the leadership he has given in compiling a report which has been quite a difficult one to compile and which has taken a lot of consideration by the Expenditure Committee. I thank the House. 
I speak tonight about a subject that has been fairly widely reported but has not yet been discussed in this chamber. I refer to the tragedy which occurred off the Malaysian coast last Saturday. I refer to a newspaper article on this subject which states: 
A total of 104 Vietnamese refugees drowned when their boat capsized as a Malaysian patrol boat towed it out to sea. 
Refugee officials said the topheavy boat was crammed with 227 people. 
The refugees had just completed a nightmare voyage from Vietnam during which 10 died of thirst. 
A senior official was quoted as saying: 
This is scandalous and the whole world should know what is happening. 
Sadly, this is not the first tragedy of this kind. I wish to know just what exactly has gone wrong with modern day values. Why is it that this kind of thing can happen today? In this chamber, we talk of saving whales, forests and buildings, but we hear very little about the possibility of saving refugees. 
Who are these refugees? They are almost treated as non-persons. I wish to know why it is that the world is turning its back on them. It seems to me that notwithstanding our own commendable record in this area, these people are being treated like expendable livestock. It has been said that up to 50,000 refugees have drowned, starved or died of thirst at sea. They live in a state of utter deprivation on board these boats. They are refused permission to land. They are towed out to sea. They are shoved from country to country and left to the mercy of nature. They are allowed to become political issues and are treated as such without regard to more humane considerations. 
People seem to forget that refugees are people. Politicians, regrettably in some of the parliaments of this country, have advocated that Australia should also treat them harshly, tow them out to sea and let them become someone else's responsibility. Thank heavens the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has adopted a more responsible and humane position. Public reaction in Australia also has been hostile. I have often had it put to me that we should tow them out to sea because their bona fides are suspect, or for even more sinister and despicable reasons. When I ask these people whether they would prefer refugees to be drowned, shot or starved, they have no answer. When I ask them what they would do if they had to act as Minister for a day when this eventuality arose, they still have no answer. But still the callous debate goes on in this country and overseas. 
I do not suggest that the Malaysian authorities set out to allow this tragedy to occur. What I do say is that this tragedy highlights the enormity of the human tragedy surrounding the refugee problem. It also highlights the fact that irresponsible and callous public opinion can lead to reckless and inhumane official action. I hope that we in Australia will think about what has happened because we may have to face this situation in the future. Certainly, we in Australia wish that this problem had not occurred. We wish that we did not have to respond to it. I bet that the refugees wish they did not have this problem. But there is a problem. In the past we have responded responsibly and we must continue to do so. We have recognised that the only way to take responsible action is to try to take action at the source, not at the destination. But sometimes this is not possible. 
On a per capita basis we have a better record on refugee intake than any other country. In answer to the honourable member for Hunter, I for one am proud of that. We have recognised that, when boat people arrive, the options open to this country are limited. Although we would prefer the controlled refugee intake which is now occurring, we must be prepared also for the eventuality of the uncontrolled situation. Thankfully it may not occur because, for the first time in months, it appears that the refugee flow is slowing down. In a number of South East Asian countries, refugees are being resettled faster than new arrivals are replacing them. But if this uncontrolled situation does occur again, I hope that the recent tragedy in Malaysia will help Australians to understand that the refugee problem is a human problem of massive dimensions. I hope that it will help parliamentarians here to understand that, although this may be a sensitive political issue for them, it does require a bipartisan, non-political, humanitarian approach. I hope that the Australian public will understand that the Australian population itself has a substantial refugee composition from Europe. I speak of the Hungarians, the Poles and the Czechs. What is so different about the present refugees that allows them to be treated differently. I shudder to think! 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-by leave-I had not intended to speak on this matter but I had the misfortune to be listening to the broadcast in my office when the shameful political speech was made by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins).  He started off by saying that as a result of the last electoral distribution Western Australia was left with just one member of the House of Representatives from the Australian Labor Party. I agree that this is a lamentable performance, but I think that instead of looking at the redistribution as the cause of that situation the honourable member ought to be looking at the candidates and the kind of policies Labor put to the Western Australian people. He might then find out the reason why the Labor candidates were slaughtered. 
What really concerns me is the suggestion that I carried some kind of influence with the distribution commissioners in Western Australia. I would have thought that the honourable member for Fremantle' would have done his homework before he started making those kinds of very serious allegations in this chamber. I certainly did make a submission, as did many others in Western Australia. The final result was vastly different from the proposals that I put to the commissioners. I am pleased to say it was much better than what I submitted. It is a shameful state of affairs when this gentleman can get up in this chamber and cast aspersions of the kind that he has. He cast aspersions on the integrity of leading public servants in Western Australia. Their records show that they conduct themselves in a fair and proper manner in discharging their duties. I think it does the honourable member no credit at all to speak today in the way he has spoken. I am not surprised but I am very disappointed. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- Redistribution is a most serious matter. There was a Royal Commission relating to a recent redistribution. As a result a Minister of the Government was removed from office. Let us make it very clear that there was clear and substantial evidence of impropriety. We on this side of the House still feel that the central figure involved was made the scapegoat for somebody else. In my own electorate boundaries were altered, not because of any submission by myself but because of a member of the Government making a submission. I agreed with the original proposal but it was subsequently changed because a member of the Government asked that my electorate be altered, and it was so altered. That is how unfair the situation has always been. The honourable member for 
Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  is perfectly right in talking about  Mr Nicholls  in the terms-he did. He has a duty to perform. The Royal Commission evidence- as stated iri the Parliament- shows that  Mr Coleman,  who was the commissioner in Queensland, had received a telephone call from his Western Australian counterpart,  Mr Bobbie  Nicholls. He telephoned from Perth to say: 
Frank, I don 't think much of your name of Gold Coast. 
He said words to the effect: 'Frank, I am sure you had better make it Fadden, Fadden, Fadden'. Why would a person from Western Australia be so interested to ring somebody in Queensland to suggest the very thing that ultimately caused this Royal Commission? He did it well before  Senator Withers  did it, as was reported in this House on 24 August 1978. I remind the House that  Mr Nicholls  is based in  Senator Withers  's home State and, as an officer of the Australian Electoral Office, at that time would have been directly responsible to the senator as Minister for Administrative Services. I also remind the House that it was only three weeks later- I ask honourable senators to bear that in mind- that  Senator Withers  made exactly the same sort of representation to  Mr Pearson,  as a result of which  Senator Withers  lost his position in the Ministry. My colleague, the honourable member for Fremantle, is fully entitled to raise the propriety of the issue here. It is important that we get this issue before the public and alert the Minister for Administrative Services  (Mr McLeay)  who has a public responsibility and a duty - 
It is important that he get his facts right. 
I support the Appropriation Bills now before the House, not because I necessarily agree with all of the components of the additional expenditure sought in these Bills but basically because I support the need for the kind of restraint referred to by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  when he introduced these Bills. In his second reading speech the Minister said: 
Notwithstanding the additional appropriations now sought, current expectations are that total outlays Tor 1978-79, including those financed from special appropriations, will exceed the Budget estimate by only a relatively small margin. This reflects the Government's continued adherence to its policies of restraint in public sector spending. 
That is a strategy which I have endorsed since I have been a member of parliament. My concern is rather whether or not the Government has the courage to give effect to its rhetoric. Certainly the rates of increase in budgetary outlays have been reduced substantially over the past three years and the Budget deficit has been held. But overall, notwithstanding the direct tax reforms of the Government and the expenditure restraint, the fact remains that the ratio of total public sector outlays as a percentage of gross domestic product- for all levels of government both for Budget and non-Budget sub-sectors- has not changed dramatically or favourably since the large upswing in 1974-75. In fact, there has been a marginal increase. Although the rate of increase may have slowed, this is not sufficient progress for a government concerned with lowering the overall tax burden, lowering interest rates and encouraging private sector expansion. What these Bills do not tell us, of course, is the extent to which the Budget estimates of revenue and expenditure are being held. 
For the current financial year, from the March figures released several weeks ago, it is obvious that because of outlay overruns and revenue shortfalls this year's deficit will exceed $3 billion. So there will be a substantial overshoot from the Budget estimate of $2.8 billion. If this is the case I submit that it constitutes a very serious threat to economic recovery in Australia. As the public debate is now beginning to realise, a continuation of sizable deficits each year creates an intolerable financing burden for monetary policy which can result only in higher interest rates and higher unemployment. As the Treasury Secretary recently said, there is both a flow and a stock dimension to the deficit financing problem and governments can come to grips with this only if the deficit is reduced. 
An even more serious threat is the possibility of a fiscal blowout next financial year unless the Government exercises real fiscal restraint in the coming Budget. If this occurs, the very substantial economic progress made by the Government over the past three and a half years will go out the window. There have been gains and even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  is acknowledging that an economic recovery is under way. Inflation has been steadily reduced. Nonfarm production statistics continue to strengthen. Private capital expenditure has strengthened considerably. Retail sales have strengthened. Civilian wage and salary earner employmentseasonally adjusted- has risen steadily throughout the present fiscal year. Forward indicators of private dwelling activity have strengthened. Company profitability and surveys of business opinion indicate that the private sector now believes that the recession has passed and the narrowing of the inflation gap between Australia and the major trading nations of the world has seen a strengthening of Australia's balance of trade. Even the  Australian Financial Review,  which is a great friend of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  was prompted recently to state: 
The Australian economy on current indications at last appears to have passed the trough of the recession and to be entering a period of increasing activity and rising business and consumer confidence. 
However, what bothers me, is that having made these gains, the Government may not have the courage to properly control the recovery. Monetary policy, which has been required to carry a heavy burden arising from an endless series of large deficits, is not something which governments can pretend totally to control in the absence of fiscal restraint. The Government cannot at the one time treat the quantity and the price of money as totally independent variables. If the deficit is to be financed in a non-inflationary manner then obviously any money supply blowout will require substantial marketing of Government securities. A failure to do this will inevitably lead to consumer price index increases. In my view the Government placed its total economic strategy at risk over the past 6 months by failing to supply the non-banking private sector with competitive Government securities. 
It is quite unrealistic to adhere to interest rate targets which are incompatible with money supply targets. In my view, the Government, if it is to follow a low interest, low tax and low inflation policy, simply has to follow a tough fiscal policy. If the Government does that it will provide the scope for private sector expansion and the possibility of providing jobs for the unemployed. The only way to solve the present problems of the Australian economy is to remove the fundamental imbalances in the economy. Some of these such as inflation, international competitiveness, private sector expansion and profitability, can be achieved only by controlling the growth of the public sector and the size of the public sector deficit. We have seen clearly in recent years that massive government expenditure and massive deficits only increase inflation rates, interest rates and unemployment. 
The other major imbalance, the wage-price relationship, is largely outside the control of fiscal policy. But even here I think the Government could expect a more moderate wages policy from the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission if it were seen to be proceeding consistently along a firm fiscal and monetary path.T submit that the Government should continue its present wages policy. I refer to the experience in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development countries. The secretary of that organisation has stated: 
Where effective stabilisation policies have been pursued, it has proved possible to hold down production costs in relation to prices and thus pave the way for the necessary improvement in the rate of return on capital. This has generally meant that at some point wages have risen less fast than prices. 
I mention that because it is necessary for the Australian Government to follow this same line now as it has done in the past. The growth of real wages in relation to productivity in Australia over the past five years has been a major cause of unemployment in recent times. It is about time that the Australian Labor Party, the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and the trade union movement recognised this and started to think of their responsibility to the unemployed as well as to the employed. However, a number of commentators have suggested that this wages policy of the Government should now be abandoned. I think that the honourable member for Gellibrand (  Mr Willis)  has also suggested this. 
The commentators follow this line of argument. They state that although Australia has experienced a period of weak economic activity, labour productivity has increased. They seem to ignore that the gap between real wages and productivity can be closed either by reducing real wages or, in the absence of that, by induced productivity growth as a result of labour shedding, that is, replacing labour with capital. If the Opposition wants to close the overhang by further reductions in employment, that is, induced productivity growth, then it should continue to argue for full wage indexation. I prefer to argue on behalf of the unemployed by securing a better employment performance as a means of closing the gap- 
I suggest, therefore, that it would be preferable to reduce real wages rather than to keep them at their distorted level and to wait for induced productivity growth to close that gap. It is this latter method of reducing the gap- the low rather than high employment method- which has produced the labour productivity growth which is used as further justification for wage increases. I reject that approach and suggest that the Government continue its present responsible wages policy in the interests of those people who are presently unemployed. I reject the proposition that unemployment will be solved by anything other than proper demand, management policies. 
In answer to some of the comments made previously by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  I say that it is fallacious in my view to talk about job sharing schemes, early retirement schemes, shorter working weeks and to adopt a Luddite view towards technology as a means of increasing employment because this presupposes that there is a fixed amount of work to be done in any economy; that the relationship between scarcity of goods and total wants is, in aggregate, easily satisfied; and if anything happens to enable that work and those wants to be met by fewer people or to increase the labour force, then the result is inevitably more unemployment. The only way to reduce unemployment is to remove distortions in factor returns and to follow fiscal and monetary policies which will encourage job creation on a self-sustaining basis through an expanding private sector. 
I will give you an example a little bit later. At the moment the risk is very great that the progress towards this goal which has been substantial in the past three years may be totally lost if the next Budget is not a responsible one. In my view this Budget is the most important one for the present Government. It will determine the future of the economy and the future of the unemployed. Unless there is a very substantial reduction in the deficit for 1979-80, Australia will again go down the road of high inflation, high interest rates, high taxation, low levels of economic activity and higher unemployment. Given the commitments already entered into by this Government and their implications for increased expenditure and loss of revenue, as far as I can ascertain the Government has a very difficult task regarding the formulation of the next Budget. Its options are very limited but quite clearly there will have to be very substantial expenditure cuts. 
Public expenditure restraint to date has been exercised in an ad hoc way. It has not always been just or equitable and it has tended to be concentrated largely in capital works areas where the employment effects have been most damaging. I do not think it is possible to ignore the transfer areas of government expenditure any longer. I agree with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  when she says that there is a limit to what the economic resources of this country can provide. In two areas- health and welfare- the cost to this nation approaches $ 1 1 billion. In other words, about 85 per cent of all personal income tax collected in Australia is spent on health and welfare. If one adds the education bill and the defence bill to that tally one finds very little scope for budgetary flexibility in other areas. 
I was one of the members who did not support the concept of annual indexation of pensions. I still hold that view and will continue to hold that view. I call on the Government to restore six monthly indexation. But I do not see that as being necessarily in conflict with my belief that transfer payments should be subject to very close examination when expenditure cuts are being considered. I have always held the view that such cuts should be just and equitable and should not apply to those who are in real need of assistance. On the contrary, I suggest that it is precisely because so many benefits are paid universally, irrespective of need, that expenditure cuts to date have inevitably been unequally and inequitably imposed. 
Until such time as taxpayers funds are paid only to those in need it will not be possible to reduce substantially the tax burden in Australia. It will not be possible to initiate welfare initiatives such as family allowances to a satisfactory level and it will not be possible to index such benefits regularly in order to preserve the real value of those benefits. For that reason, even though pensions in Australia have risen by more than 37 per cent since this Government came to office and are now at their highest level ever in relation to average weekly earnings, any reduction in their real value will substantially disadvantage those pensioners who rely totally on the pension for their income. This anomalous situation occurs when selectivity based on need is ignored as the basis of disbursing welfare funds. When payments are universally reduced or adversely amended in some other way, the burden will always fall unequally and unjustly. So we have a situation where I consider it quite necessary, if we are to preserve equity and indulge in responsible budgetary management at the same time, for welfare payment to be more closely associated with a needs basis than is presently the case. 
While advocating a tight but equitable aproach to budgetary matters, it is difficult to ignore one item in Appropriation Bill (No. 3). It is an item which inevitably, I suppose, has been the subject of some political debate both inside and outside this chamber. I refer to the appropriation of $ 10.2m for the purchase of two Boeing 707 aircraft for special transport purposes. It is difficult to make a judgment on this matter. As a private member I am not familiar with the security report which was an important element in the decision to purchase these aircraft. Also, unlike other honourable members in this Parliament, I believe that Prime Ministers should travel, and travel often, particularly when the international political environment is as fluid and uncertain as it is now. I also think that the Prime Minister should be given maximum security. 
It is my view that in normal economic times, on the information available to me, that such a purchase would be justified. I am not convinced, however, that at a time when austerity is being preached in budgetary matters, such a purchase is warranted. I cannot see the consistency in that action with the bringing forward of policies such as the annual indexation of pensions as a means of curtailing public expenditure. I raise that matter simply to stress that while expenditure reductions are necessary it is essential that they be carried out in a consistent and an equitable manner. 
It is my view that the Government should continue its present policy of fiscal restraint as mentioned by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  when introducing those two Appropriation Bills. The recent economic history of Australia supports that approach and so does every respectable body of national and international economic opinion. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  should be rejected out of hand. Paragraph (a) of the amendment condemns the Government's failure in the area of employment. I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that in one year, between 1 974 and 1 975, unemployment went up by 207 per cent. Between 1972 and December 1975 it rose by 140 per cent. These figures are the result of the policies which the Labor Party pursued in government. While this present Government has been in office unemployment has increased at a rate of approximately 1 1 per cent per annum. I also refer to a report put out by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume).  It shows that there are 152,700 more people at work in Australia now than was the case when the Labor Government lost office in 1975. 1 therefore reject that part of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
I refer also to the second point of his amendment which refers to inflation and interest rates. From an examination of consumer price index movements, March quarter on March quarter, we can see that between 1973 and 1975 the CPI rose from 5.7 per cent to a peak of 17.6 per cent. Under this Goverment those annual CPI increases, March quarter on March quarter, have been halved. The honourable member for Gellibrand, in his amendment, then referred to interest rates. Again, following the policies which the Labor Government pursued in 1972 to 1975 and policies which the Labor Opposition now say are still appropriate, interest rates went up by 64 per cent. They went up from 5.5 per centthese are the yields on 5-year non-rebatable bonds- to 9.03 per cent in 1975. That interest rate level has been held to the March quarter of this year. In those cases, therefore, I reject that part of the amendment. 
Paragraph (c) of the amendment refers to the Government's wages policy. I simply say that the points I mentioned during the body of my speech justifies the kind of wages policy that this Goverment has pursued. It has had the endorsement of the Reserve Bank of Australia, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the Bank for International Settlements. Also, the  President  of the Australian Council for Trade Unions has agreed that any submissions which are made by the trade union movement should now show some concern for those who are unemployed. 
Finally, in relation to paragraph (d) of the amendment, I mention that pensions have increased by approximately 37 per cent. I have already suggested that they are now at a record level in relation to average weekly earnings. I also point out that the Government's efforts to reduce the inflation rate and to expand national production are always in the best interests of the low income earners. Professor Henderson, in his report on the Commonwealth Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia, mentioned quite clearly that the pension groups, the low income disadvantaged groups on fixed incomes, were the ones who were the most disadvantaged by high inflation rates. So in all those areas referred to in the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand, the policies which are being pursued by this Goverment and which are opposed by the Opposition have produced far better results than the policies espoused by the Labor Opposition and pursued by it when in government. For those reasons I am very pleased to support the two Appropriation Bills now before the House, and I reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand. 
I want to pay a tribute tonight to the late  Sir David  Brand who died on 15 April 1979. This is the first opportunity I have had to do so since the recent recess. No member of this House has as yet given recognition to the contribution he made to this country. 
I know they have done it in the Senate. I think we should always do something like that in this House at the first available opportunity. 
I want to read into the record the contribution made by this man. The  Hon. Sir David  Brand was Western Australia's longest serving Premier. He retired from State Parliament in August 1975, having served as Premier for just under 12 years. He represented the State electorate of Greenough for some 30 years. He had a distinguished Parliamentary career, being elected to the State Parliament in 1945. He was Premier, Treasurer and Minister for Tourism from 1 959 to 1 97 1 and Leader of the Opposition from 1 957 to 1959 and from 1971 to 1972. He was first appointed to the Ministry as junior Minister for Housing, Local Government and Forests in 1949. From 1950 to 1953 he was Minister for Works and Water Supplies. 
I have known the members of the Brand family for a very long time and I regret very much that I was overseas at the time of his death and was unable to attend his funeral.  Sir David  Brand was a greatly admired man in my State. He was admired and respected by all who knew him, whether they shared his political ideals or not. As a Premier and politician he made a great contribution to Western Australia, and therefore to Australia.  His  period of office in government coincided with the great development decade in 
Western Australia's economic history. But even more important than his concrete achievements which are there for the record, he will be remembered as a natural political leader who acquired by his own example and standards the respect and affection of his colleagues. He did not have to command respect because of his position; he simply received it naturally because of the kind of person he was. He was a decent man, a man with whom everybody could identify and a person who lived by very high codes of personal integrity. 

 Sir David possessed personal qualities which are only too rare in political life today. He was a strong and determined leader. But, in my opinion, the reason he was unique in modern political times was that there was no difference between his personal codes of behaviour, his sincerity, warmth and humanity and the way he governed and lived as Premier of Western Australia. He lived as one person with one set of high ideals and standards. Because of this there was no falseness about the man, no compromising of his principles and no false charisma. He brought a certain rare quality to political life and no person could have done more to enhance the profession of politics than  Sir David  Brand. He brought to it his own superb, courageous and widely respected qualities. I think that by those who read the history books of Western Australia in years to come he will be remembered as a great Premier. By those who knew him personally he will be remembered as a good, decent Australian who did so much by his own personal example to gain widespread respect for those traditional personal values which so often seem to be under challenge today. The death of  Sir David  Brand marks the end of a unique contribution to the political, social and economic development of my State. All Western Australians will look back with gratitude and in admiration of the contribution he made and the kind of person he was. On this occasion I extend my sincerest sympathy to his widow and to his family. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the draft resolution of the present assembly of the World Health Organisation in Geneva which proposes to suspend Israel from the World Health Organisation and terminate the services to Israel from that Organisation. Can the Minister inform the House who sponsored this resolution? Why was the resolution proposed? When will it be voted on? Can he assure the House that the Australian Government, through its delegation in Geneva, will oppose this resolution? 
-I support these Supply Bills. I wish to speak on an item which constitutes a growing commitment on our public resources, that is, the refugee problem. It is a subject of great national and international importance but it is one which is very seldom debated in this House. I support totally the refugee policy of the Government and believe that the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has handled this sensitive issue in a proper, positive and compassionate manner. I regret very much that he has not enjoyed the support he should expect from some State Ministers, State members of Parliament, members of this Parliament, many responsible community organisations and many members of the public. 
Much of the criticism has been ill-informed. It has ignored Australia's international obligations and has played on many deep-seated fears and prejudices within the body of public opinion. In Western Australia, for example, a Minister has publicly stated that the Government had lost all control over the refugee situation. This kind of comment of course is more particularly directed at the 'boat people'. This kind of comment certainly is counter-productive to the good intentions of the Government and it totally ignores the true perspective of the problem. It is estimated that, since the end of the Vietnam war, some 600,000 refugees, mainly of Chinese descent, have fled to neighbouring South East Asian countries. It is very difficult to estimate the figure, but somewhere between 100,000 and 250,000 refugees have perished while seeking refuge. As at May 1979, Australia had accepted a total of 20,000 refugees out of this 600,000. On a per capita basis that is an admirable record for Australia, but as part of the total problem it is not, and should not be seen as, an excessive acceptance of someone else's responsibility. Of that total intake, only just over 2,000 are boat people. Despite the publicity given to the boat people arriving this year, their total number amounts to no more than one week's intake of refugees through normal channels as part of the Government's official refugee program. To say that the situation is out of hand is, therefore, quite irresponsible. 
I hope that the Government will continue its present policy which is based on the orderly movement of refugees through established camps under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The policy, and I support it, is to provide for a controlled intake of 10,500 refugees per annum up to the end of 1979-80, by which time some 32,000 refugees will have been accepted. This intake represents better than one refugee for every 800 people in our population. It is the equivalent of only one month's outflow of refugees from Vietnam, and I think the public of Australia should view the problem in that perspective. I can appreciate the concern expressed by many migrants who see the refugee intake as being in direct competition with their own efforts through the proper channels to bring members of their families from overseas to live in Australia. To them I say simply that the refugee program is quite separate and distinct from the family reunion migration program and is a response to an international problem. It is a response we should make, not only because we have committed ourselves to certain official international obligations but also because the very nature of this horrendous situation demands a spontaneous and humanitarian response. 
The Minister has made it quite clear that there should be no suggestion that more refugees means fewer official immigrants. In fact, the Government has broadened its family reunion categories since the refugee problem became obvious. I appreciate that the whole refugee question is a very sensitive one. I agree also that there is a limit to our capacity to absorb people from overseas. But at present we have a responsibly managed and balanced intake which admits families for reunion with persons already in Australia, refugees, and persons whose skills can make a positive contribution to the economic development of this country. However, I submit that the limit to our capacity has not been reached, and until it is reached it is absolutely essential for public attitudes to be responsible and supportive of the Government in its efforts, in conjunction with other nations, to provide an internationally acceptable solution to this international problem. 
I say that for a number of reasons. Firstly, quite apart from the compelling humanitarian problems, Australia is one of 77 countries which have become parties to an international convention on the status of refugees and has therefore taken on certain obligations to assist refugees. We have long been a refuge for displaced persons. For example, in 1938 Australia agreed to accept refugees from Europe, and 7,500 refugees from Germany and Austria arrived in Australia in the 12 months to the middle of 1939. From 1939 to 1978 Australia accepted 325,000 refugees, including substantial numbers of Poles, Yugoslavs, Hungarians, citizens of the Baltic States, and people from many other corners of the world. We all know of the very worthwhile contribution these people have made to Australia's post-war economic and social development. What I am saying is that the refugee problem is not a new one. We have had it for a long while. We must also realise that we are not confronted with an ad hoc isolated short-term problem. In my opinion, we are dealing with a force of history. After all, the refugee problem is not confined to Indo-China. It is a global problem requiring a global response, and in the last 12 months or so Australia has accepted refugees from some 60 countries. There are about 12 million refugees in the world today- nearly equal to the Australian population- the great bulk of whom are seeking refuge from totalitarian regimes which ostensibly have sought to liberate their citizens. That gives some idea of the magnitude of the problem. 
The second point I make is that the present Indo-Chinese problem, which is of great concern to Australia, is getting worse and not better. At the end of April 1979 the number of refugees in transit camps was approaching 300,000. At the end of last year the number was some 200,000. That sort of increase is expected to continue at a quite alarming rate. My third point is that these refugees are located in transit camps in countries with a very limited absorptive capacity which can offer them only a precarious existence, and I should like to quote some very recent figures to illustrate that point. In Thailand there are 160,000 refugees, including some 14,000 Laotians, 15,000 Kampucheans and 5,000 Vietnamese. These are all refugees who have crossed borders, and so island transit camps are not going to relieve the situation in Thailand, which is the major country of first refuge. The figure of 160,000 does not include the tens of thousands of Kampucheans who have crossed into Thailand in the last few days before the thrust of Vietnamese soldiers. There are also 65,000 refugees in Malaysia and 25,000 in Hong Kong. Indonesia has approximately 15,000 refugees, and in recent months the rate of increase there has been quite alarming. There are 4,000 refugees in the Philippines, and smaller numbers located elsewhere. 
These countries, and they are the major countries of first refuge, are all characterised by low per capita incomes, over-population, a lack of space, and a relative scarcity of natural resources. They will therefore look, in my opinion quite reasonably, to Australia and other Western nations which do not have such constraints to accept their obligations to assist in the resettlement of these people. Even if the outflow were to cease immediately, and there is no sign that that will be the case, we know that it would still take another two years to resettle the refugees already in camps in this area of the world, assuming that existing promises of resettlement were repeated. We know that the outflow is not stopping, and we can expect that the rate of exodus from Vietnam and other Indo-Chinese countries will expand more rapidly in the future, on present indications. 
The fourth point I make is that the Vietnamese Government continues to encourage the exodus. The assurances given this month by Hanoi that it was concerned to lessen the difficulties caused for other countries in the region in my opinion should be viewed with scepticism. I am advised that new evidence obtained over the past week indicates that bribery and corruption still exist in Vietnam. Money is still changing hands, with officials encouraging and organising the departure of large numbers of refugees. 1 would therefore be very wary of accepting grand statements of intent from Hanoi. The fifth comment I make is that conditions in Vietnam and other IndoChinese countries continue to be so appalling since the so-called liberation that many of its citizens are prepare to risk their lives in leaving the country. I hope that we will not, for the purposes of international diplomacy, seek to understate the conditions in these countries, thereby making it more difficult for the public to accept the bona fides of the refugees. I for one certainly will not be constrained from speaking out against the regime in Vietnam. 
Overwhelmingly, the oppressive policies of the current governments in Indo-China are given as the main reason for escape. Most refugees have suffered discrimination or persecution. The ethnic Chinese continue to be persecuted, and that trend has increased since the Chinese invasion of Vietnam earlier this year. The confiscation of private property since March 1978 is also a contributing factor, and at least three million South Vietnamese are reported to have been dispossessed of their property and their means of livelihood over this period. The compulsory reeducation and relocation in the new economic zones of large sections of the population is having devastating effects. The mortality rates in these areas are quite horrific. Hundreds of thousands of citizens are reported to be in prisons and concentration camps. It is interesting to note that ethnic Vietnamese now form a significant part of the exodus, by comparison with ethnic Chinese, as they realise that the intent of the regime in Vietnam is not one of massive benevolence. There is plenty of evidence to suggest that the people of these countries are facing starvation. I think it is an indictment of conditions in Vietnam that some boat people who have been placed in gaol in Darwin because there is some doubt about their refugee status have written to friends in Vietnam telling them how much better conditions are in Australia. Obviously our gaols offer a far better environment than that available in Vietnamese society. Perhaps that is also a reflection on our gaols. 
The sixth point I would like to make is that the development of callous public attitudes to the refugee problem may well cause governments to adopt callous official attitudes to the refugees which, in the long term, will have a negative influence on efforts to seek an international solution to the problem. Recent events in Malaysia and Vietnam itself indicate that several boatloads of refugees have been allowed to perish as a result of official action or deliberate inaction. I can also refer, of course, to the well-known activities of the Thai pirates who have been devastating the seas of this region over the past year. Although no accurate details are available, it is estimated that as many as 50 per cent of those refugees seeking to leave Vietnam have perished while escaping. Estimates range from 100,000 to 250,000 men, women and children dying while seeking refuge. This mass genocide continues to take place and yet the peoples of many receiving countries continue to advocate that their, countries turn their backs on them and make them the responsibility of some unnamed nation. Hundreds of thousands of people- including women and children- are dying and drowning at sea. Yet many would have us adopt policies which would amount to these people being treated as no better than expendable livestock. 
Those who have advised me that we should mine the coastline of Western Australia, tow the boats out to sea- these are suggestions that are made- and adopt other such draconian measures might as well advise me to line these people up against the wall and shoot them because that is what it amounts to. These attitudes do not assist the government in its attempt to resolve the refugee problem at an international level. Indeed, it could be positively harmful to the delicate state of our relationships with countries of the region. Unless we show a positive and tolerant attitude to the major problems of this area, we may well find that in the not too distant future, when pressures of population on resources become intolerable in South East Asia, that our right to exist in peace and prosperity will be seriously challenged. 
We must therefore continue to meet our international obligations and, at the same time, continue to seek solutions at an international level by supporting, for example, the concept of an island processing centre provided by Indonesia and administered by the UNHCR; by placing pressure on the source countries of Indo-China to have a more compassionate and understanding approach to this problem and, hopefully, to remove the causes of this mass exodus; and finally, by persuading other governments to make greater efforts in offering refuge and resettlement to refugees. 
As I said earlier, this is a global problem requiring a global response. In the democratic world this will require more tolerant attitudes than are presently obvious. At the present time the burden is being shared by too few countries. The United States, which has already taken 200,000 Indo-Chinese refugees, will be taking another 7,000 per month at least until the end of 1980. France is taking 15,000 per annum. Australia will continue to take 10,500 per annum until the middle of next year. We may well have to continue our obligations beyond that time frame and with larger numbers. But other nations should be doing more. New Zealand is taking only 900 refugees per annum. In my view we must continue to press the major countries of Western Europe, South America and Japan to accept an obligation to meet this problem in a more constructive way than is presently the case. I would also hope that this Parliament could adopt a bipartisan attitude to the problem. In my view the Opposition needs a more responsible refugee policy. It is not sufficient to argue that conditional economic aid to Vietnam is the only way to stem the refugee tide. The current repression in Vietnam, which is causing so many people to leave, is based on political, ideological and racial grounds. It is not primarily a function of the national economy. 
I would like you to try to support the policy we have undertaken. In addition, one should ask why so many State and Federal Labor members of Parliament are so quiet on this issue. After all, it was the Labor Government in 1973 which ratified the 1967 protocol relating to the status of refugees. This gave official status to its humanitarian obligations to refugees. Yet many honourable members opposite are not prepared to stand up and responsibly support the Government's policy on refugees. Where are those people in Australia and in overseas countries, such as the Scandinavian countries who exerted such pressures to bring the Vietnam War to an end in order that reunification would liberate and improve the conditions of the Vietnamese. These people are strangely quiet when it comes to supporting a policy which promises to give refuge to the many hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese who they had said would benefit from the cessation of hostilities but who now risk their lives to escape from the place. In my view, if old political divisions remain and continue to dominate public attitudes on this question, it will not only cause further hardship and death to thousands of refugees, but also it will certainly seriously undermine our strategic position in a corner of the world which is of great significance to the future of Australia. - I support these Supply Bills and I reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  I support these Bills in the knowledge that our financial commitment in this refugee area may well have to expand substantially in the immediate future to meet what looks like becoming one of the most serious human problems of this century. 
I support the Income Tax (Rates and Assessment) Amendment Bill which arises from the statement made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Thursday. In my opinion the most important sentence in that statement was this one:   the deficit in prospect on the basis of existing policy was in the order of $4,600m. 
In a purely economic sense that prospect, in my opinion, constitutes a very real threat to the future of the Australian economy which requires very urgent and substantial action by the Government. It is that situation that has led the Government to the position where certain taxation decisions had to be made. I have stated time and time again in this place that we no longer live in an age when expanded Budget deficits lead automatically to expanded levels of economic activity and employment. On previous occasions, I have given my views as to why that traditional relationship no longer exists. I will not reiterate them. 
-Suffice it to say that ever expanding Budget deficits now have the reverse effect: They lead to reduced levels of output and employment. Recent economic history shows this quite clearly. The reasons for this are obvious from the way in which they affect monetary policy, wages policy, the balance of payments, community and business expectations and so forth. What is also important, from a monetary policy viewpoint, is not simply the fact that the Government was staring a $4,600m deficit in the face, but of almost equal significance is the fact that this deficit would have been one more large deficit coming on top of a whole series of substantial deficits in recent years. The implications of this situation for monetary policy are serious because not only is it again necessary to sell a large volume of government securities to finance a now large deficit, but also it is necessary for existing holdings of government paper to be maintained if the money supply is to be kept in check. This can only exert further upward pressure on interest rates and further weaken employment opportunities for the unemployed. 
The Treasurer mentioned in his statement that the Government's long term program of restraint has meant that the size of the deficit as a proportion of gross domestic product has been reduced from 5 per cent in 1975-76 to about 3.5 per cent in the current year. What is equally important to realise- this was not mentioned in the Treasurer's statement- is that the deficit in prospect of over $4.5 billion involves a domestic deficit of nearly $3.5 billion. That amounts to about 8 per cent of the money supply. That figure was not quoted in the Treasurer's speech. Such a situation quite obviously threatens to create excess liquidity and higher interest rates. Recent economic history shows quite obviously that excessively high monetary growth rates cause inflation rates to rise even at low levels of economic activity. The adverse effect on interest rates is obvious, as is the effect of a leakage of such liquidity overseas and the inflationary effect of that through downward exchange rate adjustments. 

 Mr Van Lennep, the Secretary General of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, when referring to countries with rather vulnerable balance of payment positions, stated: 
If any one of these countries took action to bolster demand by itself, its current deficit would increase and downward pressure on its exchange rate could worsen the inflationary situation and undermine confidence. These countries cannot therefore ease up on their restrictive policies unless they have a reasonable assurance that others will be doing the same. 
In response to the earlier interjection by my colleague the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  when he mentioned that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  did not really understand the causal relationships between Budget deficits and the domestic and external economies, I think it is interesting to note the comment made last year by Professor Corden when he replied to the policy of the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. He said: 'A mighty Keynesian expansion'- in other words, a large deficit- 'as represented by the Institute's policy would lead to a mighty devaluation'. Of course, that comment leads to all sorts of other implications both at the domestic level as well as in relation to the external account. 
Even the sale of securities is hardly able to solve the problem of ever-expanding deficits, firstly, because of the securities stock problem which arises over time and causes Budget inflexibility through expanding debt servicing commitments and because of the strain this places on monetary policy in view of the liquid nature of these holdings. The effect on wages policy of a large deficit is not quite as direct. But I would agree with those who suggest that any loosening of fiscal and monetary policy could hardly serve to influence the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in the direction of real wage restraint. The implications of that for employment are quite obvious. 
Recent economic history also shows us the way in which a move towards large deficits adversely affects business confidence and expectations. In the early 1970s when the then Labor Government first commenced its so-called expansionary deficits, all we saw was massive contraction of the private sector with sharp reductions in output and employment as it became obvious that the financing of its public programs through higher tax, higher interest rates and higher inflation had very serious effects on business confidence. The ones who suffered most from this so-called benevolence were those who are now unemployed and those on low incomes whom Professor Henderson clearly saw as being the major victims of rampant inflation. 
In more recent times, when restraint became the order of the day under the present Government, there has been a recovery in national production and, to a lesser extent, a recovery in employment. The fact remains that, with the policy of restraint exercised by this Government, there have emerged the first signs of economic recovery. Even the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  has publicly acknowledged this, as did the honourable member for Berowra in his earlier contribution to this debate. It is therefore absolutely essential for the Government to prevent a future deficit blowout of the magnitude referred to by the Treasurer in his statement of last Thursday night, because this would clearly lead to the perceptions of big government which caused so much of the trouble in the early 1 970s. 
Quite apart from the contractionary effects of financing the deficit, this country has already observed the phenomenon of higher savings ratios as increased inflationary expectations are coupled with expectations of employment and security. The effect on private investment planning is obvious, both for domestic production and for export and import competing industries. In other words, the deficit, particularly when it is in the order of $4,600m, can bankrupt this country. It can prevent the removal of those fundamental distortions such as excessive inflation, imbalances between prices and incomes, poor international competitiveness and private sector uncertainty, which together prevent a return to self-sustaining economic growth, rising living standards, and better employment opportunities. Given this situation, the Government clearly had a responsibility to do what was in the best long term interests of the economy of this country. I venture to say that we are, at the moment, at a critical point in our economic history. A failure to act now against the impending deficit of $4.5 billion would be the death blow to this economy. 
I therefore welcome the measures taken to reduce the size of this deficit. It is completely in line with the strategy followed by this Government since it took office. In real terms, the deficit has been contained and substantially reduced from the 1975-76 level, in real terms. The growth in expenditure this year will be approximately 8.5 per cent. That is the lowest rate of increase in a decade. This compares with the growth in Commonwealth spending of 1 15 per cent in the three years of the previous Government. Quite obviously, confronted with a deficit of $4.5 billion, the Government had to take further steps. No government likes doing unpopular things. But all governments are charged with the responsibility of doing what is in the best interests of the country over a longer time frame. 
-That is quite correct. Doing what is right and what is necessary. Given these difficult decisions, the Government, in both raising revenue and expenditure restraint, has acted responsibly. The burden has been shared between the household and the corporate sector, between the rural sacred cow and the non-farm sector and between the disadvantaged and relatively well-off individuals. In the health field, for example, the Treasurer has made it quite clear that the pensioners and the socially disadvantaged continue to be fully protected, while the general population remains protected against large outlays on medical services. 
On the revenue side, commitments to tax reductions have not been met; and I view that with regret, as does the Government. The Treasurer was quite forthright about that in his statement. The present rate of tax is to be maintained; and, given the budgetary situation, I accept that. Although I am unhappy about the maintenance of these tax rates, I must say that the hypocrisy of the Opposition on these matters amazes me. After all, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stated on 28 May, under our reforms a marginal rate of over 10c in the dollar less than the rate under Labor applies to incomes of $ 10,000 a year and a marginal rate of over 20c in the dollar less than the rate under Labor applies to incomes of $16,000 a year. Members of the Opposition criticise the Government for maintaining existing tax rates; yet in office the Labor Party expanded the deficit fivefold. It increased expenditure by 1 1 5 per cent in three years and it increased revenue by 93 per cent.  (Quorum formed).  I am not quite sure why that quorum was called. I do not know whether it was called because the members of the Labor Party do not like their tax record being thrown back at them. 
The Labor Government increased income tax revenue by 125 per cent; but the present Government has ensured, through tax indexation and reform of the tax rate scales, that taxpayers are collectively paying $3,000m less personal tax than they would have paid under the tax scales in the last Labor Budget. A worker on average weekly earnings, even with the November 1978 increase, is over $9 a week better off than he would have been without these reforms. I also point out that, under the tax reforms of this Government, up to 500,000 individuals on lower incomes no longer have to pay personal income tax - 
Because the Government increased the minimum threshold limit; that is the reason. These reforms and corporate sector tax reforms have done much to restore confidence in the private sector. But in some areas of tax reform perhaps we as a Government did too much too soon, and this has led to the present situation. Perhaps this Government overreacted to the high tax days of the previous Administration. I must say to certain honourable members opposite who have sought to put a label on me in recent weeks that I do not happen to be a supporter pf high tax levels. In fact, I am a proponent of lower Budget deficits and as a first preference in closing the gap I would advocate reducing expenditure further, rather than increasing taxation. Unlike the honourable member for Fremantle, I happen to believe very strongly in the private enterprise economy because it is the most productive economic system yet devised and it is the system that has given this country, over its short history, one of the highest living standards in the world. Achieving these standards has also led to Australia's having a lower incidence of poverty than almost any other country. 
As a supporter of this kind of economic system, I must say that it is essential to aim for maximising incentives by minimising the incidence of taxation. That would be my priority because any private enterprise government should seek to resolve budgetary problems by first reducing public expenditure rather than by increasing private taxes. Otherwise, there is a danger of killing the goose that lays the golden egg and the people who would ultimately suffer would be the poorer sections of the community. But, given the dimensions of the deficit in prospect, some restraint on both sides of the ledger was necessary, and I accept that. 
In my view, more could have been done on the expenditure side. The Treasurer stated that the health measures being adopted 'are in keeping with our general philosophy of concentrating 
Government assistance on the needy'. The decision to introduce a limit on the value of homes which can qualify people for a homes savings grant seemed to apply the same principle. In my view, this philosophy could and should be extended to the welfare area. Until this is done, taxes in Australia will remain at unacceptably high levels, which militates against the unemployed and against the prospect of generating the kind of wealth which this country can produce and which would be of benefit to all groups in society. 
Unlike the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  whose recent criticism of me seems to indicate that he favours more income support for the wealthy, I regard the needs approach to welfare as being equitable and compassionate, for three main reasons: Firstly, it permits greater budgetary flexibility, thereby enabling governments to respond more quickly and more generously to newly emerging areas of poverty. Secondly, it permits a greater concentration of welfare resources on the needy and may allow those resources or benefits to be paid at a higher level and also to be protected from inflation, which often cannot be done with universally paid benefits because it is too costly. Thirdly, it would certainly mean that society could be committed to lower taxation levels, thereby helping to create employment and further increase overall living standards. In that context one could almost say that a rich person's benefit is another person's job. I think this whole issue should be closely examined by the Government. But this is not a simple, straightforward call for expenditure reductions. It involves both the income support system and the taxation system. 
When I refer to the need for having another look at our method of welfare resource distribution, I acknowledge that we are looking at a complex problem with no straightforward solution. We should look to a solution which is an internally consistent package. I think we should accept that our taxation and income support systems are two sides of the same coin- one adding to income and the other withdrawing income. In my opinion, the present system of taxation and income support is anomalous and fails to meet its objectives of equitable resource distribution, and this whole issue requires the attention of the Government. 
I support wholeheartedly the efforts of the Government to continue fiscal restraint, to hold down the deficit, which this Bill helps to ensure. 
Notwithstanding the short term political difficulties, this will contribute in the long run to the viability and strength of the Australian economy, which is in the best interests of all Australians. I am very pleased to have the opportunity of supporting this Bill. 
-There has recently been both parliamentary and public comment on the principles of welfare disbursement. I want to put my views on this matter. I believe that it is possible to urge a needs approach to welfare, both in the interests of the needy and in the interests, of responsible budgetary management. It is my view that if the ability to pay is the criterion for raising income taxes, the criterion of need should be the principle used in disbursing those funds. This view basically acknowledges the fact that both the taxation and income support systems are two sides of the same coin, with taxation withdrawing income and income support programs naturally adding to it. Both sides of the coin may well be involved in any equitable change to existing programs. This kind of emphasis helps governments to alleviate the incidence and improve the equity of the tax system, while at the same time improving the possibility of directing more adequate assistance to those in need. 
Since I have been in this Parliament I have been, and will continue to be, a strong advocate for the disadvantaged in our society. From the time I made my maiden speech in this place 1 have constantly said that we go about this objective in the wrong way- in a way which is against the best interests of the disadvantaged- by moving increasingly towards universal welfare. In my view this is not a radical approach. After all, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  have advocated this in their rhetoric. 
The Opposition has moved towards this position by removing from its policy the promise to abolish the means test on age pensions. The Opposition should not claim that this has merely given way to proposals for a national superannuation scheme. After all, needs based income maintenance benefits are also used in a number of countries where it has been found that the benefits provided under either universal or contributory schemes are often insufficient for those who rely totally on such schemes for their income support. This tendency towards universal welfare is rather new. In referring to this problem, 

 Mr T. H. Kewley, the then senior lecturer in government at the University of Sydney said in the  Australian Quarterly  of 1972: 
Countries that earlier chose to follow the approach of Bismarck in Germany are in the process of having second thoughts about the wisdom of that decision, especially where their schemes have become practically universal in coverage, and are looking with some envy at the selective approach followed in Australia. 
At this time both England and Canada were also stressing greater emphasis on anti-poverty measures. The only point I want to make is that the existence of universal income support programs inevitably means that those in greatest need do not receive the level of assistance that could otherwise be given to them. 
I say that for a number of reasons. Firstly, the universal method of disbursing welfare funds leads to Budget inflexibility. Where several departments dominate the outlays side of the Budget I think it is reasonable to assume that those departments are restricted from entering into new programs to meet newly emerging areas of need. Secondly, selectivity permits a greater concentration of welfare resources on the needy and may allow those resources to be paid at a higher level and also to be protected from inflation, neither of which can be achieved with universally paid benefits because it is too costly. In other words, the application of universal benefits generally means bleeding the poor to pay the rich. 
Thirdly, needs based welfare would certainly mean that society could be permitted to lower taxation levels, thereby helping to create employment and further increase overall living standards. As I said last week in this place, in this context one could almost say that a rich person's benefit is another person's job. I want to emphasise that we do not require a simple adjustment to welfare principles. We need to acknowledge that at the present time both our systems of taxation and income support are anomalous and fail to meet the objectives of equitable and just resource distribution. The Government should seek internally consistent packages whenever amendments to either system are contemplated, in order to provide greater justice, both for those who receive assistance and for those who currently provide it. 

 Mr Kewley mentioned in the  Australian Quarterly  that in his opinion the adoption of a selective approach in Australia was the reason that Professor Henderson was able to claim in 1971 that the incidence of poverty in Australia is lower than in any country in the world with the possible exception of New Zealand and the Scandinavian countries. I also think it is quite interesting to note that those who speak out strongly against handouts, high government expenditure and high taxes are so often the same people who receive welfare assistance from the Government without being in the kinds of circumstances which make such assistance imperative. 
-I want briefly to support the remarks of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  I also am concerned at the way in which the findings of the Expenditure Committee regarding the Northern Territory forestry program have been handled. As has been said, our report was brought down in May last year, over 12 months ago, and we have not had a response until now. 1 do not want to blame the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott).  I am sure that he has many more urgent and important matters on his plate than this program, and he has had to await the result of other inquiries. But I do think that a serious precedent was set, in relation to the handling of our report, by a subsequent report being commissioned. If adverse findings of Federal parliamentary committees lead to the establishment of further inquiries by State or territorial officers, at the instigation of the Federal Government, then the integrity of our committees is being questioned with the obvious intention of justifying existing expenditure programs. 
I think it should be said that our Committee had a detailed look at this program. We had expert advice available to us and we took a great deal of evidence. We inspected the program at first hand and brought in a very carefully considered report. It was not done off the top of our heads. It would appear, however, that the attempt to justify the expenditure of more than $30m over the past 20 years has failed. We know that the Northern Territory Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  instructed two officers of his Department to examine the operations of the Northern Territory Forestry Service following the publication of our Committee's findings. Their conclusions, particularly as they related to the report of the Queensland foresters, were very interesting. They stated quite clearly: 
After 20 years in the forestry business we do not have much to show, e.g.- 
No commercial forests. 
No approved species on areas of development. 
A large amount of research still required. 
Most important of all, they said: 
A report from Queensland does not necessarily justify what has or is being done nor does it rescind the House of Representatives report on the economies of the venture. 
It appears to me that efforts to question our original report have failed and that the Chief Minister,  Mr Everingham,  has been misinterpreting and drawing wrong conclusions even from the report of the Queensland foresters, which was commissioned presumably to form a second and opposing opinion regarding our report. In answer to a question in the Northern Territory Assembly only a matter of days ago,  Mr Everingham  made a number of quite incorrect comments regarding the nature of our inquiry, the extent of natural resources in the Northern Territory, the viability of plantation growth rates, and the export potential of seedlings of pinus caribaea 
In my view, the findings of the Standing Committee on Expenditure remain valid. The conclusions from the Queensland foresters are very optimistic. In my view, if the grant to the Northern Territory is to continue on the basis of their recommendation to continue with further plantings on Melville Island, then I would suggest that this would be throwing good money after bad, even on the basis of a purely technical evaluation. It would certainly not be justified under any economic test. Page 6 of their report supports this planting recommendation, stating that such plantations would be capable of sustaining a mean annual increment of at least 10 cubic metres per hectare. Our advice is that this is just not an acceptable level of productivity. It is not commercially viable. The report of the Queensland foresters begins by admitting that it has not been possible to carry out an economic evaluation of the softwood planting programs. With regard to the Melville Island plantings, they also state that a detailed benefit cost analysis be carried out to determine the longer term future of this plantation project. I would have thought that the plantation business by its very nature was a long term project and should, therefore, not proceed until such an analysis was undertaken. The report of the Queensland foresters seriously understates the natural hazards of forestry in the Northern Territory. It ignores the fact that although these hazards may be separately and effectively countered elsewhere in the world, in the Northern Territory they occur together and with great intensity. We were told quite clearly that even billiard balls were not safe in the Northern Territory. 
The report concludes by simply stating that in the aggregate all these risks may involve some additional costs and it does not state their magnitude. In my view their disregard for commercial viability is serious and should not be discounted by referring to the social gains of the program. Our evidence clearly showed that this activity had not been a successful long term employer of Aboriginals, quite apart from the question whether it is wise to train people for noneconomically viable enterprises. In summary, I can see nothing in the Queensland Foresters report which changes any of the recommendations of the initial report by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. There are differences between the recommendations of the Queensland report and the report of the officers of the Chief Minister. There are differences in the conclusions of the Queensland report and the statement of the Chief Minister in the Northern Territory Assembly. These inconsistencies only reinforced my confidence in our initial report. 
I am particularly concerned with the statement by the Minister that, in the 1978-79 Budget, the Northern Territory Government diverted a significant proportion of the operational expenditure of the former forestry branch to parks and gardens operations in Darwin, Alice Springs and other locations. I would like some additional information in this regard. I am concerned at the diversion of these funds. It seems to imply acceptance of our Committee's findings, but no reduction is made in the level of funding. I am not opposed to money being spent on parks or gardens. Street gardens have some value which is more than can be said of the forestry program. 
The point which I make is that if the Northern Territory wants to have a parks and gardens program it should certainly have one but this should be within its own assessment of priorities and from its own resources. It should not be funded simply because previous levels of funding were over generous in supporting a poorly conceived and administered forestry program. I therefore hope that the Minister, in acknowledging as he did that the Northern Territory expenditure priorities are now determined by the Northern Territory Executive within the limit of available funds- including the grant from the Commonwealth- will recognise that to some extent this limit has a false base and that no new evidence has come to light which disputes this fact. I think this whole question raises very serious issues about the principles of Federal funding and I hope that the Minister will have a very close look at the Government's funding response to this program and to our Committee's recommendations 
I support the Budget in both its detail and the strategy it endorses. In particular, I welcome the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  that the Government will maintain its attack on inflation, which in the Treasurer's words 'is the fundamental and most enduring cause of the economic difficulties of the 1970s'. The Reserve Bank of Australia in its recently released report said: 
The Bank sees the requirements for further improvement in domestic economic conditions and the maintenance of a stronger balance of payments as closely related. Both would benefit from smaller budget deficits. 
That is not the comment of just any trading bank in Australia. It is a solid endorsement of the Government's economic strategy by the central bank of Australia, which is responsible for the administration of monetary policy in this country. It is certainly a rejection of the policy announced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  who when replying to the Budget and announcing some of his expenditure plans to expand the domestic deficit in this country, said: 
I make no apology for the fact that in committing ourselves to such a program, we would support a larger domestic deficit to help fund it. 
The Reserve Bank, which endorsed the Government's economic strategy, has the following responsibility under the Reserve Bank Act 1 959: 
It is the duty of the Board, within the limits of its powers, to ensure that the monetary and banking policy of the Bank is directed to the greatest advantage of the people of Australia and that the powers of the Bank under this Act, the Banking Act 1 959 and the regulations under that Act are exercised in such a manner as, in the opinion of the Board, will best contribute to- 
) the stability of the currency of Australia; 
b ) the maintenance of full employment in Australia and; 
the economic prosperity and welfare of the people of Australia. 
If that is not a good enough source of advice, we could turn to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which undertook its annual review of the Australian economy in 
May of this year. Its review committee posed the question as to whether or not official policy should be relaxed in order to improve the employment situation. In its 1979 survey it came up with the same conclusion as it did in 1978. It said: 
The factors arguing against faster public sector expansion still seem to keep the balance in favour of maintaining the steady stabilisation policy approach aimed at combating inflation. 
It is quite clear that any substantial increase in public expenditure would reduce the basis for sustainable recovery of the economy. Higher expenditure will be financed by either higher taxes, which in turn have a dampening effect on employment, or a growth in the Budget deficit, which in turn will lead to higher interest rates, greater activity by the money printing presses or a combination of both. These also have adverse effects on the level of economic activity and the level of employment. Yet the Leader of the Opposition insists on higher public sector expenditure as a means of solving our economic problems. He seems to forget that during the term of the Labor Government the highest ever rates of increased government expenditure occurred at the same time as, and resulted in, record unemployment; but still he pursues the same policies. I think it is interesting to note in this context that both Japan and West Germany, which earlier in 1978-79 had announced the adoption of more expansionary budgetary policies, later resorted to higher interest rates to counter the increasing rise in domestic prices in those countries. The fact is that the policy options confronting governments are now very limited. The secretary of the Treasury, as reported in a recent  Bulletin  article on this very subject, said: 
As a consequence of the errors of past years- and I am not confining myself to the years 1973-75, although I would have to say that by comparison most of the earlier ones pale into insignificance- Australia has, at least for some years to come, run out of options. 
In other words, the present strategy, however unpalatable in the short term, is the only one which will serve the best long term economic interests of this country. There seems to have been an about-turn in the thinking of the Leader of the Opposition on economic policy matters. When he was Treasurer in 1 975 he said: 
We are no longer operating in that simple Keynesian world in which some reduction in unemployment could, apparently, always be purchased at the cost of some more inflation. 
Today, it is inflation itself which is the central policy problem. More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
In that context he also said: 
We expect that as the expansion of public sector activity is restrained, the opportunities for private sector expansion will improve, although full responses to greater room for growth may take time to develop. 
In other words, when in government, the now Leader of the Opposition accepted the realities of the economic problem facing the then Government, although the Budget outcome in 1 975 did not match his rhetoric. Now that he is in Opposition he paints an entirely different picture as to how he would confront what is basically the same problem. He now proposes massive increases in public expenditure. He rejects the concept of lower taxes and a growing private sector as being critical to economic growth and prosperity for all Australians, and particularly for the welfare recipients. In Perth earlier this year, when talking about lower taxes, he said: 
This sort of approach strikes directly at the conventional democratic socialist notion that equality and equity can only be assured by a stronger public sector. 
In other words, when in Opposition he is a true socialist, but when in government he knows that socialism is not a possibility for this country and he rejects the strategy implicit in it. In seeking to condemn the Budget of the Treasurer, the Leader of the Opposition failed to put an alternative Budget to this Parliament and to the people. He did not use any solid figures. He simply indulged in personal abuse and denigration. But he did endorse the economic strategy of the Whitlam years. He told us that we would basically be getting the same kind of economic policy as then- more government expenditure and larger deficits. He seems to ignore the fact that the present policies of the Government have met with slow but steady success. There is still a long way to go- we admit that- but I think we should look at some of the facts and give some credit where it is due. We can look firstly at the rate of inflation, which reached an annual rate approaching 17 per cent in 1974. This Government has reduced it to approximately 9 per cent at present. As a result of this, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade organisation recently said that Australia is the only country to succeed in achieving improvement in international competitive positions over the past few years. During the Labor Government's term of office the level of inflation in Australia rose to a maximum of five points above the average for countries within the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The present Government has succeeded in bringing the inflation rate down to more than three points below that average. The beneficial effects of this on our balance of payments, current account and on employment are obvious. For example, in the year to June 1979 exports by metal manufacturers increased by 3 1 per cent compared with an increase of just over one per cent in the previous year. The export of machinery and transport equipment in 1978-79 was up by 23 per cent. Exports overall increased by 20 per cent in the year to June 1979. 
Unemployment in Australia remains too high but at least some encouraging signs are beginning to emerge. Whereas the number of people in private employment fell by 155,000 under the Labor Government, in the 12 months to June 1979 it increased by more than 50,000. Total employment has risen by 64,000 over the same period. This steady increase month by month has meant that private employment has started to climb back to the level prevailing before the recession. The unemployment rate has fallen from 6.2 per cent to 5.8 per cent but still the unemployment position remains very serious. We are concerned about it. It is interesting to note the reversal in the unemployment trend when one considers that unemployment rose by 140 per cent between 1972 and 1975 under an entirely different approach to economic management. To indicate that employment can keep improving the Reserve Bank of Australia in its annual report clearly rejects the Opposition's proposals. It states: 
There must be doubts about the extent to which unemployment can be reduced simply by demand stimulus. As far as monetary, budgetary and external policies are concerned, their best contribution to reducing unemployment in the long run seems to be in fostering firm and stable conditions which will provide a basis for confident operations and for expansion in private industry. 
That is the strategy of this Government. It is a strategy which must be maintained. National production is another key indicator. Under present policies that also has risen. Real gross domestic product rose by 4.7 per cent in 1 978-79. Non-farm product grew by 2.8 per cent. This is a big improvement from the situation under the Labor Government. Private capital inflow in 1978-79 was $1,71 lm, almost five times higher than in the previous year. This reflects the confidence which overseas investors have in the future of this economy. It was the best result for seven years. In addition, in the June quarter alone, $ 1,400m of prospective new investment was approved by the Foreign Investment Review Board. During 1978-79 business fixed investment grew by 10 per cent after allowing for inflation. That also means more jobs in the future as the multiplier effects start to work. There are excellent prospects for the development of natural resources as has already been mentioned in this place. In coal alone there are announced projects worth $2 billion. In bauxite and aluminium there are announced programs of a further $2 billion. In mining and manufacturing investment, according to the Department of Industry and Commerce, there is a total of $12.5 billion of firmly committed projects or projects in the final feasibility stage. W. D. Scott and Co. has estimated that $30,000m worth of major investment is ready to go in the next five years. 
All these statistics mean improved employment prospects in the near and long term future. They mean jobs. This improvement has occurred because we want to encourage development by creating a climate for private investment and enterprise, both domestic and foreign. Yet the Opposition wants to keep our wealth in the ground. We had the spectacle yesterday of a senior Opposition member saying that basically he did not want any foreign investment in this country. I would like to know how he can reconcile that view with the quest for full employment. How will he explain that to the unemployed youth of this country? We can achieve our full potential as a nation only by encouraging the productive sector of the economy. All through this Budget debate the Opposition has criticised our incentives to the private sector, the sector which does the great majority of employing in this nation. We must continue to provide the necessary incentives for this by controlling public sector growth and adhering to our commitment to lower taxes, lower deficits and smaller government, thereby allowing room for the private enterprise sector to grow and create real jobs and real prosperity. 
To date we have had some success. The growth in Commonwealth spending of taxpayers' money has been reduced from an annual rate of increase of 10 per cent in real terms under Labor to a level of one per cent or less per annum under the present Government. The Budget deficit has also fallen from 5 per cent of the gross domestic product under Labor to 1.9 per cent in the coming financial year. That is the best result for six years. In the area of taxation much has been said disparagingly of the Government. I find it strange to hear Opposition members complain about higher taxation. Not only do they forget their own performance on tax matters but also they forget their own rhetoric and policies in this area. The Labor Party is the high tax party of this country. Taxes rose by 125 per cent in its three years of government. Income tax collections alone rose by 89 per cent during its first two years in office. Even after increasing taxes last year and for part of 1 979-80 the present Government's personal income tax collections have increased on average by only 3. 1 per cent per annum compared with 14.5 per cent per annum under the previous Administration. Last year under the present Government tax collections fell in real terms for the first time in 10 years. The Opposition seems to forget that with the removal of the tax surcharge the tax payable at 1979-80 composite rates will be less at all levels than the tax payable in 1978-79. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his speech last night said that someone on an income of $12,000 per annum would be paying 45c in the dollar under the Hayden taxation scales. He will now pay just over 33c in the dollar. The Opposition forgets that the average wage earner as a result of this Government's tax policies will receive about $ 16 a week more in his paypacket in December 1979 under the new tax scales than he would have received if the 1975 tax scales had still applied. The Opposition also forgets that our tax reforms have meant that some 500,000 people no longer have to pay any income tax. They are the lower income earners in this country. The Opposition seems to forget that tax exemptions apply to deaf and blind persons on the purchase of certain items of equipment. It forgets the wide range of tax concessions and incentives provided to industry in order to create an environment for real expansion and a growth in long term job opportunities. The Opposition criticised us for not introducing tax indexation this year but in government Labor refused to do so. As recently as 2 1 July this year the Leader of the Opposition suggested that it may be too costly for him to adopt tax indexation as a firm policy. The Opposition's commitment to higher taxes is clear. I do not think that Opposition members make any apology for it. The shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  revealed this quite clearly last year. He said: 
If Labor does not gain office next election then by 1983, when we could next hope to gain office, we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector- and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
The record of the Opposition on tax matters speaks for itself, as does its total economic strategy. The OECD, the International Monetary Fund, GATT and the Reserve Bank of Australia all agree with the economic management strategy of this Government which is endorsed again in this Budget. It is surprising that the Opposition seeks to cling to its economic strategy which is against the expressed economic opinions of responsible national and international economic bodies. It was discredited by the economic history of its term in government. 
This Government's policies of restraint have not meant that we have shown no regard for those welfare recipients in needy circumstances, although that seems to have come through in many speeches by members of the Opposition in this debate. Many of the contributions of members opposite have sought to drive a wedge between the assistance given by the Government to the productive sector of the economy and the assistance given to the needy. In my view, this grossly misrepresents the situation. We believe that we have to create wealth if we are to distribute it. I believe that a sound economy is essential for a sound welfare policy. I am yet to hear anyone argue that welfare recipients can benefit from a country which is confronted with massive economic difficulties. That opinion was endorsed also by Professor Henderson in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty in Australia. 
The welfare record of this Government has been sound during a very difficult time for economic management. We have introduced automatic indexation of pensions, which will again be applied six-monthly. The Government has extended the income limits for pensioner fringe benefits. We have extended eligibility for health benefit cards to supporting parent beneficiaries. Assistance to handicapped persons through various schemes has increased by 93 per cent under this Government. To preserve their real value, age pension rates, for single pensioners and married couples, have risen by almost 50 per cent under this Government. There have been other welfare initiatives of significance. The accommodation provided by the aged persons homes scheme has been increased. Some 15,000 beds have been provided. Grants to autumn centres throughout Australia have been increased and family services programs have been extended. 
The strategy of the Government is clearly aimed at economic responsibility. It is aimed at the unemployed. It is designed to show concern for their future prospects. At the same time, we are concerned with furthering the welfare of the needy in our society. I think it is a pity that the Opposition in its contribution to the Budget debate did not come forward with a wages policy- 1 think it is unfortunate that it did not come forward with a sound energy policy or a sound antiinflationary policy. This Government is committed to the present strategy which is endorsed in the Budget. 
In political terms, it is difficult to stick with a tight policy of restraint. No democratic government on the face of this earth has found a popular way in which to defeat inflation, to reduce the 
Budget deficit and to control government expenditure. As far as I am concerned, the record to date shows that very substantial progress has been made towards the economic recovery of this country. I believe that the long term future of this country, particularly in the area of national resources development and in the domestic manufacturing sector, will be improved very substantially by the policies of support for the private sector. That has been quite clearly shown by the strengthening that has taken place in all sectors of this economy. I support very strongly the strategy endorsed by the Government in this Budget. 
Is the Minister for Defence aware of recent reports which state that Australia's defence policies are not meeting the strategic demands of the north west region of Western Australia? Has the Minister examined these reports and will he inform the House as to their validity? 
-As the representative of the outback town of Perth I wish to respond to a couple of points that were made. I think the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  said that the operation of Estimates committees in the way which is proposed would mean, to use his own words, that the Parliament would not be seen to be functioning in a manner which attracts attention to its work. He put that in a way which suggested that there was great virtue in having the proceedings in the Parliament broadcast. I would have thought that the one thing that had come out of having the proceedings of this House broadcast to the Australian public is that they would all unanimously agree that this chamber was desperately in need of reform. I think they would want to see the Parliament become more than a mere talking shop, more than a place of eternal warfare; I think they would want to see the Parliament function in a more constructive manner. I think that all honourable members who serve on parliamentary committees, which admittedly are out of the glare of publicity, would agree that committees function in a much more rational and constructive way than does the Parliament. Committees move positively towards given ends. They operate in a bipartisan manner. I do not see great disadvantage arising from us operating elsewhere than in this chamber where the proceedings are broadcast. 
I was a little disappointed with the comments made by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  He seemed to suggest that we were shoving these committees down the throats of members of the Opposition. I would have thought that the legislation committees and the Estimates committees in fact worked to the benefit not just of the Parliament but basically of the Opposition, because they provide the Opposition with a vehicle- a vehicle which at present it does not have- by which to scrutinise the estimates of the Government departments. I do not really think it matters whether the initiative comes from this side of the House or from the other side of the House as long as it comes from private members of this Parliament who wish to see the Parliament operating in a more constructive manner and having slightly more power than it seems to have at the present time. 
If the Standing Orders Committee is to work better certainly some changes may need to be made to its personnel. I have not devoted my mind to that issue. All I can say is that the other committees of the Parliament which have been in existence for a very long time- I should perhaps exclude the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure which recently brought down a very significant report recommending reforms for this chamber- have never brought forward anything which has really been acted upon by this Parliament. Let us be grateful for the reforms that are being put forward and let us act on them. I do not see as being a big problem the fact that only two committees have been proposed. We have many members in this chamber. Because the personnel on those committees will be interchangeable, it will allow members with interests in particular departments to put their expertise to work. We have an advantage over the Senate in that regard; it has only half the number of members that we have. 
I think it is very important that we recognise that the major function of the House of Representatives is one of scrutiny of the activities of the Government. To date the estimates debate has achieved anything but an examination of the estimates of the various government departments. If we can move towards the situation where the estimates are analysed critically, that will be terrific. I think that we should give it a go. After all this is the chamber in which most of the Ministers sit. Therefore we can subject them to scrutiny, put them on their nettle, and ask them the questions which we want to put to them. I think it is sensible that this chamber rather than the other chamber has prime responsibility for considering the estimates of Government departments. 
I admit that there are many deficiencies, but in coming forward with these proposals we recognise that unless there is a spirit of co-operation on both sides of the chamber none of these reforms will work anyhow. Conceding the points that the honourable member for Moore  (Mr Hyde)  made in answer to some of the objections, all I can say is that I think the reforms are worthwhile. They are a step in the right direction. They might not work, but then they might. We will not know unless they are given a go. I think it would be taking a great risk not to accept the challenge that has been put before us. 
-This afternoon the Parliament debated the following as a matter of public importance: 
The urgent need for Government support of international initiatives for the provision of humanitarian aid to the war and famine sticken people of Kampuchea. 
I regret that I was unable to participate in that debate, but I do not want to let this day pass without my making some comment on this very tragic subject. We have a situation where the callous regimes of this area continue to permit the massive genocide of their people. China and the Khmer Rouge, Vietnam and its puppet regime in Kampuchea have been prepared to allow their political differences to permit the sacrifice already of thousands of innocent citizens. On the admission of the Government of Kampuchea there is the imminent death by starvation of at least two million men, women and children. I am amazed that the international community has seen fit to indulge in diplomatic haggling while millions are dying. Government officials of all countries knew at the beginning of this year that the crops had not been planted in Kampuchea. Everyone knew that there would be famine. Therefore, it should have been possible to give long and detailed consideration to the ways and means of distributing food and medical supplies to these people in a way which could have overcome these diplomatic niceties at a much earlier stage. 
All of a sudden, there is a crisis where the entire population of a country may be wiped out because the great national and international governments and agencies were more concerned about diplomacies than the sanctity of human life. If we have left it too late to help these people then this period of the 20th century will forever be a blot on the conscience of us all. It is a shame that the goodwill of so many nations which is now being exhibited was not displayed much earlier. I do not care about the butcher leaders of these countries. I think it is a shame that we have had to recognise the authority of people like Idi Amin, Pol Pot and Heng Samrin in the name of international diplomacy. Nor do I think it relevant at this time to indulge in futile debate about the pros and cons of the Vietnam warwho was right and who was wrong. All that is now important is to feed two million starving people. If we cannot do it through bilateral aid due to problems of diplomatic recognition, then we should devote all available resources to the relevant international agencies while the political debate continues. At last we are now doing this. 
I recognise that Kampuchea has no effective infrastructure, either human or physical, and certainly the international community will have to do something about that in the rehabilitation phase of any aid program. It will be absolutely necessary in the longer term aspect of the aid program to provide self-supporting technical assistance and professional personnel to that country. That is for the future. There will be no need for these longer term initiatives if we fail to provide direct food and medical aid now, because if that is not done there will be no people left to assist in the future. Therefore, notwithstanding the distribution problems and doubts about whether or not all the needy will receive the aid, this is a risk we must take. We have to take that risk now. 
This Parliament expressed its bipartisan concern today. I know the Government is concerned, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  is doing all he can to ensure that this country plays its part in helping the people of Kampuchea. Three thousand five hundred tonnes of rice is a start but, according to the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones),  it will keep the population alive on scant rations for only 2.8 days. That gives an indication of the extent to which Australia and the rest of the world must increase this aid program. I ask the Government to maintain and to expand its present efforts in this regard. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to keep us fully informed of the emerging situation. I hope that he will present a full ministerial statement to the Parliament outlining the problems we have in assisting Kampuchea and the course of action open to Australia and to the international community to overcome these problems and to ensure that this impending tragedy can be averted. 
I take up the suggestion made today that perhaps a small delegation from this Parliament could go to this region and gauge first hand exactly what is required. It seems to me that within this Parliament there is a genuine concern for the people of Kampuchea but there is also a feeling of general helplessness and frustration about our ability to do anything. I would like to see all of us bring to some form of concrete action the concern that we have expressed today. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do all that he can to accommodate the views that have been expressed in this Parliament today. 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs responded to reports suggesting that Australia is considering the possibility of providing a contingent in a multinational force to police the Sinai both during and after the Israeli withdrawal in accordance with the terms of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty? What is the 
Government's attitude towards the establishment of this force and Australia's possible involvement in it, particularly following the disbandment of the United Nations Emergency Force in the Sinai, to which Australia previously contributed? 
I am very pleased that this question has been raised today because it gives me the opportunity to explain away some of the misconceptions which presently exist regarding the Government's immigration policy- misconceptions which seem to be shared by honourable members opposite. I would like to start by saying that last week when the Estimates Committee was looking into the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs it was made clear that it is too early to make the kind of judgment on the Numerical Multifactor Assessment System which the honourable members opposite are presently trying to do. I quote from the transcript of that committee. The  Deputy  Secretary of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs said: 
I think it is operating under a misconception to see any effects of the new policy, which really dates from 1 January this year, in the intake figures for the financial year 1978-79 . . . At this stage we do not have any clear indication from the settler arrival statistics of what the precise impact of the various categories of the new immigration policy . . . will be. 
We do have a reasonable indication . . . that the policy is operating in the ways it was intended to operate. 
So in many respects the Opposition has jumped the gun in coming forward with its allegations. I think honourable members opposite would do well to examine the NUMAS points system in detail, as the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has outlined it. Quite obviously, within the economic factor component, the highest points are scored by applicants who have skills and whose skills are in occupations for which there is an unsatisfied demand in Australia. In fact, for an independent applicant, there is almost no scope at all for his being accepted into Australia on a permanent basis if he will be competing with Australians for jobs or cannot make a viable economic contribution in his own right. 
This Government certainly believes that in the longer term we should seek to fill gaps in the labour market from within Australia. The fact is however that there are long lead times, and the Government has placed the great emphasis of its retraining programs and its education funding in those vocational areas for which it is perceived that there will be a long term demand. The honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  should also examine the principles of immigration which are followed by this Government and which were presented to the House by the Minister last year. The second of these principles states: 
Apart from people admitted as refugees and for family reunion, migrant entry criteria should be developed on the basis of benefit to the Australian community, and the social, economic and related requirements within Australia. As a general rule, Australia will not admit for settlement people who would represent an economic burden to Australia . . . 
This clearly is the basis of NUMAS and the basis for the administration of our immigration program. The present policy is therefore being administered in a way which is sensitive to Australia's domestic labour market problems. If honourable members opposite are concerned about relationships between immigration and unemployment, they should have a close look at their own party's policy in this area. It is the Australian Labor Party's policy which will have a negative rather than a positive effect on employment levels in Australia. The Opposition policy to give family reunion a high priority and to extend it to brothers, sisters and generally to non-dependent relatives has very serious repercussions for the labour market and shows a great disregard for the unemployed in this country. 
What will happen if the Australian Labor Party's policy is ever implemented? I again refer to the question I asked at last week's Estimates Committee on this subject. The best guide as to what would happen can be gauged from the experience of 1973-74. In referring to what were then known as Bl and B2 categories of applicants, the spokesman for the Department said: 
A total of 99,000 persons were included in personal nominations in 1 973-74, when people in category B 1 -that is close non-dependent relatives, non-dependent parents, and nondependent children, brothers and sisters, including in-law relationships- were eligible. Seventy per cent of that total of just on 100,000 were in that category Bl. 
In other words, the bulk of the Opposition's immigration intake would not be related to labour market considerations at all. It is strange that the Opposition, when in office, brought immigration levels to the lowest point on record and did away with a separate Department of Immigration, incorporating that Department with the Department of Labour. Now it would promise an immigration intake comprised mainly of those people who would be competing for jobs at the most competitive end of the labour market, that is the unskilled area, or the area where there is no specific occupational demand. 
On available indications this would mean an annual intake of up to 40,000 people in the first year of the scheme, and in subsequent years there would be a geometric progression upwards. This would lead to an uncontrolled intake, both in numbers and in composition, which is likely to place unbearable burdens on the labour market. It is by no means impossible that within three years of the introduction of an open door policy for brothers and sisters, as many as 100,000 brothers and sisters would be coming to Australia as migrants. Regardless of the numbers, it is significant that most nominations for brothers and sisters would be for persons from countries which have not been our traditional source of migrants. The nominations would be for people who are unskilled or who have the bare minimum of education and training. 
If, in government, the Labor Party decides to limit these numbers, then it will have to adopt a selection procedure and move towards the categories contained in the NUMAS system. But on this issue the Labor Party cannot have it both ways. On the other hand, in the administration of a sensibly controlled intake this Government has been able to accommodate the basic domestic constraints of the Australian economy, and at the same time sensibly meet the immediate family reunion requirements of our migrant population. An examination of the NUMAS scheme and our overall guidelines make that quite obvious. 
The Labor Party never seems to accept that there are positive employment aspects to a sensibly controlled immigration program. It seems to ignore the fact that in Australia there has been a long-term correlation between population growth, economic development and rising living standards. Immigration provides us with a labour force mobility which would not otherwise exist. This is important in Australia with a sparse population distribution such as we have. It is particularly important in a State like Western Australia where we are going to require a massive increase in skilled workers in the next decade of growth in the North West. 
Immigration also overcomes leads and lags in our domestic retraining schemes, which we do not underestimate. It certainly helps to overcome occupational immobility. As the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  has already pointed out, for skilled workers entering employment, additional jobs are created for semi-skilled and unskilled workers. Of course, immigration means a greater demand for housing, consumer durables and other goods and services produced in Australia. I shall quote from Kenneth Rivett, Associate Professor of Economics at the University of New South Wales, who when commenting on the Green Paper stated: 
The Green Paper . . . rightly points out that it is illogical to concentrate attention on the effects of migration on the supply of labour, especially during recession, without admitting the demand-creating features of our immigration program. 
Professor Rivett says that the migrant who gets a job spends his wages on goods and services that for the most part are made or rendered by Australians. This, in turn, sustains additional employment. This is particularly important when the independent migrants are accepted on the basis that they will not be competing against other Australians for certain skilled employment when they enter Australia. Quite clearly, the social infrastructure and the basic tertiary industry infrastructure of Australia will be more optimally and more efficiently used by a larger population. This would have beneficial effects for all Australians. I would suggest that this matter of public importance is a nonsense and I conclude by quoting from the article of Professor Corden which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday. I think it bears repeating. Professor Corden is the Professor of Economics at the Australian National University. He said: 
The general evidence from Australia's own history as well as the post-war histories of European countries which absorbed vast numbers of guest workers and immigrants, is that immigration does not increase unemployment. 
My own view is that increased immigration at this time would probably act as a valuable stimulus to the economy, yielding widespread benefits. 
So clearly, with the responsible controls administered by this Government, under the NUMAS scheme, we have positive employment effects through our policy, whereas the policy alternative of the Opposition is disastrous. It would lose control of our intake, the size and the composition of that intake, and the people coming in under the scheme of the Opposition would be competing for jobs at the unskilled end of the market which will add further to the unemployment levels in this country. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
-Contrary to the opinions expressed by a number of honourable members in this debate, I would like to say that I think the House of Representatives Estimates committees have worked well. Certainly there have been some rough edges but it would be a pity to do away with them on the first try. I think it is a necessary start to the reform of the proceedings of this House. We often seem to forget that we are charged not only with the legislative function but also with the responsibility for scrutinising the public expenditure which is undertaken by the authority of this Parliament on behalf of the taxpayers of Australia. It has become clear to me during the Estimates committees hearings that the way in which financial information is presented to the Parliament makes it almost impossible for us to monitor, scrutinise and evaluate public financial spending and administration in a meaningful way. 
During the consideration of the estimates for the Department of Finance I made the point that Parliament has made little progress in seeking to redress this situation. The House of Representatives last revised its Standing Orders in connection with the Budget in 1962. The Joint Committee on Public Accounts last reported on the form of the Budget documents some 25 years ago. It is clear that the bureaucracy has done precious little in this area. The Department of Finance is responsible for the general oversight of the Government's financial transactions, within Australia and outside of Australia, and it is responsible for researching management accounting techniques for application by departments. In my view it should give top priority to investigating ways and means of presenting financial information to this Parliament in a way which allows us to evaluate that expenditure in a more responsible manner. 
This year the total outlays in the Budget which was introduced in August by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  amount to $3 1,692m. Obviously there is a bureaucratic readiness in Canberra to spend taxpayers' money notwithstanding the political resolve of the Government to control it. But there has been an historical reluctance to evaluate that expenditure properly. We as the representatives of the taxpayers of Australia have a statutory obligation to act as a watchdog. At the present time this is not being achieved. The information received by the Parliament gives a record of expenditure but it does not really account for it. Reviews of economy and efficiency are undertaken by units within departments and more recently through the Audit Amendment Bill of 1978 the role of the Auditor-General has been extended to cover efficiency audits. 
In contrast to developments which have occurred in relation to economy and efficiency, the House of Representatives Committee on Expenditure is the only parliamentary committee that evaluates the effectiveness of programs. But it can do this only on an ad hoc basis and it certainly cannot undertake this role over the whole range of government expenditure. To some extent history has been against us in this regard. Most of the information the Parliament receives is related to expenditure on inputs, salaries, maintenance, overtime, travel costs, office equipment and so forth. The documents we received during the Estimates committees hearings in the form of explanatory notes on departmental expenditure gave a detailed record of these inputs. This kind of presentation of expenditure may have been appropriate at a time when the Commonwealth operated administrative type departments. This has now changed because the scope of government expenditure in this country has increased. It is now directed at assisting individuals and organisations within our society. I mention that the departments covering the areas of health, welfare and education spend about $14.5 billion per annum, which is about 46 per cent of the total outlays of the Commonwealth. Obviously the extent and intent of public expenditure have changed over time. However, the process of scrutinising that expenditure has not changed. It is estimated that approximately one thousand separate public expenditure programs are in operation at any given time and between 98 per cent and 99 per cent of the annual Budget is presently accounted for by on-going expenditures. 
Many of these on-going programs are administered over a long period. They gather their own momentum without ever being evaluated properly by this Parliament. We seem to appropriate moneys each year on the basis of what was spent in the previous year plus a little bit to cater for inflation. But we very seldom ask basic questions. It seems to me that the sign of a good Minister these days, particularly in the eyes of the bureaucracy, is the Minister who is able to extract the most money out of the Treasurer. I do not fully agree with that. 
I think the time comes when it is the responsibility of this chamber to evaluate those expenditures. I was pleased to hear the Treasurer interject that he does not use that as a yardstick in his evaluation of his colleagues in the Cabinet. These expenditures should be presented to the Parliament in the form of program statements. We need to know not just the costs of these programs but their objectives. We should examine this automatic funding process on a regular basis and find out whether or not the stated objectives of the expenditure are being met. In other words, we need an evaluation. We need to know whether the expenditure has been effective. I think it is quite amazing that in all the time since Federation this Parliament has not been given the information which enables this kind of assessment to be made. 
We know that there are problems in arriving at program statements. There are problems in distributing overheads from various departments engaged in any single program. That certainly creates difficulties. Certainly many items in the Appropriation Bills and in Budget Paper No. 4 identify particular programs, but that information is partial. That identification is partial. There are similar limitations to the functional classification of Budget outlays in Budget Statement No. 3. So I urge the adoption, as far as possible, of program statements by the Government. 
In that context I would certainly support the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure contained in the report entitled 'Parliament and Public Expenditure' which was introduced into this House earlier this year. It may be interesting to quote some of the evidence given to that Committee. The report stated: 
Several departments supported development of a program-type information system. The Secretary of the Department of Transport said his Department was working towards a program approach to forward estimates  He saw several advantages of this approach and said it allows management 'to get a measure of output as opposed to input ', to consider alternatives and to assist in the determination of priorities . . . The Auditor-General said program information would 'assist any evaluation by my office of the level of economy and efficiency achieved by the organisation.' 
More interestingly, I think, is this statement: 
The Under-Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet said that if more resources were available and the question was where they could be best devoted then 'the general thrust of the Committee's approach towards greater provision (of information) on a program basis would be a high priority'. 
So support within the bureaucracy is obviously there and I urge the Government to translate this latent sympathy into effective action through the Department of Finance. 
Until this form of financial presentation occurs, the Estimates committees will be unable to carry out their functions properly and this Parliament will be denied an information base which would enable it to discuss public expenditure and priorities in a meaningful way. It is interesting to note that in the Estimates committee hearings relating to the Department of Finance held on Tuesday there was a bipartisan approach to this question. Members of the Opposition who were present supported the thrust of the arguments that I put to the committee. I was very pleased also to see that not only did Government members support the concept of trying to introduce program statements but that the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  said that he must acknowledge the force of the arguments put. So I think that that is an encouraging start. 
I urge the Government to adopt the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. After all, it is not the expenditure of our money which we are evaluating; it is the money which comes from the taxpayers of Australia. If we are not spending it effectively, if it is not achieving its objectives, I think we should either give it back to the taxpayers in the form of lower taxes in this country or divert it to areas of real need where we know that stated objectives can be met. The introduction of these programs will certainly enable this Parliament to achieve one of its major statutory functions which hitherto it has not been able to perform because the information has not been available to us. 
I support the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill because it secures the future of the homeless persons welfare program. Until now there has not been any guarantee that this program would be an on-going one, which has meant that neither the Government nor the organisations delivering this welfare have been able to undertake long term planning of programs designed to assist homeless men and women. Many church and charitable organisations have spent a good deal of time and energy in raising their own money and utilising their own resources to deliver programs under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. Some valuable government assistance also has been provided through capital grants, food and accommodation subsidies, rental subsidies and subsidies for the salaries of social welfare workers, but until now the Act has required statutory extensions following periods of evaluation and review. By removing from the enabling legislation reference to a prescribed period the status of this Act and of those organisations and individuals operating under it has been enhanced and the Act can now be given the long term welfare priority which it rightly deserves. I say that because this is an area of real need. In previous speeches in this Parliament I have referred to the findings of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty and to departmental surveys which have highlighted the tragic dimensions of this problem at both the individual and the community level. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  in introducing this Bill in another place, said: 
The allocation of funds for new capital projects will, of course, be decided at the appropriate time. Other subsidies under the Act, in relation to salaries, food and accommodation and meals, continue independently of this Bill. 
Now that the statutory authority of this legislation has been firmly established by this Bill, the Government should try to restore an appropriate level of funding to eligible organisations under the Act if the intent of the original legislation is to be achieved. 
The extent of the problem of homelessness or of the skid row population is very difficult to quantify and no census has been taken to gauge its incidence in Australia. It is a geographically and socially mobile population. The Minister, in her second reading speech, said that at present there are 113 approved centres and these provide overnight accommodation for something like 3,600 men and women. Point-in-time estimates would place the number of homeless persons in Australia at many times that figure. Numerically these figures may not be substantial but the number of people who move into and out of homelessness throughout a given year may be many times this figure. I refer again to the Minister's second reading speech when she said that a total of 947,380 persons were accommodated in 1978 while 1,056,832 meals were made available to non-residents. Those figures highlight the problem of trying to put an exact figure on the incidence of homelessness. I do not know how much double counting is included in those figures and just how many individuals were looked after at homeless persons hostels but I suspect it is a growing problem. Qualitatively the social and health problems of many of these people place them in a position of hardship which is far more severe than that of many other categories of disadvantaged people in the community. 
This matter has been examined by the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into poverty in Australia and several departmental surveys have been carried out. Some of these findings show that the homeless people have experienced a disrupted and discontinuous process of care in the formative and vulnerable years of their childhood. A high proportion never attended school. There has been a history of family alcoholism and a strong relationship existed between parental alcoholism and drinking problems early in their lives. For many there has been a significant childhood experience in a corrective institution. As to social contact, there has been a high usage of church or welfare centres and a virtual absence of family ties. Surveys have shown that one in four people have been homeless for more than 10 years and for most the incidence of previous illnesses was far higher than that for the general population and that as a group homeless men appear to be prematurely aged. 
A number of other surveys have shown that the percentage of epilepsy and venereal disease among them was 10 times as high as that for the community at large and the incidence of tuberculosis was four times as high. The publication  A Place of Dignity  put out by the Department of Social Security in June of last year also found that there was a high rate of illness and disability among the homeless persons surveyed. This really is an area of significant need in Australian society, but in terms of the total federal Budget this program is not significant. I think that substantial improvements could be made to government funding in this area of need without having a significant effect on Budget aggregates. 
There is no doubt in my mind that there is an urgent need to increase the food and accommodation subsidies payable to eligible organisations under the Act. I hope that, within the context of the next Budget, the Government will give every consideration to that. These subsidies, which are paid at a daily rate of 75c for each homeless person to whom both food and accommodation are, provided and at 25c for each meal supplied to non-resident homeless persons, have not been increased since the inception of the Act in 1 974. Over the past six years of relatively high inflation the value of these subsidies therefore has been gradually but substantially eroded. 
I raised this matter during an Estimates committee examination of the estimates for the Department of Social Security in September of this year and it was stated quite specifically that the failure by all political parties and governments to adjust these subsidies has caused some financial difficulties for organisations operating under the Act. I keep in close contact with some of the organisations in Perth which look after homeless men and women and youths and their experience certainly shows that there is a need to update these subsidies. In one 35-bed hostel the food bill comes to $1,100 a month but the subsidies received amount to only $400 a month. This calculation does not include other expenses, such as building maintenance and the administrative costs which inevitably arise in any substantial organisation. 
In the particular institution to which I referred, providing the linen service for one man for one night costs 40c. With the meals, accommodation and overhead expenses it is little wonder that a subsidy rate of 75c per day for one man leaves many of these institutions in a difficult financial position. Yet it is the church and other charitable organisations which the Government, under this Act, is trying to encourage to stay in this field of welfare to help the homeless and destitute people in this country. Organisations such as the Salvation Army, the St Vincent de Paul Society and the Jesus People- which is a uniquely Western Australian group who look after the homeless group in Western Australia and do an excellent job- must remain in this field of welfare because the people they are helping are those who are often referred to as 'skid row' people. These people do not need financial assistance only; they need compassion, sympathy and, basically, a friendly hand. 
The publication  A Place of Dignity  summed it up well when assessing the kinds of organisations which should be eligible to receive grants. The publication affirmed: 
That organisations currently in the field are the best friends and allies that homeless people could have, and that any defects are due mainly to lack of money and staff. 
I do not believe that governments should provide all the finance required to care properly for this area of welfare. If this were done much of the essential spirit and dignity which comes from the church and charitable and other non-profit welfare organisations would disappear. But I do believe that the capital and recurrent funding of these organisations needs to be upgraded substantially if these organisations are to be able to stay in this field. If this does not occur, sheer financial necessity will force the entire program back into the hands of the Government. This would be against the best interests of homeless persons who would be cared for by an impersonal and bureaucratic structure, rather than by, say, the church organisations. It certainly would increase the overall cost of caring for these homeless people. 
The cost of upgrading the program, as it is presently structured, would not be great. In the evidence given to the Estimates committee of this House on the Department of Social Security I was told that the cost of providing food and accommodation subsidies in 1979-80 was $1,160,000. In other  words, by  spending an additional $1.1 6m we could double that level of assistance. If we do not do so, the agencies in the field will have to devote more of their valuable time to fund raising than to looking after these needy people. This may well result in some of these organisations being unable to continue their work. It might mean also that the organisations will have to charge the users of their services a much higher percentage of their present pension or benefit than is charged at present. This may mean that these men, women and youths will be discouraged from entering homeless persons' hostels and will be forced back into the streets and on to the park benches. So an additional $1.1 6m would go a long way towards helping to solve these problems. That figure represents 0.01 per cent of the Budget outlays for 1979-80 which are classified as social security and welfare payments. Yet, on the other hand, this would represent a 100 per cent increase in the very important recurrent capitation subsidies which are paid to those organisations eligible under the Homeless Persons Assistance Act. Following this catch-up adjustment, indexation of these subsidies also would be a desirable and necessary policy initiative, as soon as the Government was able to do so. 
I would like to refer also to the salary subsidies, which amount to 50 per cent of the salary of a social welfare worker employed at a homeless persons' assistance centre. According to the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  at present subsidies valued at $320,000 are being provided for 44 social welfare workers at 40 different homeless persons' centres. Social welfare workers need formal qualifications in order to be eligible for this subsidy. They need experience in the field, and they have to furnish duty statements. That is quite reasonable. Organisations in the field have informed me that some liberalisation in this area would be beneficial. In considering the nature of the people seeking the refuge of these centres a total reliance on formal qualifications is considered by some to be too restrictive. The Minister should also look at this matter closely. 
If the purpose of these centres is to provide some scope for rehabilitation rather than just to mount a salvaging operation, additional suitably trained staff, quite apart from social welfare officers, may be required. Further, there is a need particularly in the larger centres, for supervisory and administrative staff. In Perth I refer to the Tandara Hospital, which is administered by the Salvation Army. Organisations which operate on a large scale like this certainly have a need for supervisory and administrative staff. Taking all these factors into account, I would suggest that more than one salary-subsidised person may be required at a number of these centres. I am advised by departmental officers that there is no maximum limit to the number of salarysubsidised staff which can be employed at any one centre, although in practice usually no more than one person per organisation is in receipt of a salary subsidy. I make this point because these centres are generally open for 24 hours a day. A lot of man hours are involved and much of their most urgent work is done during the late hours of the night. This requires the employment of many people. One 35-bed hostel in my electorate employs nine welfare workers. If the hostel is to offer a responsible 24-hour a day service, it is deemed necessary by the organisation to have salary-subsidised staff. This area warrants further attention when the Act eventually comes before the Government for review. 
By all standards the annual appropriation for capital and recurrent grants under this Act is not significant in terms of the overall Budget. Yet there seems to be a great reluctance to preserve the real value, particularly of the recurrent funding. I urge the Government to re-assess the financial aspects of this Act when it is being considered in the context of the next Budget. This problem is an almost inevitable consequence of the conflict which occurs in determining welfare priorities when universal payments assume a significance, both political and budgetary, which precludes a flexible approach in appropriating funds to emerging areas of need. The more we rely upon universal payments in the social welfare field, the more that prevents a total concentration of scarce resources in areas of need. It does not permit flexibility in responding to emerging areas of need. It certainly precludes the possibility of offering general tax cuts which, in the long term, would be of great benefit to the whole community and more particularly to the unemployed. 
I know that the Government is seeking to stress the criterion of need as the basis of disbursing welfare funds. I acknowledge also that Australia has a better record than most countries in concentrating on anti-poverty measures. I would like to quote from an article which was recently published by Professor Henderson in a publication  Public Expenditures and Social Policy in Australia.  It reads: 
Several countries which spend 8 to 9 per cent of gross domestic product on income maintenance only directly spend 2 to 3 per cent on the relief of poverty, because so much income maintenance consists of pensions, or benefits related to past earnings or contributions to a pension fund, not to needs. In Canada, Norway, Sweden, UK and USA only 30-40 per cent of the income transfers go to the poorest 20 per cent of the population. In Australia, on the other hand, a very large proportion of income transfers do go to the poorest . . . Unless the means test is abolished for all old age pensioners, or the system replaced by a national superannuation scheme, it seems probable that the Australian income transfers will continue to be directed to the poor to a much greater extent. 
Notwithstanding this desirable method of administering a welfare policy, I think that we have a long way to go and the homeless persons assistance program highlights that fact. I find it strange that in a country of 14 million people, strongly endowed with the world's most valuable resources, enjoying one of the highest standards of living in the world and spending $14.7 billion annually on health, welfare and education, areas of real need involving minuscule appropriations remain relatively ignored. I do not think that it is the fault of the economy. Any economy that is able to produce $14'A billion worth of transfer payments is healthy and strong. It is rather a question of priorities between universality and selectivity in welfare payments, which I have debated time and again in this chamber. 
Perhaps there is a tendency for policy makers in democratic systems to listen to the highly organised and highly articulate welfare groups, which leads mainly to income transfers being made from middle income earners to other middle income earners. Homeless persons are certainly neither organised nor articulate and others have to speak on their behalf. Whatever the reason, I strongly suggest to the Minister for Social Security, who has constantly advocated a needs approach to welfare, that she give a top priority to re-examining the present funding levels under this Act which services a very needy section of the community. I support the Bill. It certainly elevates the status of the Act and gives continuity to the program. It will assist long term planning by all organisations and individuals involved in this program. 
I refer the Minister for Foreign Affairs to media reports stating that the revolutionary groups which seized the United States of America Embassy in Tehran are proposing to release certain of the hostages and to subject the remaining hostages to trial on charges of espionage. I ask the Minister: What is the Government's attitude towards the release of some of the United States hostages in Tehran? What is the Government's attitude to the decision to place the remaining hostages on trial, bearing in mind the predictable outcome of the other political trials conducted by representatives of the Islamic Revolutionary Council? Has the Minister expressed this Government's concern over these most recent developments to officials of the Iranian Embassy in Canberra and to the United States Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on  6  November 1979: 
1 ) Has it yet been decided who will attend the public conference in Sydney during 1980 to discuss the theme, Towards An Australian Family Policy. 
Who will administer and finance this conference. 
How many delegates will attend the conference from each of the States and Territories of Australia. 
How many of the these delegates will be full-time mothers from single-income, two-parent families. 
How many of these delegates will be fathers from single-income, two-parent families. 
How many of these delegates will be mothers or fathers from single-parent families. 
What are the qualifications of other delegates (excluding those in parts (4), (S) and (6)) attending the public conference. 
Who will pay the fares of those delegates attending the conference referred to in parts (4), (S) and (6). 
