Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the published results of experiments conducted in America by Drs Hammond and Auerbach titled: 'The Effects of Cigarette Smoking upon Dogs'? Does he know that for the first time these doctors produced lung cancer in a significantly large animal as a result of heavy cigarette smoking in tests, the dogs having been conditioned to smoke cigarettes as humans do? In view of this further proof of the dangers of cigarette smoking being added to the mass of statistical data already available, will the Commonwealth treat as urgent the negotiations with the States to control the massive advertising that is designed to convince our young people that smoking is a clean, safe and adult habit? Will urgent consideration be given to forcing the labelling of cigarettes as a menace to health and the listing of the tar and nicotine content of the product on the package? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party joins with the other parties in congratulating the representative of  Her  Majesty, the Governor-General, who delivered the Speech that we are debating now. We consider that there are political deficiencies in the Speech and we have drawn attention to them in a very practical manner. My sympathy is extended to  Senator Georges.  1 appreciate his concern that the Parliament did not meet from 25th November last until 3rd March. Like many others, I was filled with expectancy that, when we arrived here oi« 3rd March after the long period of recess, all members would apply themselves to their parliamentary duties, having arrived here full of vigour and vim. I thought that they would express themselves in parliamentary circles and that the Government would have a progressive plan to put forward. 
I admit that the plan outlined in the Governor-General's Speech is an extensive one, even if we disagree with it in part. We have expressed our disagreement in practical terms by moving an amendment to the Address-in-Reply. What did the Australian Labor Party do from 25th November to 3rd March? Its members arrived here with no plan of action, as an opposition, to protest at the Speech delivered by the Governor-General on behalf of the Government. The Labor Party had no amendment listed to show its disagreement. In spite of the attacks that  Senator Georges  made tonight - and this is where he earns my sympathy - he will probably vote in favour of the original motion tomorrow, unless he chooses to vote for our amendment. It has been left to the Democratic Labor Party to put to good purpose the exceptionally long period during which Parliament was in recess. 
When Parliament did meet, we arrived here forewarned, forearmed and prepared to move an amendment as a means of practical opposition to the Government. We will move amendments to and make suggestions for the improvements of the legislation foreshadowed in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. It is this failure by the Labor Party that earns for  Senator Georges  my sympathy for having to make the speech that he has been forced to make on this occasion. 
There are suggestions in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that have far reaching effects. One matter which has already drawn the fire of State Premiers is the suggestion, which was referred to by  Senator Georges,  that the Commonwealth will decide by introducing legislation who is responsible for the off-shore areas along Australia's coastline. We agree that if there is doubt on this issue it should be resolved, but we are mindful that notwithstanding that doubt in the past the States have accepted responsibility for those areas. It has now been suggested in the Governor-General's Speech that in order to clarify the situation the Commonwealth will introduce legislation and leave it to the States to challenge the legislation. The Commonwealth proposes by legislation to take from the States those responsibilities which previously the States thought belonged to them and to continue to accept those responsibilities until the courts decide that the Commonwealth has not the power to implement such legislation. 
The Democratic Labor Party feels that this situation should be resolved. But mindful of the fact that we have had federation for nearly 70 years and that the situation has not been resolved up to this point, that until now the States have largely accepted the idea that the off-shore areas were within their responsibility, we believe that there is a better way than a deliberate challenge through legislative action by the Commonwealth. We believe also that the Commonwealth should, before taking these steps, consider having a full conference with the States to ascertain precisely where agreement can be reached between the States and the Commonwealth to resolve this situation. Although the urgency of this question has perhaps been spotlighted by the discovery of off-shore oil and the prospect of the discovery of minerals, there are other responsibilities which must be accepted by whoever ultimately accepts responsibility for our off-shore areas. It would be a sad thing if the Commonwealth, having assumed responsibility, found that it was impracticable for it to prevent the pollution of our off-shore waters by the States which, relieved of responsibility, may ultimately develop a cavalier attitude towards a province which has become the sole responsibility of the Commonwealth. 1 see that  Senator Georges  is looking at me for further information. Having in mind the off-shore search for oil, perhaps 1 may ask him whether he, as a Queenslander, is prepared to allow the Great Barrier Reef to fall under the control of the Commonwealth. I remind him that in that event the interests of Tasmania and Western Australia, which are far removed from the Reef, could be deciding factors in decisions taken on the control and future management of the Great Barrier Reef. As a Queenslander he should give deep thought to that question before making a hasty decision on what is the best course to follow on this occasion. I do not suggest that we should have a closed mind on this issue. We all are Australians and control of our off-shore waters is in the interests of Australia. It is a non-political issue. We do not feel that the best method of resolving the situation is for the Commonwealth to take unto itself the responsibility of passing legislation and throwing the onus onto the States to challenge such legislation to ascertain where responsibility for the off-shore areas lies. I should like to refer to comments by the Premiers of various States as reported in the Press. We must remember that this Senate had its origin in the desire of the States to have representation as States in the Commonwealth Parliament. 
 Yes, I am a good old State rightist because I believe that the Commonwealth has tremendous responsibilities. There can be no doubt that the States have ceded to the Commonwealth any responsibilities for defence. An examination of the history of Australia reveals that there would never have been federation had it not been agreed to by the States. This spirit of co-operation in the interests of the requirements of the whole of Australia should prevail at all times if we are to continue to have good government. By the application of good common Australian sense we have been brought to the stage of development that we have now achieved and can see prospects for this young nation in the future, if we do not lose our heads. Let us proceed with an attitude of moderation to each other instead of challenging and fighting each other over questions such as that being discussed at the moment. 
I propose to say a word about credit unions because 1 feel that  Senator Georges  left the real issue somewhat in the air. The Government is now endeavouring to bring within the ambit of the legislation relating to homes savings grants young people who save through credit unions as well as those who save through the various banking institutions in this country. The Government has seen fit to suggest in the GovernorGeneral's Speech that legislation will be introduced to enable credit unions to take part in this very worthwhile and admirable project. However, I suggest that the Government does not wish to have levelled at it charges of hypocrisy and double dealing. Nor does it want it suggested that it is introducing legislation which will allow credit unions to become part and parcel of the scheme but, at the same time, is adopting proposals which will virtually exclude the greater proportion of credit unions. A point that  Senator Georges  has missed is that the very enactment of the previous legislation which debarred credit unions from participating in the homes savings grants scheme has prevented them from developing in the field of lending for home ownership to an extent which the Government now suggests shall be the criterion by which they shall be adjudged as being eligible to take part in the scheme. That is a vital point which should be taken into consideration. The limits that the Government proposes to inflict upon the credit unions will make it impossible for those organisations because they have not been able to develop this form of credit as they were excluded under the previous legislation. I have sufficient confidence in the Government - I hope it is not misplaced 
Let the facts speak for themselves. That is preferable to a situation in which  Senator Georges,  who is not a Government supporter, purports to speak for the Government. Why prejudice the situation before we arrive at it? Let us give the Government a chance to prove its sincerity before  Senator Georges  answers my question, which was directed not at him but at the Government. I do not appeal to the Government at this stage because I do not think that is necessary. I believe that when the Government realises that the provisions of the proposed legislation will exclude the people whom the Government says it wishes now to include it will take whatever steps are necessary to see that a more moderate approach is taken to the question of eligibility. I suggest that it will take whatever steps are necessary before the legislation reaches the stage where the Parliament is called upon to accept or reject it. 
I believe that the Government will be swayed when it hears the very fair arguments put on behalf of the credit unions and that it will fulfil its responsibilities as a government and try to do what it says it wants to do, that is, to bring the credit unions within the ambit of the legislation. We have only today had the opportunity to examine the legislation and we are not sure of the full implications of its clauses, but we are already sure that one clause which I incited  Senator Georges  to read will exclude the great majority of credit unions, so we direct the attention of the Government to that clause. 
I wish to mention also the very controversial subject of Vietnam and the Government's statement in relation to it. It was a reasonable and sound statement at this time. I have listened to the debate and have noted what  Senator Georges  had to say. He seems to have read a particularly onesided version of Australia's involvement in Vietnam. Probably it was sponsored by my old friend  Senator Kennelly,  a senior member of his Party, who spoke last night.  Senator Greenwood  is interjecting. 1 do not need his assistance. 
I did not hear the honourable senator's interjection sufficiently to judge that aspect but I assure him that I can do without his assistance.  Senator Kennelly  made the same primary blunder as is made by those who attempt to adjudge the Vietnam situation from the wrong point of view when he suggested that the Americans or the Australians are there to subdue the Vietnamese. Of course nothing is further from the truth, and he and his Party know it. We are not there to subdue anyone. Wc are there to protect people who asked us for protection at a time when they were being terrorised, slaughtered and attacked in an attempt to subdue them to a political ideology that they do not want. This is not the first occasion on which we have done this kind of thing. Those who persist in trying to view the Vietnam incident as entirely separate from anything else that has happened in South East Asia in the past 20 years make this fundamental blunder. We were in Korea for the very same reasons and the Party to which  Senator Georges  belongs was in favour of our being in Korea. The trade union movement of this country - the Australian Council of Trade Unions - carried resolutions supporting Australia's commitment behind the United Nations in Korea. 
They tell us that this is an entirely different proposition from what happened in Korea. Will they tell us how it is different? 
The United Nations made a decision but the terrorism and the slaughter of the civilian population in South Korea were precisely the same, from the same people and from the same source as what has happened in South Vietnam, as what has happened in Laos, as what has happened in Czechoslovakia, as what has happened in East Berlin and as what has happened everywhere else in the world. Yet they want to take this one incident of Vietnam, extract it from the history of the world and say: 'Look at it separately, lt is different.' They know in their own hearts that it is not different so they have to manufacture the idea that America and Australia went to Vietnam to subdue the population. I suggest to them as a practical proposition that the military power which subdued the military power of Japan could have subdued the military power of North Vietnam in a very short time if it had been out to subdue it. 
Of course it has not, because it never set out to do that. It set out to protect the civil rights of the people of South Vietnam. It has never crossed the border to Hanoi. If it did the members of the Labor Party would suggest, as they do even in relation to what might be regarded as the minor mosquito bite of whether Burchett gets a passport, that we should declare war. The pacifists tell us that the solution of the problem is to declare war on North Vietnam which has insurgents in South Vietnam. To suit their own convenience of argument the doves suddenly become the eagles of war and want to declare war to decide whether Burchett should get a passport. Imagine it - declare war to decide whether a man who, if you read his own books and writings, is a self-confessed traitor to the armed forces fighting in foreign lands for this country, whether they consider it to be right or wrong, should receive a passport. They want us to declare war but they tell us at the same time that such a declaration of war would involve this country in a major conflict with Russia and China. Why do they say that? 
Yes, both of them, because they both support the North Vietnamese who fight not only in South Vietnam but who have 60,000 troops in Laos and 40,000 troops in Cambodia armed with weapons from both Communist China and Russia. 
If  Senator Turnbull  wants to join with the Labor Party on this matter and say that we should declare war, then he, too, must accept the responsibility with those people who say that this is the solution to the problem of whether Burchett gets a passport. I say to them that on the question of Vietnam we support the attitude of the Government of this country. 
I hope that you will support our amendment tonight. We will accept support from wherever we can get it. However the salient point is that what Australia is doing in Vietnam today- 
Is, in the opinion of  Senator Cavanagh,  disgraceful. He in this country, free as it is, is entitled to that opinion and I am entitled to my opinion, and I do not think that it is disgraceful. If I thought it was disgraceful I would not stand in this chamber, as he did as a propaganda measure, and read the names of men who, mostly voluntarily, gave their services to this country and died in Vietnam. If I thought it was shameful I would have adopted a different method of propaganda from that to which he was prepared to descend. 
We cannot spend on Vietnam the whole of the time allotted to us. I have not yet adverted to an important issue contained in the amendment proposed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
We will see how you vote and how I vote before we decide who agrees with the Government. We will leave it at that at this stage. You may yet get sufficient time, despite the long adjournment that we have had and the numbers on your side, to come up with an amendment. If you do, let us hear it on the floor of the Senate. On the question of Commonwealth and State relations, to which I now propose to address myself, let me say this: Never before in the history of this country has there been such a division amongst its people as there is on this matter at this time. I am amazed by some of the economic experts of the Government and at the proposals that have been put forward to solve the very real problems which face us. I am convinced that the national Parliament should control the economy of the nation. The States, sovereign though they may be, are sensible enough to realise that there cannot be different economies for each State with different levels of taxation or different taxation systems if we are to maintain a stable economy. But that is no justification for what is taking place today. 
The Federal Government controls the economy of this country. It has accepted this responsibility but the only solution it can find for the recurring periods when the Government says that the economy is hot - that is the word used by the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  - is to lift interest rates to deter spending. When interest rates are raised from 5% to 6% and there are still recurring situations which are dangerously inflationary, one might think that that increase in interest rates was not very successful. But when those rates are raised from 6% to 64% and then again from  6i%  to 7i%, with inflation still recurring, is it not time to think that perhaps the cure is not doing what it was suggested it would do and that the economy is not assisted by persistent and consistent increases in interest rates? The Government has come forward once more and said: 'We must improve the situation, because it is getting inflationary. We will increase interest rates again by i% to deter spending as an inflation control measure'. But the Government increases interest rates on government bodies and everybody else. This illustrates the fallacy of the economics put forward by  Senator Webster  recently when he produced the raw figures showing total Commonwealth income from taxation. From memory, he said that Commonwealth grants to the States in 1960 amounted to 23.4% of revenue and in 1969 to 23.9%. In the meantime the Government has allowed interest rates to rise with the result that State indebtedness to the Commonwealth is much greater than previously. That is only one factor. I suggest to  Senator Webster  that he should go away with his little percentage table and have a look at it in terms of actual money. If one were speaking of 50% going each way, perhaps the quoting of percentages would be a very valid argument. But if we revert to simple terms so that everybody, including myself, can understand and say that out of $100  Senator Webster  received $23.9 and I received $76.1, I would much rather have my share because if the total went up to $300  Senator Webster  would get 3 times $23.9 and I would get 3 times $76.1. In an era of rising prices I would be in a far better position than would  Senator Webster.  That is a matter of simple economics. If it is too simple for  Senator Greenwood,  who is trying to interject, then he may live in his world of make believe high finance. But that is what it gets down to and that is what the States are complaining about. 
It is as simple as that. It is a very complicated matter for those who try to persuade one from an academic standpoint. If the honourable senator looks at the figures he will find that they are not as complicated as they seem. If they seem complicated to him, then I suggest that he should discuss the matter with the Premier of the State that he represents and ask him why his State has been reduced to implementing a tax which the former Treasurer,  Mr McMahon,  approved - the turnover tax, which  Senator Webster  and I know is the most inflationary form of taxation that could possibly be conceived. That has been confirmed by no less a person that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  who only 3 weeks ago said on television that the Government had to stop this tax on wages because it was inflationary. Wages are paid out at each stage of production. But what does the turnover tax do in terms of modern manufacturing methods? Does the Prime Minister, living in Canberra, think that goods are handled only once in the manufacturing stages? Does he not realise that in the manufacture of a motor car, the turnover tax is imposed every time someone handles each component such as the rubber and the paint? 
 Vote for the amendment and you will express your disagreement with the Government The fallacy of the turnover tax is highlighted when one refers to experts and not to simple people like myself who give a simple definition not only to the people here but also to the great number of Australians who happen to be listening and can well understand. We should go back to the words of  Mr McMahon,  the former Treasurer. He is not as guilty as the present Treasurer.  Mr McMahon  said this: 
This  form of tax  is acceptable to the Commonwealth if levied by the States, providing it remains small. 
The present Federal Treasurer said quite recently that it should be increased 10 times. That is his suggestion to the States. 
Yes. He said that at every stage of production this iniquitous tax should be increased. Such an increase would be expressed in the price of the goods and would result in inflation. In the main it would be paid by the family man. 1 warn the Government that in the past there have been people who have thought that shady measures such as the turnover tax - a tax that perhaps would be applicable to the gambling industry - will not work if they apply pressure to ordinary forms of production. 1 conclude with these remarks: This sort of tax hurts the great majority of people in Australia - the families. The Government should have more regard for the family man. This will be the important issue in the 1970s. Where do we stand? Do we support the idea that the family is the basis of a nation or do we support a permissive society that disregards the family and allows those things which have destroyed great civilisations? I hope that the obvious objections of the Opposition and of my Party to the Government's proposals contained in the Speech of the Governor-General will be supported and that the Senate will, by a majority vote, support the amendment moved by  Senator McManus. 
I think we should deal with the reasons for raising this matter of urgency and the extent of the urgency. I do not see a great deal of value in pursuing the history of Aboriginals in Australia. I think honourable senators on both sides of the chamber would generally agree that in our history we have gone through some very distinct periods. To recount that  200  years ago at the beginning of our history certain excesses took place may make us feel ashamed, but  1  remind honourable senators of much more modern times in which occurred much more shameful circumstances, not involving Australian Aboriginals. I refer honourable senators to Hansard reports of the House of Commons of only  100  years ago. At that time legislation was passed by the House of Commons to protect  6  and  7-year-olds  working in the mines and the spinning mills of England in circumstances and conditions that Australian Aboriginals would have considered to be terrible. 
I do not see the value in going into history to create a case with all the goodies on one side and all the baddies on the other side. The last generation or two of Australians have realised that the Aboriginals were becoming a vanishing race and that we should do more to protect them. A rather general attitude developed, just as it did to the emancipation of young people in the developing commercial world. One hundred years ago often the parents of the children employed in mines and spinning mills argued that legislation could not prevent the employment of children because if their employment was prohibited their families would be short of sufficient finance to sustain themselves. I do not think a debate of this nature is well served by going back to the days when Aboriginals were slaughtered and by implying that perhaps the responsibility for that lies all on one side of politics or another. 
J do not suggest that that was the intention of  Senator Cant  or  Senator Keeffe.  When the slaughter of our Aboriginals was taking place many women were being brought out here from England under atrocious conditions. Conditions on ships were almost as bad as those obtaining on the slave ships carrying slaves from Africa to North America. But that is all in the past. The treatment of those women when they arrived in this country was almost as bad as anything done to the Aboriginals. To evaluate those circumstances it is necessary to turn everything back to those times. 
I believe that all Australians today, irrespective of their political philosophies, are trying to do more for our Aboriginals and have a greater social conscience towards them. I think it is completely wrong when speaking of the excesses of the past to assert, for instance, that only wealthy squatters were responsible for the degradation and prostitution of Aboriginal women, lt is probable that the responsibility lay more with people with whom as a trade unionist I would have had a greater affinity. I refer to the people who had to work in Western Australia and, unlike the squatters, were not sufficiently wealthy to have their wives and families with them. I think they contributed greatly to the degradation of the Aboriginal women at that time. But that is all in the past. 
I believe that today we have gone beyond the intentions of the people who first became aware of the Aboriginal problem. Our generation was not the first to take to heart the problems of Aboriginals. In retrospect it can be seen how unfortunate, because of undue enthusiasm and too great a haste, were the first attempts to find a solution to the problem of Aboriginals by developing a system of handouts. I think we would all agree today that that method did not fulfil the excellent intentions of the people who wanted to help the Aboriginals. In many instances the opposite effect was achieved. 
We have come to realise that there was a tendency merely to hand to people who were untrained in our way of life an obligation to be completely assimilated. We could ask why the assimilation should be all one way. Surely the Aboriginals would wish to retain some aspects of their own code and culture. I think  Senator Cormack  put a rather extreme point. It is true that many Aboriginals in an endeavour to obtain the things with which they felt more comfortable favoured the idea of reservations. We have moved beyond all that and now for the first time we are tackling the problem in the proper manner. 
When the referendum was conducted in  1967  I was one of the people who felt that the Commonwealth would have made a quicker beginning than it did. However, on more mature reflection I have decided that if Aboriginals were to be headed in the correct and wise direction no great advantage was to be gained by undue haste.  Senator Keeffe  referred to developments over  200  years. Surely we cannot expect to solve all the problems in  2, 5  or even  10  years. To attempt to do so would only aggravate those problems. A long range programme is necessary. 
Although the Government seemed a little tardy in beginning I must pay it the compliment that when it began to operate it seemed to be moving along the right lines. It endeavoured to establish amongst the Aboriginals a sense of responsibility and participation. It endeavoured to involve as many responsible Aboriginals as possible - and, in considering the difficulties, 1 believe that the responsible people in the Aboriginal community must have been absolute geniuses to emerge at all from the pack in the manner in which they did, in view of the opportunities available to them. I have a tremendous admiration for some of the leading Aboriginals who, in spite of the conditions they had to contend with, are now looked up to in our society. These people have been involved in the programme as much as possible. I think it is unfair to them to suggest that they are in any way silenced or divided from their own people. I do not support the suggestion that giving them responsibilities as committee members is turning them into an entity separate from the rest of the Aboriginal people. I do not think they are likely to be affected in that way. They may not be proceeding with the haste that some of us think is required to solve the Aboriginal problem, but perhaps they are proceeding with wisdom and a realisation of the immensity of the psychological problems that have to be overcome. 
Some anomalies may have been correctly stated by  Senator Keeffe  and  Senator Georges,  but such anomalies occur in every walk of life in our community today. It cannot be suggested that the whole thing is wrong, that it is failing or has to be scrapped because we can point to some anomaly where perhaps a public servant has exhibited over-caution. I have been aware of many problems that have developed because public servants have not exercised enough caution. I could recount just as many of those incidents as there are anomalies which could be cited by members of the Australian Labor Party. 
I am prepared to accept that all honourable senators who have spoken to this motion are sincere in their intent, but I do not know that they are completely wise. I do not think the Government can be charged with wanting to smash all Aboriginal organisations. The evidence adduced to substantiate a charge such as that has been very flimsy. In fact the evidence which was adduced in this debate could have supported the view that the Government had the opposite intention. Even if it can be shown that a complete mistake had been made or that there had been an error of judgment, that would not necessarily prove that the Government, which is composed of Australian people and which is elected by Australians, is out to smash the Aboriginal organisation. I can see nothing to substantiate that proposition. 
I feel that the Government is trying sincerely to tackle the Aboriginal problem. Although I, as one interested in reform and in trying to restore some measure of justice to the Aboriginal people of this country, to give them opportunities to share in the affluence of our society, might differ to some extent with the methods that have been adopted by the Government, I would never go so far as to say that its intentions were not sincere. I do not think that suggestion comes within the general Australian philosophy. I admit that I am puzzled to know precisely what is right and good as a solution to this problem. Perhaps as an example I could refer to a situation in Darwin, a place which I visited and to which  Senator Georges  has been recently. I am one of those who approve of the idea that we must extend to the Aboriginals as much responsibility for themselves as is humanly possible if they are ultimately to develop and become assimilated in the general community. As a result of the circumstances and conditions in which I have seen young Aboriginal children in a hotel bar in Darwin I could very well be disposed to make a retrogressive step. 
Would the answer to the problem of those Aboriginal children be found in the introduction of prohibition for all Aboriginals, irrespective of whether it can be shown that they have not the tolerance to alcohol that some other people more used to drinking would have? Would it be right to suggest that it would be a progressive step to save the young girls whom I saw in the hotel bar if we were to reimpose on Aboriginals the restrictions that applied for many years? This is a classic example to show that one's enthusiasm to protect an individual might lead one to make a mistake and retard progress.I suppose we would have to admit that in anything we do in the interests  of  progress for any people anywhere we will find that some people will fall by the wayside. We can point to many people in our community who do not quite make the grade. In some cases it is due to alcoholism or illnesses of that kind. But because of those individuals should we alter our whole system? We know that we cannot do so. Yet most of the attacks on the Government over the question of Aboriginals have been attacks of this nature. The incidents which have been mentioned are, to a degree, isolated. 
The honourable senator says that they are not isolated incidents, but he has mentioned about 3 or 4 incidents which must be considered against the whole history of Australia and the tremendous magnitude of the Aboriginal problem in a country so widely dispersed as Australia. I suggest that they are isolated incidents of the type that we must expect in any great reform programme if we are to progress. It is for these reasons that we do not propose to support the motion. We feel there are anomalies and that there is much to do, but we are impressed with the sincerity of the Government, if not with its speed, and the manner in which it is trying to get to the heart of the problem. We do not support the motion. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Keeffe's)  be agreed to. 
We support this measure which endeavours to bring into line with the general philosophy of the Government those pensioners who become separated, though married, and virtually have to live as single pensioners. 1 remind honourable senators that single pensioners receive a rate in excess of that received by a pensioner couple. As  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin suggested in her second reading speech the proposal carries out, in part in my view, the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the election campaign that the Government would pay pensions at the standard rate instead of at the married rate to aged couples who, by reason of failing health, lose the economies of living together. An example of that was given. 
However, when we examine the Bill we find that it does not go quite that far and that there is a distinct limitation. That limitation is contained in clause 3 (c) (b) where the words the inability is likely to continue indefinitely' appear. This means that if a pensioner couple are separated by one or other being in a nursing home or a hospital for a period of some weeks, and medical opinion is that the separation is not unlikely to continue indefinitely, they will be forced to carry the burden of living apart for that period. Very often medical opinion is divided in assessing questions of this nature. I know that the Bill provides that where the Director-General is satisfied the increased payment will be made, but I am presuming that he will look to the medical profession for assistance in satis fying himself whether the illness is likely to continue indefinitely. Because doctors are very conscientious and very careful in making these estimations, a person could well be sick for 6 or 12 months before the medical opinion would be that the separation would be likely to continue indefinitely. 
We feel that some more specific period should be given. We appreciate that if the separation was for a week or a fortnight it probably would be impracticable to carry out the general philosophy that is contained in the Prime Minister's election statement and in the Bill itself, but we would like further information as to the precise grounds on which the Director-General will be satisfied - whether it will be medical opinion or whether a time factor will come into it. We appreciate that the words "the inability is likely to continue indefinitely' - protects the pensioner. Thank goodness. If a mistake is made and a pensioner is paid the increased pension and the inability does not continue indefinitely, he may be called upon to make a refund. But in view of the words to which I have referred. [ presume that once a decision is made by the Director-Genera) that decision is binding and the increased pension will be paid until such time at least as the separation ends. This is a feature of the Bill which we believe does not carry out the Government's philosophy. 
We contest also the philosophy contained in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  that married people should be penalised in relation to pension because it is claimed that by living together their needs are not as great as those of a single pensioner. Many unmarried pensioners of either the same sex or of different sex live together. Why should married pensioners be penalised? This policy is based on the philosophy that nobody should receive a pension that gives him one little bit above the minimum necessary to sustain him at a specific standard. 
Of course, this philosophy is impossible to carry out because it is still left to the people themselves - sisters, cousins, aunts, uncles or anybody else - to go and live together and obtain single pensioner rates. On the other hand, married people have paid their taxes throughout the whole of their lifetime and have received poor allowances in terms of child endowment and taxation deductions for keeping a wife and rearing a family, which contributes so much to our community. In their old age pensions should be theirs by right in order to give them the same standard of living as single people. If 2 people are married and remain happily married for 50 or 60 years they should not be denied the right that is available to other people, namely, to live together and therefore have a slightly higher standard of living by being paid the rate of pension that is paid to single people. 
We do not accept the Government's philosophy. We believe that it is based on wrong premises. The premises are that the pensions that are paid to people in our community should be the minimum that is capable of sustaining life and that if people happen to be married and can lift their standard slightly by living together they should be penalised whilst other pensioners have the opportunity to do precisely the same thing and to live above the standard that is imposed upon the married couple. We believe that this all boils down to the use of a wrong premise in the beginning, namely, that no pension should be paid which can possibly give anybody a standard slightly above the absolute minimum that the community can provide. 
We believe that the very virtue of marriage itself and of rearing a family in this community should give the married couple the right to the advantage derived from their standard being increased slightly because their rate of pension is the same as that of single people and they pool their resources as they have done all their lives in rearing their family. That is our philosophy on this question. We are not suggesting in any way that the pension for single people should be reduced. As I have pointed out, the whole philosophy is based on it being the minimum that should be paid to anybody. We would not mind the minimum being paid to a married couple on an individual basis. We do not see why the minimum should be reduced because people happen to be married. But that is the situation that applies at the moment. 
I should like to have from the Minister clarification of the matter which I have raised and which I consider to be a weakness in the legislation. According to the definition of eligibility, the illness or separation must be adjudged by the DirectorGeneral as being likely to continue indefinitely. I believe that great difficulties will be encountered in making this judgment unless some clarification is given. If it is left absolutely and solely to medical opinion, it is a known fact that even in the case of an elderly person having a broken hip it can be weeks or months before a doctor is able to diagnose whether the hip is actually fractured if it is a compacted fracture. It would be difficult to estimate the time an elderly person would take to recover from an injury such as that. A doctor could well think that in 12 months the person would be back on his feet again and would not need to stay in a nursing home; but at the end of 12 months the doctor may find that the hip will never heal and that the person will have to be a nursing home inmate for the rest of his life. 
Is any provision made for the payment of the pension to be made retrospective where an opinion has been given to the Director-General who has acted on it and has not paid the pension at the increased rate to the separated couple, and after the lapse of a considerable period of time it is proved that what was thought to be not a definite separation has become a definite one? We will vote for both of these measures. They set out to do the same thing for different sections of our community. We are in favour of them, but we have the doubts that we have expressed in relation to them carrying out the desired objective. 
We have explained our point of view on this measure and it is my intention to deal largely with the amendment which has been proposed by  Senator McClelland  on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. Let me say at the outset that I believe that the criticism of the Government's attitude on this matter contained in his amendment is valid, as far as it goes. We do not feel that the amendment spells out explicitly enough precisely where the Government has failed, and for that reason I move the following amendment to  Senator McClelland's  proposed amendment: 
At end of  Senator McClelland's  proposed amendment add ' , caused by the failure of the Government to take necessary and timely action in recent years to: 
discourage excessive wheat plantings; 
provide adequate storage to meet the resulting crisis; and 
diversify market outlets. 
And the Senate is further of the opinion that the Government has denied to the Parliament the opportunity to make a proper assessment of the economic condition of the wheat industry by its persistent refusal to disclose the price conditions of sales contracts'. 

 Senator O'Byrne, in an attack on  Senator McManus,  said that all we proposed to do was to prevent the sale of wheat to Red China. I wonder what  Senator O'Byrne's  attitude would be if an honourable senator moved in the Senate right now that we conclude an agreement to sell a large quantity of our surplus wheat to Rhodesia or South Africa. Would he put this on a political plane completely without any justification for his attitude? Those who analyse this situation, and particularly the stand of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on it, must realise that our attitude towards sales of wheat to Red China has nothing to do with the political attitude of Red China in itself. All of the arguments we have put forward over the years in relation to this matter have been an endeavour to protect the Australian wheat industry against the excesses in which it was being persuaded to indulge by the false market that was being created by selling wheat to Red China at prices below those at which we had been selling to our recognised markets such as India. 
We believe also that the refusal to disclose the price at which the wheat was being sold to Red China besmirched the name of this country throughout the world and raised serious doubts as to whether we were meeting our international commitments in relation to the agreed price for wheat. We further set out to show that there was an over-expansion of the industry brought about by the twin evils of the guaranteed price and the expectation of unlimited markets - the vision splendid created by the Wheat Board which set out to get contracts for our wheat from Red China at prices below those at which it was selling to other countries. 
I am not saying that the guaranteed price in itself is an evil but I do say that the manner in which the guaranteed price operated to increase the production of wheat was an evil. I hope that as a result of the criticisms contained in both proposed amendments, which I hope will be carried, the Government will give a great deal of thought to this matter and will remember that a most admirable circumstance such as a guaranteed price may be in itself very good for an industry but that when it is allowed to develop without any practical commonsense realisation of the effect it is having on the industry it can be disastrous. 
It is true that we would not have our present tremendous surplus of wheat if it were not for the manner in which the guaranteed price policy was applied. The policy attracted into the industry, which obviously was reaching a maximum of production, thousands of new producers at a time when scientific improvements in the industry were tending towards tremendous expansion in production. If no new growers had been attracted into the industry our then existing wheat acreage would have been able to produce a great deal more grain, in spite of droughts, than it had been producing previously. Our criticism of the undue development of the wheat industry in this country to meet the requirements of the market in Red China, in particular, was not based on the political quality of that country. In the very early days of this trade we carried a resolution at our federal conference to the effect that where it could be shown that a country such as Red China was suffering from a famine or anything of that nature and had a tremendous need for our wheat, every opportunity should be taken to see that the requirements and needs of that country were met. 
We could see, and I think anyone could see, what that market was doing, or ultimately would do, to the Australian wheat industry if it were allowed to continue unchecked and if the Wheat Board continued to give precedence and advantage to it, particularly in terms of price and payment. We could see that the Australian wheat industry would face a crisis. If we could see it, we suggest that the Government should have been able to see it. We think that the quotas which are now being imposed on people who have been in the industry for years and on people, large companies in some cases, who are recent additions to the industry would not have been as necessary as they now are had the Government been a little more foreseeing in relation to this matter. 
The &gt;first clause of our proposed amendment criticises the Government for not having discouraged excessive wheat plantings. Our second ground of criticism is that, having failed to discourage excessive wheat plantings, the Government took no steps to provide adequate storage for the surplus wheat that inevitably would be on hand. 
 If you suggest that adequate steps have been taken to provide storage for our surplus wheat, why then are the mice running all over Victoria, particularly in the Wimmera? They have been attracted by the amateurish attempts at storage by individual farmers who have no proper place in which to put their wheat. We suggest also that the Government should have attempted to diversify our markets to a greater extent than it has. 
I turn now to the final paragraph of our amendment. I am sure that members of the Labor Party will agree with us on this because of their previous attitude. At one time they supported our repeated requests to the Government for information to be given to the Parliament regarding the price conditions of sales contracts. The Labor Party put forward the suggestion that if the Government would not make available the information to which the Parliament was entitled, the  Chairman  of the Australian Wheat Board should be brought before the bar of the Senate and compelled to give the information. For that reason alone I am certain that the Labor Party will support our criticism of the Government on that aspect. What has been the Government's excuses for not producing to the Parliament of Australia the prices at which it has been prepared to negotiate wheat sales to Red China? It told the Parliament that this was a matter for the Australian Wheat Board and that the Wheat Board could not disclose the price to us because that would endanger its capacity to negotiate and any advantages in price negotiations it may have over other countries supplying wheat. 
But what are the facts? The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen),  as a representative of the Government and people of this country, goes abroad and negotiates with the wheat interests of the world the minimum prices at which wheat of certain qualities will be sold. That is a purely political action on the part of the  Deputy  Prime Minister. He does not have to obtain the permission of the Wheat Board or anyone else. Then he comes back to this country- 
They may be. We are not saying that they are not. But who is the boss? Who negotiates on behalf of the Government? Who puts the signature on the document that says: "This is Australia's guarantee'? Do honourable senators opposite say that the Wheat Board says to the  Deputy  Prime Minister that the price shall be so and so? Of course the  Deputy  Prime Minister does not say that the price shall be so and so. This is an agreement reached by all the countries that append their signatures to it. The  Deputy  Prime Minister signs on behalf of Australia. Then this Parliament is asked to believe that he does not know at what price the wheat is being sold. If he knows we are entitled to know. Nobody can gainsay that, whether he is on the Government side or the Opposition side of this chamber. If the  Deputy  Prime Minister is entitled to know the price at which a product for which the market is guaranteed by the Government is to be sold abroad, then the Parliament is entitled to know. I have no criticism of the Wheat Board on this question. 'Its function is to sell the wheat, and it does sell the wheat. 
Let me ask  Senator Prowse  this question: Whose money is it that is now being lent to meet the crisis situation that has developed in the industry? Have not the taxpayers of this country, represented by this Parliament, some rights? Are they to be levied in terms of their money paid in taxes? We told the Government that if a crisis developed in this industry because some of the countries that were given favourable terms of payment for their purchases welshed on those terms the Australian taxpayers would be the people who would have to pay. Of course they would. The Government knows that and the Opposition knows that. 
The most scandalous aspect of the attitude of the Government on this matter is not that we now have a crisis - anybody can make mistakes - but the deliberate prevention of the Parliament and people of Australia from being acquainted with the facts of what has developed in this industry. It represents a scandalous neglect of governmental duty and responsibility to the Parliament and people of Australia. We say that whilst  Senator McClelland's  amendment may go some little distance along the way it is inadequate in expressing the criticism of the Government that should be expressed by the Parliament on behalf of the people of Australia. I believe that the amendment I have moved should be supported by all honourable senators. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Is the amendment moved by  Senator Little  seconded? 
In a discussion on an urgency motion I think, first of all, it is essential that one gets down to the issues involved in the motion itself and forgets the heavily weighted political overtones that are being introduced into the subject and are quite misleading all along the way.  Senator Drury  himself repeated one of those diversions which have arisen throughout the debate when he said that conscripts coming back from Vietnam were denied the opportunity to obtain a war service home. That suggestion, of course, was established by the mover of the resolution. The fact is that there are very few conscripts in Vietnam in comparison to enlisted men who are volunteers. Those who are conscripts are usually of an age at which they are not likely- 
If the honourable senator listens he will learn something because it is obvious that he is on the wrong track. We are not discussing that question. This is the type of diversion I am trying to draw to your attention. You defeat your own issue by the diversion because that is not the question being discussed. 
To remind you not to get off it. lt is essential because you are completely off it, you see. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! There is too much interruption. 
The fact is that the great majority of the young conscripts who do go to Vietnam - and they do not constitute a majority of the servicemen serving there at all - are in an age group in which they are not most likely to be applicants for war service homes. 
There are some, but the people we are really discussing are those who make application for war service homes in general. Where they served and under what circumstances they served this country does not matter. Providing they served abroad they are entitled to be applicants for war service homes and they should all be treated equally. In a discussion such as this arguments about conscripts, nonconscripts, the Vietnam war or any other war should not be introduced. They provide political overtones which introduce disputation into a subject on which all honourable senators should be unanimous. If honourable senators stop and leave their invective out of the debate for a moment we will probably get more unity than we usually get in this place. 
The Minister has admitted that it will be necessary to defer applications temporarily. The Australian Democratic Labor Party is inclined to ask why. But we realise that if there is blame to lay we should not lay the whole of the blame on the Government because everybody had an opportunity when the Budget was being discussed to suggest that the estimates for this particular item were likely to be short of what would be required. If there is a deficiency now the Government may have a primary responsibility but the Opposition which sought to criticise the Budget but not to have it withdrawn, as we suggested, also has a responsibility. Even the Democratic Labor Party which suggested that the Budget should be withdrawn and redrafted did not mention this specific question. Therefore we can claim no credit or avoid no responsibility because we too allowed the situation to develop and applications now exceed the amount of money available. This means that all honourable senators have some measure of responsibility. Honourable senators should not be just merely criticising the Government. We should be seeing what is the best way out of the situation. We are interested in the interests of all exservicemen who are eligible to make application. The Democratic Labor Party cannot see why a supplementary appropriation should not be brought down to bridge this gap. That is the main point that we would like to make to the Minister. Would this not be preferable to deferring some applications? Surely all honourable senators agree that all servicemen who are eligible should be completely equal when they make application for a loan of this character. Do not let us get carried away by what has happened in the past or try to rest on the grand record of having provided 304,000 homes. This is of no interest to the serviceman who, at the moment, has submitted his application. He draws no satisfaction from the fact that in the past 304,000 homes have been purchased with the assistance of the War Service Homes Act. For the serviceman who has just returned, or who has waited for some considerable time and is now in a position to purchase a home, statements of that character are purely sentimental, historical records. He wants to take advantage of a very good scheme. It is a good scheme not only in the interests of the serviceman, as this debate seems to suggest. Let us remember that this scheme must have been of tremendous value to this nation. Not only the families who were assisted to purchase the 304,000 homes at favorable interest rates have gained advantage out of this scheme; the nation itself has been tremendously enriched by the fact that this has been a sensible scheme to assist the serviceman to become a home owner. 
The DLP thinks that these schemes should be far broader and, indeed, that there should be much more assistance given to all families to become home owners in their own rights. We of the DLP cannot, for the life of us, understand the reasons why the cost of finance for home building today is now what it is purported to be. The Government seems to feel that this waiting period may be excused by saying that it is only for some. It should not be for any. If it is only for some, then surely those who have their applications in first, whether they want to buy a home already erected or to build a new home, should be the ones to get first consideration. The line that is drawn seems to be to the disadvantage of the ones who are buying a home which is already erected. There must be an underlying reason for this. Is it the general reason that the economy must be quietened down, that it is getting hot and inflationary? I have no great knowledge of economics but I would discuss this subject with anybody. 
The provision of credit to buy a home already erected is certainly not as inflationary in tendency as is the provision of loan moneys to purchase or to build a new home which drags on materials that may be in short supply. The purchase of a home that is already erected, whatever the market price, can have no relationship to any inflationary tendency in the community. Therefore, if only those who are seeking to buy homes that are already erected are being denied an immediate loan and have to suffer this waiting period, what is wrong with presenting a supplementary appropriation so that the waiting period can be cut out? 
We are told that the waiting period is not lengthy; it is only 8 weeks. For a returned serviceman who perhaps has been separated from his family for some time and who wants to get into his own home instead of living with in-laws, 8 weeks can seem like half a century. It is all very well for us to sit in this House and say that it is only 8 weeks, but 8 weeks can be a long lime if you are living in circumstances which are not conducive to good relationships within your own family. They are told that they have to wait. For what reason? They have to wait because none of us in this House or in another place saw the possibilities, when the Budget was being discussed, of the number of applications exceeding the amount of money that was available. Let us all accept our share of the responsibility. I agree that the Government perhaps has more responsibility than has anyone else, but what we should be doing now is asking ourselves: 'What is the best way out of it? Is there a way out of it?' Of course there is. A supplementary appropriation could be brought down. If this could not or would not be done by the Government, a Treasurer's advance could be made to the Department to help it over the situation which at present involves a wait of 8 weeks. 
 That is right. What numbers my Party has in the Senate would certainly support such a proposal to ensure that every ex-serviceman who submitted an application would be treated on the same basis as would his fellow ex-servicemen. Surely that is the measuring stick, not the type of home that the ex-serviceman wants to buy. ls he eligible? If he is eligible he should have equal rights. If there is a failure or a breakdown somewhere and one applicant must be considered before another, surely those who have submitted the earliest applications should be considered first. That is the policy that our society usually adopts in these things. If you want to see a football match the first people in the queue get the tickets that are available and those on the end of the line have to take their chances. Apparently, however, a line is drawn on grounds of whether you want to build a new home or buy one that is already erected. We cannot see the sense in this and we would like the Government io consider the reasons why the necessary finance is not available at the present time. 
Is it of tremendous importance that the finance cannot be made available? Tell us if it is a matter of the economy of the nation being likely to suffer or the present inflationary trend being likely to rise sharply. Do not tell us the stories that we already know so well about the interest rate being so much lower phan that which is charged everywhere else. I could be critical of the Government and say that it controls the economy, as I agree that it should. If it persists in allowing the general interest rate to rise much higher it will be able to tell us that ex-servicemen who have received war service home loans are getting rates of interest that are only one-third of what are being charged elsewhere instead of only one-half. At some stage the Government must come to a realisation that merely increasing interest rates does not solve the problem of inflation, not one iota. Instead it only adds to costs in the community generally and increases the rate of inflation. 
There can be no other reason than the Government's present obsession with the control of inflation for its refusal to bring down a supplementary appropriation thereby allowing ex-servicemen 'to have ti: clr homes in accordance with the proVisions of the Act. I believe that the Government should give very serious consideration to introducing a supplementary appropriation. Let it do so, let us pass it and let the ex-serviceman get his home without being subjected to a waiting period. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this measure. I am very pleased that  Senator Laucke  outlined some of the principles of Meals on Wheels because we should not get bogged down in some of our old thinking and make a comparison of this idea with some of the old charitable ideas and the poor houses and like institutions of the past. I think  Senator Mulvihill  in suggesting that this was a fragmentary idea was speaking of the needs of a community today which are decidedly different from those of earlier communities, because by medical knowledge and other knowledge human life is being preserved much longer and with this is coming a whole crop of quite new and distinctive problems. It is in an endeavour to meet these new problems that these sorts of ideas have been sponsored. They will not all be 100% successful but the Meals on Wheels organisation has made a considerable impact on what was a big and growing problem amongst aged people in the community. There is here a physical necessity and a mental need at the same time. Meals on Wheels contributes to the satisfaction of both. It is hard for us in the vigour of our years to appreciate at the moment that at some time before our own lives conclude we will pass through a phase of life when, mentally, we will not respond to the same stimuli to which we respond today. 
I have known elderly people go down the street to do their shopping. They have done this all their lives. They have successfully reared families. Then they get to a stage in life when they go down the street but then forget what they went there for. They go home loaded with stuff which is of no great nutritional value at all. When it comes to preparing meals they are fighting desperately against this loss of mental capacity which comes with advanced years which most people in bygone ages and generations probably would never have reached. Meals on Wheels assists in this problem. It assures that a good nutritious meal is available at reasonable cost to people who may be going without a meal, not because they cannot afford one in some instances- 
That is right. The preparing of the meals, with all the purchasing of the proper ingredients, gets a little beyond their mental capacity. They have other days when they can cope quite well. Of course, this organisation fulfils a tremendous need particularly for widowers who have never prepared meals for themselves. They lose their wives very late in life and suddenly they have to try to live on their own resources. They have no skill and no capacity for cooking a nutritious meal. They are very much inclined to live on things which are easy to prepare but which are not giving them the value for the money they spend or the nutritional value necessary to maintain their lives. Their mental powers which are fading in any case and which are being eroded by time itself, become still further weakened by a diet which is not sufficient to maintain them as it should. Do not let us confuse this with the old situation of charitable handouts to the poor. There is much more involved in this. 
I believe an intelligent step is being taken by voluntary organisations which are entitled to the encouragement of local governments, State governments, and now the Federal Government which has seen fit to enter the field and offer not a bounty but an encouragement. That is how I look upon this. It is an encouragement to organisations which already exist. I am sure that the problem outlined by  Senator Mulvihill  is a real problem. In the very new suburbs where most of the people are very young there must be pockets where elderly people are not receiving quite the same attention as in those suburbs where the average age is much higher and the need has become more obvious to the community, this has stimulated the formation of organisations necessary to give .this sort of care. But in their turn those newer suburbs will realise, as the magnitude of their own problems grow, the necessity for this. I believe that this sort of encouragement now must surely do more to promote further society to form and councils to take up the idea which has been so successfully sponsored and carried out by those who have pioneered the idea. The Democratic Labor Party feels that this, as a beginning, is a very worthwhile subject. It compliments the Government and fully supports the measure which it hopes will have a speedy passage through the House. 
The Senate now has before it 3 distinct propositions in relation to whether South Australia is to receive extra water supplies. That is how the situation is viewed by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The first proposition is contained in legislation introduced by the Government to provide water to South Australia in accordance with the recommendation of the River Murray Commission. If the Senate passes that legislation South Australia will receive some extra water, but perhaps not in the circumstances desired by some honourable senators who have spoken in this debate tonight. If the Senate votes against that proposition the immediate reaction will be that South Australia will not receive any extra water at all. 
The third proposition is contained in an amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party and I will deal with that in detail at a later stage of my remarks. I believe that the proposed amendment is tantamount to defeating the Government's Bill and if it were carried it would mean that the people of South Australia would get no extra water. We of the DLP are not so interested in the historical procession of events preceding this legislation. We do not think that in 1970 it is important that somebody of a particular political colour back in 1962, in a wave and burst of enthusiasm, thought that the first report of the River Murray Commission was an excellent one. I am reminded of the enthusiasm exhibited by some Ministers for the purchase of Fill aircraft. They are now under great attack by the Opposition because they expressed that enthusiasm, with which the Opposition today does not agree. 
I can understand that back in 1963 Ministers may have expressed great enthusiasm for a dam at Chowilla but now may have had a complete change of mind, lt might help them to examine subsequent recommendations made as a result of inquiries conducted by the River Murray Commission. We have tremendous sympathy for the people of South Australia because of the dryness of that State and its requirements for water. We believe that the River Murray Commission has deeply considered the matter. A study of the history of the formation of the Commission shows that at that time South Australia faced very serious water shortages. The great source of water for South Australia - the River Murray - flows between New South Wales and Victoria on its way to South Australia. If New South Wales and Victoria were allowed without inhibition to draw upon the reserves of the River Murray before it gets to South Australia it is quite obvious that South Australia would not be on the receiving end of water supplies but of a major catastrophe. If the 2 major States of Victoria and New South Wales were able to do as they wished in drawing from the River Murray as it passes through their territories, long before it gets to South Australia, that would be the situation. As is rather rare sometimes there was co-operation between the States and the River Murray Commission was formed. The Commonwealth had an interest in it as did the 3 States concerned. There have been no attacks on that Commission throughout the whole of the debate on this question. J can therefore take it, perhaps, that all honourable senators agree that this was a successful solution to the problem of ultimately getting water to the dry State of South Australia, and the most that some senators will say at this stage is that the Commission has on this occasion made a mistake in reviewing an original report it made, making further investigations and coming down with a subsequent report which completely denied its previous decisions and suggested that a different solution should be found to the problems. That is the only criticism that one can read into any of the remarks that have been made in this chamber about the River Murray Commission. 
I am nol speaking in this matter as a true Victorian at all. if the honourable senator suggests that the River Murray Commission has in any way acted dishonourably, or if he is suggesting that it has tried to put the interests of other States before those of South Australia, he has not said so in the debates on this question up to date. I do not speak here tonight as a senator from Victoria but as an Australian trying to look at this from the point of view of how we can gel the best, particularly for South Australia which possibly needs water and the guarantee of water more than does any other State. In my opinion it would be very wrong for this chamber as a State House to interfere in a matter to take away from those 3 States their rights to meet together and to formulate a decision on this, but that is precisely what the amendment seeks to do. If carried in this chamber - a House purporting to represent the States - it would take away from the States their rights and place their rights almost under the sole authority of something set up by the Commonwealth. 
Certainly the amendment suggests that we negotiate with the States, but what if the States fail to negotiate on the question? From where does South Australia get her water then? That is the very serious question that we must consider here. 1 would have thought that with all that has been said about this question it is obvious that an incentive for the River Murray Commission to re-think ils situation existed when an original estimate of S28m for the construction of Chowilla - and it- was only an estimate al that stage - converted itself into an actual tender inside a period of 4 years. There was another estimate that was much higher but it too was only an estimate. When the Commission got down to cases' 4 years after the original estimate and said: 'How much will it cost?', the best tender was $68m or $40m in excess of the original estimate. I would think that the River Murray Commission, noting that difference in a period of 4 years, would have been remiss in its duties to each of the participating States and to the Commonwealth if it did not have some sort of a look at the matter again irrespective of what decision came out of the second look. But I think it was obliged to do that and 1 do not think that anybody can dismiss that disparity of figures by saying: 'Oh, wages or something increased in that period'. The amount is just too great to be accounted for by the normal increase in costs. Therefore, 1 think the first thing that is established by the facts and evidence before us is that the River Murray Commission did the right thing in having another look at the whole proposition. 
We will come to that. I am going through the whole succession of events. If the honourable senator will be a little patient I will arrive at my final conclusion.  Lt  may not be satisfactory to him but I will express completely and honestly our point of view. I am suggesting to the honourable senator now that he is not dissatisfied because he did not challenge my point that the River Murray Commission was right to have another look at it. Ali he is disagreeing with now is that when it had another look at it and conducted a whole series of more scientific and more detailed examinations it came down with a different answer. That is what the honourable senator challenges, that when it had gone through the whole thing again it made comparisons. 
The honourable senator is saying that it should have looked at other evidence and not the evidence at which it did look. He may be right; I do not know. I am no more an expert on this than he is. We have to take the opinions of those scientists whom we employ to inform us on these questions and 1 am prepared to accept their opinions, i have heard no charges of State rightism against members of the Commission or anyone else. Those charges have not been made even by those who disagree with the ultimate findings of the Commission. I am prepared to accept that the Commission could be wrong but it has honestly come down with an ultimate decision and recommendation that it believes to be in the best interests of all concerned. We would do better to look at it from that point of view rather than to go back and say: 'Well, there was a Labor Government in South Australia when they first agreed to have it looked at again' or: 'There was a Liberal Government in South Australia 8 years ago' or:  'Senator Sir William  Spooner said this, this and this.' There was such enthusiasm that everybody was agreeing with the first report whether they were Labor, Liberal or of any other political complexion. That gives us nothing to contribute to the argument as it stands today. But who knows what  Senator Sir William  Spooner would have had to say about the situation if he was here today or what the former Labor Premier of South Australia will say in 20 years' time, when I hope at least some sort of a dam is built somewhere to give South Australia some water. 
People might change their minds in the interim and I do not think that that is a particularly serious argument. We have established this River Murray Commission. It has worked very well. Now, the suggestion is that we should vote for the amendment which is put forward by the Labor Party as the ultimate solution, at the eleventh hour, to the whole problem. We are to destroy the River Murray Commission without any certainty of putting anything in its place. We have to start right back at the very beginning to get agreement between the States but the Opposition says that this Bill will not be proceeded with until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of a national water conservation and constructing authority. 
 Yes, until the Commonwealth has negotiated with the States for the establishment of such an authority. 
That means, of course, that we have to bring Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania into the national water authority and get them to agree to the establishment of it in conjunction with the 3 States which are already concerned in the River Murray Commission - but in their own right - and we have no word from them or even from Labor senators from those States, as to whether they are prepared to give away the River Murray Commission that means so much to them and to co-operate in replacing it. 
 The honourable senator should wait until I have finished my argument when he may understand it. He is a little too impatient. He wants to get to the winning post before he has left the barrier. If he was a little more patient he could get up with a few facts on this question. I am only half way through the Opposition's amendment at this stage and already it is beginning to show itself as absolute nonsense as a solution to the problem of water for South Australia. It amazes me that any party which contains South Australian members of parliament could have possibly proposed it as a practical solution to get water for South Australia. 
 No, what is wrong is not establishing this authority but establishing it before anything is done to get South Australia water out of the River Murray. That is what is needed at this very stage. Once we have established this national water conservation and constructing authority we have to embrace in it the Snowy Mountains Hydro-electric Authority as well. This would give the Commonwealth more or less an overriding authority in the establishment of this body. 
If the Commonwealth is negotiating with the States for the establishment of such a body the Commonwealth would have an overwhelming voice. I am not suggesting that the Commonwealth would be unreasonable, but it would have an overriding authority if the proposed body embraced the Snowy Mountains Authority. I come then to the duties of the body when it is established. 
 I am trying to explain to the honourable senator his own resolution. The proposal is to have an organisation to carry out stream development and soundly based water storages in the major river basins, including the Murray and the Darling systems. No-one can give a guarantee that this authority, which would be representative of the Commonwealth and the States, would consider that Chowilla or Dartmouth were of immediate importance. I can understand that in a country such as Australia there would be people in some parts of Queensland particularly, at the moment at the height of a drought  -  I know that  Senator Georges  would agree with this - who would probably consider the problems of Queensland to be far more important than whatever happened at Dartmouth or Chowilla. 
 If  Senator Georges,  as a Queensland senator, says that he does not believe that, I will have to accept what he says, but I am certain that other Queensland senators would consider that their responsibility to their own State was paramount. Supposing the Australian Labor Party did have its own foolish way and was able to make a political issue out of the need of South Australian people for water and succeeded in establishing a national authority, this organisation then would be running around looking at all the major rivers and basins to decide where some development should take place. But in this period during which the 3 States concerned were negotiating their way out of the River Murray Commission and into the national authority which was to do all these other things, what would happen? Suppose that of the 3 States at present concerned with the River Murray Commission Victoria decided that its immediate needs had been satisfied and that Dartmouth was not so important as to warrant the expenditure involved. I have understood from a few odd remarks that I have read as coming from the Premier of Victoria that at times he is extremely short of money with which to proceed with many projects in Victoria - not only the dam at Dartmouth. 
It is quite likely that with Victoria's water situation being what it is at the moment, Victoria might decide that it is not very interested in Dartmouth and it could very well spend the money on something else. But at the moment we have the River Murray Commission which is committed to a definite project which, as even the most trenchant critics will admit, will give water to South Australia. Perhaps Dartmouth will give South Australia 1 gallon more or 1 gallon less than Chowilla would provide, but this is speculation based on the advice of experts. The weight of evidence seems to suggest that Dartmouth will be able to guarantee a little more water than Chowilla could provide. Some people suggest that the water from Dartmouth will not be of the proper quality when it reaches South Australia and others say it will be of better quality. But all those arguments fall down alongside the main basic argument which is whether the people of South Australia are to get water from somewhere. That is the question that we are debating here tonight. 1 feel that we have tremendous responsibility in this matter. The Democratic Labor Party does not have a representative from South Australia in the Senate and accordingly we have a tremendous sympathy for those on both sides of the House in regard to different aspects of this question which have been discussed and a tremendous sympathy for those who have fought so hard to get water for their State. We would hate to see this issue reduced to a matter of political expediency and, as suggested, defeat a resolution to build a dam at Dartmouth, a project which would give South Australia some water. Nor do I think that we should vote for an amendment which will throw the whole issue into the melting pot and achieve nothing other than a postponement at the Federal level of something which 3 State governments are at this stage committed to through their representation. 
That brings me to the final point of my argument. It is true that 1 State Government may have to conduct an election to find out what the people of that State think about this question. But should we as a State House in the Commonwealth Parliament, in order to protect the rights of the States, at this stage in the programme intercede and take away from the States the requirement to resolve  the matter  within  their own Stales in their own way? I do not think we should. 1 believe that the resolution that we are debating is a reasonable one if it is agreed that the River Murray Commission is an authority which ought to know what it is doing. In the past it has proved itself to be a very reliable authority which has operated in a very efficient and reliable manner in the interests of all the people in the States which it represents. 
No member of the Labor Party has said that in the course of the debates on this question. On the other hand, I have heard Labor senators praising the River Murray Commission, just as 1 have heard other people praising the wisdom of its decisions. I have heard Labor senators criticise Chowilla but then go on to offer further criticisms when Chowilla was not recommended as the site for the dam. In the course of this criticism .1 have heard no proof that the River Murray Commission has misconducted itself in any way. The Opposition has made the point that, for political reasons or otherwise, a Labor Premier of South Australia agreed to the postponement of Chowilla at one stage. It has been suggested that, there were logical reasons for the postponement, but it is beyond question that a Labor Premier of South Australia agreed to its postponement. At this stage it would be wrong for us as a Federal House to intercede in this argument. I suggest that it would be equally wrong to deny finance for this project or in any other way to postpone it until we set up a national authority on general matters of water conservation which may have no specific connection with the question that we now have under review. It would be wrong to hold up what has been agreed between the States and what remains now an agreement between the States. Whilst it is argued that we are committed to an earlier decision which supported the original recommendation, I would point out that that proposal has since been rejected by the governments of 3 of the States, in addition to which those States have since carried resolutions for legislation supporting the present proposal. South Australia is the only exception. 
New South Wales and Victoria - South Australia has not yet agreed but is in the process of arriving at its decision by whatever means it considers it should use. That should be its right. We feel that probably the worst thing that we can do on this question is to vote for the amendment We support one of the principles in the amendment - that which proposes the setting up of a national authority to negotiate with the States - but why should the people of South Australia have  10  wait for their water, probably for a further 5 years before something can be accomplished and a body set into operation to deal with this problem in South Australia and along the River Murray in particular? This question is even more pertinent when it is realised that this project has been investigated over a period of many years. There is much expert advice available to us already. I think one point which has caused the whole trouble is the difference between the original estimate and the final tender for the dam at Chowilla. The dam which was proposed for Chowilla was of a type that we had never built before in this country. It would have involved certain engineering problems, the cost of which would be in excess of the normal costs where a dam can be anchored to rock. This method cannot be used at Chowilla. However, I do not suggest that as a valid argument for the abandonment of Chowilla. 
We do not advocate the abandonment of Chowilla. We do not know what will be the final recommendations in regard to Chowilla, but whatever it is this legislation gives support to the agreement between those States which have considered it and South Australia which has yet to consider it. I hope that the Commonwealth will play its part so far as finance and encouragement are concerned, lt is on that issue that we think the measure should stand or fall. We support the measure as it has been presented and we reject the amendment as one which will achieve nothing other than a postponement of the project with the result that South Australia will get no water, because it is certain in our view that South Australia would not have a ghost of a chance of financing the immediate construction of Chowilla. 
I wish to indicate the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party towards this Bill which sets out to do several things to widen the scope of the homes savings grant legislation. Before I deal with the actual legislation, as  Senator Devitt  has roamed far and wide over the whole gamut of housing, I think it is incumbent on me at least to suggest to the Senate that we were probably the first Party that advocated assistance in home ownership for young people getting married. We believed that many of the social problems of today, particularly those of juvenile delinquency and health, had their roots in the lack of housing and in bad housing as far as young people were concerned. We thought that in a developing nation such as Australia, with such a crying need for people, encouragement should be given particularly to young people so that they would have some hope of home ownership for a family of their own. We thought we were going a very expensive way about getting the people that we needed to populate the country by migration when a much cheaper and a much better way was closer to home - by assisting young people to have some prospect of having reasonable housing when they were to be married. Although our proposition was 6 years in advance of any thinking by any of the other Parties on this point, lt was not quite identical with the terms of the homes savings grants that the Government proposes. Our proposition was for young people, on marriage, to be given a grant of $500 which would depreciate after the birth- 
I could not give the honourable senator the actual date, but it was at least 6 years before the Liberal Party thought of giving some help because both the Liberal Party and the Australian Labor Party condemned our idea and said that it was too costly and unless we could show how much it would cost the nation it was completely impracticable. That is why it is so clearly fixed in my mind. It is fixed in my mind because of the opposition from the other Parties. We were the first in this field. That in itself is not really important when we discuss this legislation today. I think that our ideas were more soundly based than the proposition which the young people have had handed to them by the Government and which the Government proposes to broaden by this legislation. 
A house is very important to young married people, but it is far more important to a family. It is true today that it could be argued that a young married couple who gain the advantage of a homes savings grant may never have a family. If those are the ultimate circumstances and if they are both working, it would very well be that they could have purchased their home quite easily without the assistance of any government grant. We think that a more basically sound idea from a national point of view is a marriage loan which depreciates with the birth of each child and the repayments of which are wiped out completely with the birth of the third or fourth child. On this basis the nation could afford to give a far larger grant than that which is given now, which under today's conditions is revealing itself to be a rather paltry grant to young people. The grant does not assist young people very much. Indeed, it has not kept pace with the result of the lack of the Government's capabilities to manage the economy, 
The Government tells us that it should manage the economy and that that is why it has certain controls over banking institutions, why it has the right to tax federally and why it has the right to restrict the activities of the States in their spendings of money. The Government tells us that it is necessary for it to manage the economy. Any sensible person with the slightest knowledge of economics would tend to agree with that proposition. Seven States could not manage the Australian economy. If the Government says that it is necessary that it manage the economy, the Government is responsible for every increase that takes place in the interest rates that have to be paid for the use of money obtained on credit. The Government is not managing the economy in such a way as to keep the interest rates stable. The Government has very excellent reasons for allowing the interest rates to rise. It says it has to dampen the inflationary tendency. Every time the Government has increased the interest rates - from when they were  4i%  to now when they are 8%  -  it has given the same reason and every time it has failed to balance the economy or to dampen the inflation in a long range plan. 
How do we relate that increase in interest rates to this legislation? What does it mean to the young people who get $500 as a homes savings. grant? The latest increase in interest rates of 1% means that if a couple has a loan of only $8,000 it takes less, than 7 years before the $500 has gone in increased interest payments. The lovers of statistics say that this is nothing and that the couples need not pay any more each week; they only have to pay it over a longer period. If the interest rates are not levelled off somewhere along the line - if that reflects the philosophy of the Government - young couples will never own the home even if they do get a $500 grant to enable them to begin the purchase of it. Many phases of housing have to be taken into consideration.  Senator Devitt  made a point about the housing needs and requirements of young people. I remind him and other members of the Labor Party that I once belonged to that Party. In those days we believed in State housing projects to meet the emergency of the conditions after the Second World War. We poured countless millions into State housing projects, but we were not as wise as we thought we were. We attempted to avoid all the evils of the old time landlordism. We gave lifetime tenancies. Today the greatest proportion of State Housing projects are occupied by people who are not in emergency situations and who have no great need, while the very pitiful cases do not receive help.  Senator Devitt  is approached by a lot of people in need of housing. All honourable senators are approached but not as often as State members. 
It is virtually impossible in a period of less than 4 or 5 years to find State housing accommodiation for a young family that finds itself in difficult circumstances. By that time the marriage is on the rocks and the children may be separated from the parents and well on the way to becoming an expensive burden on this country, instead of an asset to it, becuase they are well on the way to juvenile delinquency and everything else associated with a broken home. We in the Labor Party, with the best of intentions in those days, did not see the requirements that I see very clearly now that, in the main, State housing projects should be for the emergency cases that occur mostly among young people. I refer to rushed marriages. The couples are not ready to build homes. I refer to families with young children of 2 and 3 which are forced to live in rooms or with in-laws. 
I think all of us in politics and those who give leadership in the community, should think a little more deeply and a little less politically about housing and about the emergency cases that confront us all the time. We should begin to realise that we cannot go back over past ground and correct an anomaly by limiting the terms of tenancies that, we offer people in State housing projects. We should start now with new tenancies and ensure that the people are encouraged to get to work and as the years go by, and as their prosperity improves, to buy a home for themselves so that the State housing project is available for the emergency cases. If we begin to think along those lines we begin to think more constructively about the housing problems in this country than if we begin to criticise one another politically and appeal to one another to do more than may be possible in the circumstances in which we have become accustomed to operating. 
I applaud the spirit of the legislation as a whole. I believe that it fulfils a promise that was made by the Government. I would like to see it go further, but it does bring within the ambit of the legislation some people who were previously excluded. It will admit to the advantages of this legislation some people who previously excluded themselves because the rules as they stood were a little difficult for them to understand and appreciate. Some of them did not quickly enough take the necessary action to make themselves eligible. Many of these people will now find it possible to benefit from the legislation. But the part of the legislation in which I feel the Government has failed to do what it set out to do is in relation to the eligibility of credit unions for people who wish to save the amount of money prescribed to be necessary to qualify them for a home savings grant. 
I believe that the Government has set out to do something very worthwhile. The credit unions are entitled to this because they have operated in this field and in the more minor fields of housing which are as necessary as the building of the house itself, that is, the equipping and the furnishing of the house. Heavens above, nobody would expect anybody to live in just a house. The equipment that is inside the house is surely just as necessary to make a home as is the building itself. The credit unions have lent quite considerable amounts of money - accepting that they are smaller lending institutions than the usually accepted housing loan institutions - for the purpose of purchasing land, and various subsidiary garages, fencing, sewerage and subsidiary components like that around a home. Young people, of course, were being enticed away -from saving money with credit unions. They would even save with credit unions for a period and then, as they approached the age of marriage, shift their savings to a recognised channel in which they could become eligible for the homes savings grant. This, I feel, was patently unfair to the credit unions and the Government now seeks to repair it in this legislation. 
I compliment the Government because it has set out to do this. I do not join in the attacks that  Senator Poke  made upon the Government for endeavouring to do this. My criticism is that the legislation does not do what it set out to do, that is, to make credit unions attractive for young people to continue saving with for the purpose of getting a homes savings grant because it is obvious that only one - perhaps none - of the credit unions can meet the requirements of the legislation. Unless they can meet the requirements and guarantee to those who save money with them that they can meet them it is obvious to anybody that they will not attract back to their ranks those people who have been enticed away by having to put their money elsewhere for the purpose of getting a home savings grant. They will not attract people unless they can give a surety that their organisation will be an eligible body under the legislation as it stands today. I can see that the Government has had reasons for placing limitations. I approve of the idea that the Government should place some limitations so that credit unions that are far too small to meet the responsibility of entering this field are not at this stage made part of this scheme. But why admit any at all if the conditions are so stringent that none or next to none are eligible and say to them: 'Well, there will be a day in the rosy future, if you set your mind to it, when you can make yourself eligible'. That will not attract any of the young people to save their money with credit unions. 
The deterioration in the numbers of their members will continue because they cannot offer a guarantee to young people immediately that they will be eligible if they save their money with credit unions. I can understand, too, how the Government has fallen into the trap of making the conditions too stringent to be met by the great majority of credit unions. The Government's philosophy on this question has apparently always been two pronged. It has wanted to encourage young people to save - that is a very worthy idea - and at the same time it has wanted lending institutions to make available to people for housing a larger proportion of their funds. I do not think anyone could quarrel with that proposition either. The Government has not found it necessary, though, to place restrictions on the other institutions which are eligible to accept the savings of young people who wish to qualify for the homes savings grant. 
What it has apparently done is to take the general ratio of lending of some of the larger banking institutions in relation to housing and the specific amount of individual loans as being the general criteria on which credit unions must seek to work if they wish to be recognised institutions for the purposes of the young people saving money to become eligible for a grant, lt has reduced these amounts by a small percentage. But would it not have been a more solid basis to examine the practices and the general capabilities of the credit unions and, if necessary, increase the amounts a little above what is usual to make them reach for something if the Government desires to get them to lend more money in the larger housing field rather than in the small housing field in which they are at present engaged? Perhaps I should make it clear what I mean when I say the smaller housing field. 1 mean those things that are just as necessary to create a home as the building of the house itself - the land on which the house is built and the equipment that, has to go into it, even the most modest equipment without which any house is not a home. Would it. not have been more logical - if we genuinely want to make some of the credit unions eligible in this field - to take what was their usual standard, not the usual standard of the big banking institutions, and increase it by a certain amount so that at least they would have something to strive and reach for? 
These are the provisions which I feel destroy the very worthy idea that the Government had in its mind when it first designed and introduced this legislation. The legislation makes it mandatory for credit unions to make a housing loan of an amount not less than $7,000 repayable over a period of not less than 12 years. This, of course, is probably the most difficult of all of the provisions for the credit unions to meet. They have not been in the habit of lending amounts of this size. They deal in a lower field of lending which is particularly not for housing, because they have not been eligible as institutions through which people can save for the homes savings grant. People have not been placing their money with credit unions for the purpose of borrowing for home building. It could be argued that ultimately the credit unions could become eligible. But operating against them all the time is the fact that while they are trying to become eligible they are still not eligible and cannot give the necessary guarantee to attract to them the money that normally would be saved with them for the purposes of a homes savings grant. 
I believe that, whilst the legislation as it stands would make eligible possibly one of the hundreds of credit unions that operate in this country - they say that in actual administration none at all will be eligible - if the amount of $7,000 could be reduced to some degree, although the door still would not be wide open it would be possible for 1, 2, 3 or 4 or perhaps even  5%  of the total number to get through. That would be a beginning and would build up in people confidence that credit unions could make the grade. But how will they be able to build up that confidence in people whom they want to save money with them under the legislation as it stands? The credit unions are very close to young people when they make their first savings. Usually it is a club in idea in the factory or other place in which they work. They get together and put their money into this institution so that at some stage they can borrow from it if they so desire. But unless the figure of §7,000 can be reduced to some extent the credit unions are debarred by the very legislation that, is said to admit-them. 
What has been the purpose of the legislation its far as the credit unions are concerned? Their immediate action when they thought they were in was to rush to Canberra and talk to everybody ' and then to start looking at the legislation. Suddenly these people who had been encouraged and led up the garden path began to realise that there were no possibilities for' them in the legislation. They have turned Very sour on the provisions which are part of this very worthy Bill and which were said to be in their interests. There must be something wrong when a piece of legislation is said to assist the credit unions and they themselves say: 'Baloney, lt does not assist us at all and it will not make a scrap of difference'. 
The Labor Party has moved a very sweeping amendment. It is an amendment with which we cannot agree at this stage because we believe that it opens the door completely in admitting credit unions, contains no restraints whatsoever and therefore could easily lead to very considerable abuses not necessarily by the credit unions that exist today but by people seeing opportu.nities to form very small credit unions with no other purpose than to make a particular person eligible for a homes savings grant.That would bc most undesirable. 1 am sure that it is not the wish of the Labor Party. 
Perhaps it has moved its amendment without giving it the consideration and thought that it should have been given before the Labor Party decided to place it before the Senate. 
We also believe that the section of the legislation that makes it mandatory for credit unions to provide by way of housing loans $50,000 in any one financial year and in every subsequent financial year is an impossible condition to place upon credit unions at this time. They could not give the necessary guarantee. The secretary has to give an undertaking in writing that his society will do this; yet he does not know who will want to borrow money and whether his society will reach this figure. But until he can give that written guarantee his organisation is not eligible to be considered one with which people can save money for the purpose of receiving a homes savings grant. While a credit union is not eligible its potential to meet the requirement is retarded all the time. I believe that, at least for a start, these very stringent conditions on the credit unions, which would be easy conditions for the major banking institutions of this country to meet, should be reduced to levels that are more possible for the larger credit unions to meet. 
At this second reading stage of this Bill, we commend these ideas to the Government for its deep consideration. We believe that this is a piece of very worthy Government legislation which needs very little done to it to improve it, to make it perfect and to make it most acceptable to us. At this stage we go no further than to indicate to the Government the criticisms that we have of this portion of the legislation. We hope that by the time we reach the Committee stage of the Bill we will be able to agree on something that will open the door just a little wider and allow a reasonable number of credit unions to participate in the legislation - something that I for one am prepared to say was the intention of the Government when it formulated the idea of this legislation. 

 Senator PROWSE (Western Australia) (10.46]- It gives me a great deal of pleasure to join in this debate on the amendments to the Homes Savings Grant Act that are being presented to the Senate. I was very interested to listen to the 2 previous speakers -  Senator Little  and  Senator 
Devitt. As  Senator Little  acknowledged, they departed somewhat from the general ambit of the Bill and discussed housing in general. I confess that it is a temptation, in debating this Bill, to range rather wide of the subject. I was also very interested to hear representatives of both the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party claim that if those parties were not the authors of the legislation at least it was their idea. This is something about which we are not very concerned because the facts are very plain. 
The original legislation was introduced in 1964. We know that  Mr Bury  was the first Commonwealth Minister for Housing and that since then housing - particularly the Homes Savings Grant Act - has been the responsibility of  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin. I for one congratulate the Minister for Housing on what has been done during the time she has been the Minister in carrying out her responsibility under this Act. We have seen a quite new venture in legislation. The evolution of homes savings grants, as  Senator Little  said, had 2 primary objectives. One was to encourage young people to save so that they could come into the housing field by buying their own homes with a substantial deposit. The second objective was to bring into the housing finance field an additional source of money which otherwise would have been frittered away on some temporary objectives but which under this legislation is directed with a great deal of incentive towards the young couple having a respectable deposit for their first home. 
When I spoke on the original Bill I was critical because it did not, to my mind, reach the people who needed the greatest encouragement to save and who needed low cost housing. I refer to the people who would normally look to State housing commission homes and a cheaper type of home. I believe that one effect of the legislation has been to direct the thinking of young people to houses of a standard and cost above their means. I listened with interest to a debate by a group of young people on the need for lifting the limit of the home savings grant. The Bill is recognising the need for lifting the limit which grants eligibility under the Bill. Some of these young people were talking in terms of houses costing $30,000. The purpose of the legislation is completely misunderstood if young people who contemplate venturing into this sort of home and this sort of expenditure expect the taxpayers to supplement their savings. This was not the purpose of the legislation. 
The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  has told the Senate of the large sums of money which have been paid out in homes savings grants. This is proof enough that the legislation is performing a useful function and that the grant is being availed of by young people. Honourable senators have listened to complaints, particularly from  Senator Devitt,  about the cost of housing. The inference was that the whole benefit of the homes savings grant had been lost because housing costs had risen. This is not very sound thinking because the reply is: 'Very well. In this case we take the grant away. You say it is of no effect.' If it is of no effect positively it would be of no effect negatively. I cannot accept the argument that the grant is of no value because the general cost of housing has risen. The level of wages has risen on a level with the increased cost of housing. It is like the chicken and the egg argument. 1 do not know which causes which. Certainly the increase in wages is a factor in the increase in housing costs. The other factor, of course, is the pressure of resources. It is very easy to talk about the injection of large amounts of money into the housing field as though that alone will solve the problem of housing. The injection of money into housing beyond the resources of the industry to cope would simply mean an increase in the cost of housing. It would not in any way make more houses available. 
This position is true also of what the Government is doing at the moment with regard to interest rates. Surely increasing interest rates adds to the servicing of the debt. Unless something is done in the present situation to ease the pressure on building resources the prime cost - that is the cost of housing - will go up far more than the increased cost of meeting the interest obligations. We have these two choices of accepting the lesser or the greater evil in the present situation. I do not think the speakers who have complained about the rising costs in housing have fully understood this situation. In Western Australia we have had perhaps the most serious problem in accommodating people at a time when we have had the greatest increase in population of any State in Australia. 
Speaking from memory of some figures I saw recently concerning building commencements over the last 5 or 6 years in Perth, we had double the number of houses being constructed. This is partly the reason for the increases in costs that we have experienced. 
The other day, in connection with my work as a member of the Public Works Committee, I had reason to examine the cost of houses being built for the State Housing Commission of Western Australia at Pearce. I found that at Pearce 3-bed- room houses with garages and various amenities were being built to the standard required of the Service at a cost of $9,600. The manager of the State Housing Commission supplied me with figures relating to comparable houses built in Balga and other suburbs in the metropolitan area of Perth. These 3-bedroom houses were currently being built for $6,650. Of course, in addition to this there would be the cost of the land, whatever blocks df land were costing in that area. What I wish to point out in this connection is that the cost of houses being built some 20 miles or  so  from the metropolitan area increased by approximately 50%. This cost increase was partly due to the fact that there were extra amenities provided in that area. Distance, pressure of building costs and very much higher rates of pay paid to people going into that area explains this very great increase in costs. 
Is the Minister representing the Prime Minister aware that a demonstration which was conducted in Canberra yesterday and which purported to be a call for peace was led by a mass display of Vietcong flags? Does he realise that pictures of this demonstration with the Federal Parliament building as a background, will already be on their way to be used in Communist countries to claim that the demonstration actually favoured not peace but victory for the Vietcong. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President- 

The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  -  Senator Little,  you are aware, of course, that your remarks must be confined to that section of the amendment which was amended by leave last night. 
I am very much aware that whatever remarks I make at this stage must be associated with an amendment that was most surprisingly moved after I spoke on the Bill itself and the amendment that was then before the Senate. I might say that in a career in the State Parliament and in my very short period in this Senate I have never before been faced with a similar situation in which an opposition, having moved an amendment, having had it discussed quite fully and having allowed a corner party such as my own to express its opinion on the amendment, has by leave withdrawn that amendment and replaced it with one which has an entirely different concept and which we were not given an opportunity to examine before it was brought into the Senate. This is a situation, I. suppose, to which one must adapt oneself. We initiated all of the ideas that are now contained in the amendment that is before the Senate as to the necessity for compromise particularly on the question of the stringent conditions applied to the credit unions.  Senator Devitt,  who preceded me last night, gave no warning to the Senate to expect any divergence from the amendment that had already been moved and certainly not one of such sweeping consequences as the one that was produced. I am sure that Labor senators in all fairness will forgive me if [ suggest that it must have been due to the remarks that I made in this Senate. Surely  Senator Devitt  would have at least made some reference to a changing of attitude by the Labor Party in this circumstance. 1 do feel that there has been a tremendous breach of faith in the introduction of these ideas in this manner. This, of course, is now a political exercise to try to seek aggrandisement for a political party rather than the objective that is contained in the amendment itself. If  Senator Poke,  who is trying to interject, feels aggrieved at my comment he must accept responsibility for the manner in which the amendment was produced. 1 challenge him to read his own speech in Hansard and to see whether at that stage he was in any way contemplating the change that is produced by this amendment. 
Of course, we examine this now as to its practical consequences. What does it achieve? It expresses an opinion to the Government. It does not do a thing and it cannot achieve anything. It has embodied in it, certainly, the principles about which I spoke and which I commended to the Government for consideration. 1 believe that a stage was being reached where the Government was giving very serious consideration, not necessarily to the terms of this amendment which now, not surprisingly, has been rejected by the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle 
Rankin), but at least to the fundamental principles of the 3 areas in which I was very careful not to indicate in any way to the Government that we felt that there should be specific proposals. We commended to the Government that it should give deep and mature consideration to what I consider - and which Hansard will verify or otherwise - were very commendable arguments placed by the Democratic Labor Party before the Government for its consideration in the 3 areas of this excellent Bill in which we believed it had some limitations. 
We do not wish to see this reduced to the stage of a political exercise in words that will accomplish nothing at all.I feel disposed - although some of the ideasI expressed are embodied in the amendment - to indicate to the Senate that it is still not our intention to support this amendment because it will accomplish nothing and merely expresses in more specific terms to the Government ideas that do not belong to the people who want them expressed in this manner but were indeed ideas of our own. 1 am disturbed because although the propositions that have been produced in this nefarious amendment are not identical with mine but they are so close to the area in which I was trying to accomplish something in another manner that there seems to have been a betrayal of confidence somewhere along the line andI allow the Labor Party to answer that for itself. 
If the honourable senator lacks confidence in me that is flattering indeed. I would hate to think that I was subject to a set of circumstances in which I had to depend on somebody else to do my thinking for me and then had to say that I had no confidence in that person. The honourable senator has already expressed in no uncertain terms his confidence in me. He has stolen my ideas. What greater flattery is there than that? If he was a person who I held in high regard, I would indeed be carried away with a sense of his dependence upon me. He who asks for it and tries to dish it out should be prepared to take it. I suggest that the honourable senator would do his cause more good if he listened and learned rather than tried to promote a discussion with me by way of interjection. The terms of this amendment will accomplish exactly nothing in the way of progress along the road that I would hope to see this legislation travel. I hope it still will travel along that road despite the disruption that has been caused by this. Because of the time that we have at our disposal we should shortly enter the Committee stage of this debate. This disruption has deprived us of the opportunity to prepare completely not only the techniques with which we were trying to accomplish something but also any propositions to put at the Committee stage. Therefore, I would hops that the Government, as we propose to defeat this amendment which will accomplish nothing, will give serious consideration to allowing more time at the Committee stage for the consideration of ideas which we commended to the Government. That is a matter that I accept as being entirely in the hands of the Government now because the Opposition, by its attitude on this legislation, has made it so. I make that further plea to the Government. I commend to it the idea that the Committee stage of this Bill should be given sufficient time to allow some consideration of the areas I have suggested need consideration. It is for those reasons rather than anything in the amendment as it is now before us that we propose to reject that amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be added  (Senator Poke's amendment)  be added. 
I move: 
That the Senate is of opinion that  a  Joint 
Select Committee of both Houses should be appointed to investigate the raising and distribution of revenue, to ensure that the Commonwealth and States be able to discharge properly their Constitutional functions. 
That this resolution be communicated by Message to the House of Representatives with a request that the House agree to the Senate's proposal. 
In moving this resolution on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party let me first of all emphasise to members of this Senate, this State House, that this is a question to which we in particular should give the lead at this time. It needs no words of mine to emphasise the need for something to be done in this area. The dispute between the States and the Commonwealth is not of recent origin and I emphasise that it is not a political dispute. The evidence of this is in the day to day reportings of the newspapers throughout Australia. They have emphasised the needs of the States which are not being met and the ever increasing role of the Commonwealth in the control of finance. 
The greatest critics and those who have pleaded most for something to be done for the States might well have been of the same political party as those who at the time were controlling the Commonwealth. I would venture the opinion that had the people in Canberra controlling the Commonwealth been of a completely different political complexion, and had those in government in the States been of a completely different political complexion, the same problem of Commonwealth and State financial relations that has received so much prominence would be with us today and we would be discussing this subject. This would have happened irrespective of the political complexion of the various State or Commonwealth governments because this is a question which in itself is bigger than the politics of the various parlies which are in control in the States and in the Commonwealth. 
If one turns back the pages of history it becomes apparent that the beginnings of this problem were in the immediate postwar years when in 1946 there was in Canberra a Federal Labor government led by the late  Mr Chifley.  Representatives of the States met him in the postwar years to talk about their financial requirements and the financial responsibilities which the States had ceded to the Commonwealth in order to meet the national crisis that we knew in the war against Fascism and against Japan. At thai lime there were 4 Labor Slate governments and a Labor Commonwealth Government, and in the whole of the Commonwealth there was only one Liberal Party government, that being in South Australia. The 4 Labor Governments of Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and Tasmania ceded to the Commonwealth broadly the financial taxing rights that the Commonwealth still controls today. The Liberal Government of South Australia also ceded those rights to the Commonwealth. But at that time the real problems had not emerged. 
The financial agreement between the Commonwealth and the States existed until about 1959 when it was renegotiated on a new basis, lt was in the years from 1959 to 1965 that the real problems began to make themselves apparent to the States. Many people were inclined to believe that the problem arose perhaps through the States' mismanagement of their finances and that the States should have been managing better than they were. But the figures disproved this suggestion. The figures show that the problem arose because of the agreement that had been reached, because of the growth rate in income tax in this rapidly expanding nation, circumstances which could not have been dreamed of in 1946. At that time there were for our people none of the practical problems which now face the people of this country, whether they were politicians in the State or Federal sphere or whether they were tradesmen, businessmen or professional men in the community. Australia's need to develop, to grow and to expand caused us to venture on a programme of immigration and expansion which before 1946 we had not even dreamed about. Thank God for Australia s sake it was a successful programme. Nevertheless, it left the States with tremendous problems of development that they had not expected, and the financial agreement with the Commonwealth left them little margin to continue with what was required in terms of hospitals, schools and all the other requirements of a growing community. lt is true that the States brought their problems to the Commonwealth, but their indebtedness to the Commonwealth, because of a system, to which the States had agreed, of allowing the Commonwealth to collect all the income tax, because of the tremendous growth of income that came about with our development and our improved prosperity for the families which were already here and the new families which were being added from day to day, meant that the returns to the States were inadequate to meet the demands for expenditure on education and hospitals and all the other expenditures that the States were required to meet. 
In 1965 another new agreement which was to last for 5 years was negotiated. But even at that stage in 1965  -  we are now in 1970, the year in which the agreement ends - the Liberal Premier of the State that [ represent in this Parliament prophesied at the time of the negotiations for the agreement that it would collapse or smash within 12 months. He was proved to be right. The agreement was inadequate and the States had to adopt all sorts of subterfuges and wrong, unjust and stupid methods of taxation in an attempt to meet the financial crises in the States. 
So far in this debate I have tried to say nothing provocative from a State or Federal political point of view, but I think it must be said that when the States were forced into the field of the turnover tax because no other field of taxation was available to them, they were forced into a situation where they either chose that method of raising further finances to meet their requirements or, as happened in some States, they had to legalise forms of gambling that are not good for us as a nation or as a people. We saw introduced forms of gambling which eat into the very heart and sou! of family life in the community in the State in which they are applied. ( refer to the gambling machines which were introduced as a method of raising the finance needed to meet the crisis through which the State was passing. Perhaps my choice of words is bad because it was not passing through a crisis; it was getting deeper and deeper into the mire. Even the State that resorted to gambling machines ultimately was forced to accept also the idea of turnover tax, an insidious tax which is a tax upon a tax, as is obvious to anybody who investigates it. It is applied even to the sales tax that is levied by the Commonwealth. 
Sales tax becomes part of the turnover price on any article and the turnover tax is applied to that price. As the retailing firms act as the collector for the Commonwealth of sales tax it becomes part of their turnover and they have to pay turnover tax on the sales tax, too. It was said by the then Treasurer that providing the turnover tax rate remains small it is an acceptable form of taxation from the Commonwealth's point of view for the States to levy. But he was succeeded by the present Treasurer  (Mr Bury),  who has expressed the opinion publicly that the rate could and should be increased by 10 times. In my view it was a hasty statement to make. Surely nobody thinks that industry or commerce could absorb in all of the ramifications of modern productivity a turnover tax 10 times larger and still retain a stable economy and an economy which is not subject to gross inflation. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  said that the tax which was levied in Victoria on wages - apparently wages were designated in some way as being turnover because they were received by the employee who earned them - would have to stop because it was inflationary, but he did not regard the turnover tax which could be applied on any article at every section of the manufacturing process as inflationary. On previous occasions in this chamber I have used a humble pair of shoes as an illustration, but one can use a motor vehicle or anything else one wishes as an illustration of the number of times during the manufacturing process a turnover tax can be applied to an article before it reaches the consumer on the street. The Prime Minister did not in his wisdom consider this form of taxation to be inflationary. 
I have recounted the factual events which have taken place to prove the need for an inquiry of the type which the Australian Democratic Labor Party suggests. The financial agreement between the States and the Commonwealth has to be renegotiated this year. Some may argue that the present basis should apply whilst others may argue that a better agreement should be negotiated. There are many signs which indicate that the necessary knowledge is not available to permit a better agreement to be negotiated. I would hope that it is not due to a lack of will to solve the problems on the part of those who are responsible. There should not be a successful Commonwealth with impoverished and degraded States. We can have a great Australian nation and a successful Commonwealth with prosperous States only if the commitments of the States can be legitimately met out of a fair form of taxation based upon the ability of everybody to pay, as income lax is, and not on impoverished and degraded States endeavouring to snidely raise the necessary revenue by turnover tax, particularly turnover tax levied on businesses which are losing money at the time. 
Is any honourable senator prepared to say that that is a fair method of taxation? If one is losing money in trying to make a living or establish a business, a firm or anything else should one be taxed on one's turnover? Is this the principle upon which we are endeavouring to build a great nation? If it is not, then turnover tax is wrong in principle. Income tax is based on the success of one's enterprise, on the profits that one makes and on one's capacity to pay. All income taxpayers receive allowances to meet the cost of rearing families or keeping their wives. The Democratic Labor Party has grave doubts that this matter of CommonwealthStates financial arrangements can be left any longer to a straight-out negotiation between the States and the Commonwealth unless all the best political brains in the country are urged to think about the problems and try to solve them. This is the objective of the Democratic Labor Party. 
Earlier this year the High Court of Australia ruled that certain States had no right to collect a form of turnover tax which they were collecting. The newspapers are my only guide on this aspect, but I have read in newspaper after newspaper that the Prime Minister promised the States that he would legislate to collect at a Commonwealth level the turnover tax which was denied to these States by the courts. As a member of the Parliament I have been waiting for the legislation to he introduced which will result in the implementation of this proposal. The newspapers also said that the proposal was to be made retrospective to cover the period of time which elapsed between the decision of the High Court and the ability of the Commonwealth Government to collect the tax which was said to have been illegally imposed by the States. 
 There may not be any more charge, but it will be very hard on the businessman who has been losing money during the last 6 months suddenly to discover that, together with the losses which have been made, he owes the Commonwealth a turnover tax which has been imposed retrospectively. Do honourable senators not have any sympathy for such a person? Should he not. have the same rights as prosperous Australians?  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood indicates by her interjection that this is something which is desirable, lt was a desperate measure which was adopted by the States because it was the only way out of a situation which developed as a result of the mismanagement of financial relations by the Commonwealth and the States. 
 Senator Young  is desirous of helping me. I think 1 am doing all right. However, I shall continue to endeavour to make my speech without his assistance. It is also a fact that in this period a practice has grown up which the Commonwealth itself accepts because it has signified to the States that it will do something about their indebtedness to the Commonwealth. I refer to the practice under which States have to borrow vast sums of money from the Commonwealth at rates of interest which the Commonwealth has not been able to maintain at a stable level. The money being borrowed is money paid by the residents of the States to the Commonwealth in the form of income tax. This money is going back to the States so that the States can provide the services which they are required to provide. The States are becoming indebted to the Commonwealth to such an extent that the stage has been reached where the interest bill which they have to meet almost equals the amount of money to which they are entitled from the Commonwealth under the CommonwealthStates financial arrangement. 
Some people are inclined to accept this as being a sensible proposition, but I honestly do not think that children in second grade at school would contribute to the suggestion that this is a commonsense arrangement, if it were a financial arrangement between themselves in terms of pennies these children would sec the fallacy of the arrangement. They would know that the arrangement must fall down under its own weight. Because of the situation which has developed the Democratic Labor Party is of the opinion that the stage in thinking has been reached where honourable senators should be reminded that before they represent the various political parties in this chamber, or anybody else, they should represent the States from which they have come and they should protect their own States from this very thing which has happened in the course of the development of Commonwealth-State financial relations. 
I want to return to the point al which 1 started by reminding honourable senators that in spite of anything that I may have said to prove that a situation has developed, I think that precisely the same course of events would have happened irrespective of the politics of the governments which held office in the States or the Commonwealth. The development of this situation is something for which we all must accept our reasonable share of responsibility. We cannot blink our eyes and suggest that if we fail to look the problem straight in the face and make a reasonable attempt to do something more than has been done in the past, the problem will go away. We cannot adopt the policy merely of paying off some of the State debts or forgetting some of the tremendous interest burdens that are now owed to the Commonwealth by the States. The situation has reached the stage at which 1 State Premier, the Liberal Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, has placed before the Commonwealth figures to prove that the Australian States have now taken over the responsibility for repaying the national debt of this country. Not only have the States taken over this responsibility; they have also taken over the responsibility for meeting the interest commitments. 
The Commonwealth is responsible for fixing the general interest rates that are charged on money borrowed throughout the Commonwealth, and even before the recent increase of three-quarters of 1% in interest rates,  Sir Henry  Bolte claimed that the Commonwealth was enriching itself with every increase in interest rates. I do not know what comments he is prepared to make, in the midst of the Victorian election campaign, about the Commonwealth's recent action in increasing interest rates, but if his argument was sound in February of this year., when he and the other 6 Premiers put before the Commonwealth what they considered to be an unanswerable case regarding the financial state into which they had fallen, then it is sound today. 
We can no longer continue to shut our eyes to the consequences of the patches that we have been applying to the system. If we have not got the courage to face up to the situation, -to learn from our experience of 24 years of application of the present system and to realise that unless some of the right to levy the only just method of taxation that exists in our community - income taxation - is returned to the States, then the problem will always remain with us, irrespective of the patches that we may apply to the system. So we suggest that a joint select committee of both Houses should be appointed to investigate the raising and distribution of revenue, to ensure that the Commonwealth and States may be able to discharge properly their constitutional functions, and naturally we suggest that this resolution should be communicated by message to another place with a request that that House agree to the Senate's proposal. 
 As I said in the course of my remarks, I do not think that all the best brains of this country are in the Democratic Labour Party, I do not think that they are all in the Australian Labor Party and I think there is plenty of evidence to indicate that they are not all in the Government, otherwise we would not be discussing this proposition tonight. 1 do not think that all the best brains are in the Senate, either. The responsibility rests with the Commonwealth. We hope that politics will be forgotten in this matter. If we can appoint a joint select committee of both Houses of the Commonwealth Parliament, surely there should be members on that committee with sufficient capacity and ability to apply themselves to this problem and if not to come up with a perfect answer - indeed, that may be very difficult to do and it may need a period of trial and error - at least to start us on the right road. We do not want to continue as we have done in the past. This question has been discussed on two occasions at conferences between the Commonwealth and the States. No matter who may have been Prime Minister and Treasurer at the time of the conferences, all they have been able to do is to apply patches which have not succeeded in the objective of granting the States what they want. 
I think that members of the Government Parties and of the Labor Party will agree, because they are all politicians, that it takes tremendous pressure to make people who all belong to the same political party say what has been said by the various State Premiers about the Commonwealth's management of Australia's finances in the last 10 years. I earnestly believe that honourable senators would agree with me when I say that these things would have been said about the Federal Government irrespective of whether the people who said them were of the same political complexion as the Government or not. So a departure from the previous procedure is required. We are not advocating something that is tremendously extreme. What we are saying, in effect, is: 'Let us get the best brains of the people who have been elected to both Houses of the Federal Parliament to examine the situation, with politics cast aside, to see whether they can come up with a proposition which is better than the 1 which has developed out of the present system'. 
I think I need say no more to prove the case that a problem exists. If anybody should doubt what I say, I suggest that he read in State Hansards the reports of what the various State Premiers have said. Surely ail the Premiers cannot be cranks. Surely they cannot all be wrong in the explanations that they have to make on this question to their own Parliaments. If I have proved that a case exists, let us all agree with the proposition that has been brought forward tonight. Even if some of us might have to strive a little to forget from where the proposition comes, it is brought forward genuinely in the interests of making a better and great Australia. For that reason I ask honourable senators at least to  carry  the proposal through the Senate which has such a tremendous responsibility to the States. 
I  had no intention of entering this debate, but I feel there are some areas of this matter, which has become the major question before the Senate, that have not been covered. These questions should be covered if this matter is to be discussed thoroughly.  I  think, first of all,  Senator Georges  should be answered. He endeavoured to make a comparison - it was a very poor one - between what happened in South Korea and what is going on in South East Asia. I suggest to him he should get his historical facts in their proper perspective before he starts to condemn the Government of South Korea. The Government of South Korea exists because its integrity was preserved by the action of the United Nations in appealing to the governments affiliated with the United Nations to take action to protect the integrity of the people of South Korea.  I  do not know whether  Senator Georges  belonged to the Australian Labor Party as long ago as that, but that body was a party to the protection of the people of South Korea. The trade union movement of this country debated the issue of South Korea and in its wisdom or otherwise decided that the cause of the people of South Korea was a cause which should be protected; so too did supporters of the Government, which means it was a unanimous decision.  I  cannot speak for the Party to which  I  belong at the moment because at that time  I  was a member of the Australian Labor Party of which  Senator Georges  now proudly claims to be a member. But the fact that emerges is that we were all unanimous about South Korea. 
Now  Senator Georges  says that the war in South Vietnam is an illegal war and he seeks to draw a comparison with what happened in South Korea.  I  suggest that he is right. The incident in South Korea was not different from the incident in Vietnam today,  lt  is a continuation of the same struggle. This is the crux of the situation which causes honourable senators on my right - although on the left of the political spectrum - to make the same mistake about South Vietnam as they made about South Korea. They are trying to isolate the incident in Vietnam as though it is something happening in the world which has never happened before. Of course it has happened before, and it is happening all over the world. It is persisting, lt is the march of those who favour a dictatorial philosophy of Communism as against those who favour a democratic spirit. I think  Senator Georges  and members of the Australian Labor Party make the same error when they become confused as to what loyalty they owe to Australia itself. lt matters very little to me as an Australian whether we are technically at war in South Vietnam. Those who march under the Vietcong flag are killing Australian soldiers. Whether we are like  Senator Cavanagh  who has a viewpoint different from mine is beside the point: the important point is the loyalty which we owe to this country. When a government., rightly or wrongly, makes a decision which involves my compatriots, my fellow Australians, in bearing arms in fighting for this country ] feel -  Senator Cavanagh,  who is trying to interject, can speak for himself - that irrespective of whatever point of view I might hold, I owe a loyalty to these men. I do not subvert them in the military action they are forced to take. I am prepared to admit that even the men in the front line may have some qualifications and doubts but they do not express their doubts by stabbing one another in the back. There would not be one person in this political forum who does not know the extent to which propaganda can destroy the morale of troops in the front line. 
1  will answer that question, as to why we do not bring the troops back, in  a  moment. Honourable senators are over eager when they require information from me. Let me take my own time. 1 will come to that point. The fact of the matter is: To whom do we owe loyalty? As a political forum of trained politicians, do we not know the value of propaganda? Would any honourable senator reasonably say that the photographs of the Moratorium Campaign marchers in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide and Canberra, supporting the Vietcong, have not already gone to the source from which they will do the most damage to our soldiers and assist those who are endeavouring to kill them? The photographs will encourage those who are endeavouring lo kill our soldiers to persevere in spite of their military reverses, lt will be said in the propaganda sheets where these photographs will be displayed: 'Look, you are really being supported by masses of people back in Australia who are slabbing their own soldiers in the back. Here are the photographs illustrating the march not for peace but in favour of the Vietcong which took place in Melbourne.1 Do not accept me as an authority. Accept  Dr Cairns.  He went on television on Sunday night and admitted that there were only Vietcong flags, Red flags with a hammer and sickle on them, some black flags, and the North Vietnam flag. There was not one Australian flag. What would be the result of the display of this propaganda? 
The Labor Parly would not miss such a glorious opportunity, if it were able to exhibit material with as good political prospects in its favour. Does the Labor Party think thai the Communists in Haiphong or Peking are any less able in the arena of political propaganda than it is? This is what the Moratorium Campaign did. Whatever may have been the tragedy of it politically for a recognised political party in this country, the Australian Labor Party, the Moratorium was a tremendous victory for the Communist Party in this country. It could not have won this victory in its own right without the assistance of well-meaning people who were misguided. They may not have been misguided had it not been for the active support of a responsible political party such as the part)' to which 1 once belonged - the Australian Labor Party, lt is said that some supporters of the Liberal Party were involved. They may have been for all I know or for all anyone else knows. Everybody knows that there were people in  this Moratorium Campaign who had personal views on this question which differed from the views held by others. It is not really a party political question as far as politics in this country are concerned. 
These people start off on the wrong premise. They think that South Vietnam is an isolated incident not related to the war in Korea and not related to what happened in Malaya when Australian and British troops had to go in and protect the civilian population of that country from the murderous activities of the terrorists there who were prompted by the Communists. They think it is not related in any way to the coup which was  nearly  successful in Indonesia. Those people who isolate their thinking to the one particular problem as far as Vietnam is concerned and say that this is something that is happening quite irrespective of what else is going on in the world can be misled on the whole question as the Labor Party - or some members of it - is misled in thinking that this can be technically argued on the basis of what is happening in South Vietnam as the Australian Labor Party inevitably argues it.  Senator Georges  today made the classic blunder of making the attack that he made on the Government of South Korea, showing that whatever may be said publicly by the Labor Party some of its members are well aware that the whole situation as far as the East is concerned, and so far as the whole of the world is concerned, is a battle of 2  ideologies. They are beginning to stand on one side and other people in this democracy of ours stand on the other. 
I believe that I must help  Senator Cavanagh  who is keen and eager to know why we do not end the slaughter and create peace by bringing home our troops. Let us have a look at the validity of the argument. Let us relate it to  Senator Georges'  proposition about Korea. Since the war in Korea ended in 1952 - 18  years ago - America has sustained over  50,000  troops there. Does the honourable senator suggest that in Korea - even  18  years after the war has ended - if the troops were returned to America tomorrow there would be peace? There would be the greatest blood bath that one could possibly imagine in Korea and yet you would take the risk - you the pacifists, you the ones who march behind not the flag of the dove of peace but the Vietcong flag - of sending them home from 
Korea. You would leave the Koreans to face the results of your irresponsible actions. 
There are other people who think more widely and more deeply and who recognise the fact of life that if the troops of America - which does not want to have them there - were extracted from South Korea tomorrow there would be just the same blood bath in South Korea as there would be in South Vietnam if the troops were withdrawn from there before a situation is created in which the South Vietnamese, with a minimum of assistance, can look after themselves. Labor Party senators know - they have quoted Denis Warner and others who have written about it - of the tremendous slaughter that would take place in South Vietnam of those who oppose the Communist cause if the troops were withdrawn. They have seen the practical examples in Czechoslovakia and they have led resolutions here in this Senate expressing their sympathy for the people of Czechoslovakia for what has happened to them. But seeing the iron fist that is prepared to crush anybody who deviates from the line I suggest that we should get back to where Australians owe their loyalty. I say that any Australian who wants to stand up and say: 1 am loyal to this country and this flag' should be ashamed to stand behind a flag - whether we are technically at war or not - under which those who kill our fellow Australians march. On that point I say that the alleged Moratorium for peace condemned itself. It became not a demonstration for peace at all but a demonstration in favour of the aggressors in Vietnam. 
1 wish to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment that has been brought down by the Government, that is, in line 6 in clause 5 on page 4 of the Bill, to leave out 'seven' and insert 'five*. We will vote against the further amendment that has been moved by the Australian Labor Party. 
I will give  Senator Devitt  an explanation concerning the repayment period, because it is quite clear to me now that the Australian Labor Party has always been a long way behind in understanding what the credit unions want and, in effect, what the Democratic Labor Party has been proposing. Now the Australian Labor Party is prosecuting something on which the credit unions have had a full explanation and which they no longer require. If the honourable senator listens to my explanation he will understand why, in the history of this piece of legislation, the Labor Party has made such a very sorry showing. It has moved an amendment, and after everybody has discussed it, it has amended its own amendment in order to try to get on to the political band wagon. 
Of course, this legislation does not have only one purpose in mind, that of allowing credit unions to participate in the lending of homes savings finance. The legislation must retain the original intention and motive of the Government. We must concede that point. Perhaps if there were a different government, if the Democratic Lahor Party were in government, we might add to the Government's intentions, we might broaden them, but the present Government is the Government of the day, and its purpose under this legislation is, first of all, to encourage people to save. That is why credit unions are embodied in the legislation. But another purpose of the legislation is to make available to those seeking finance an ever widening resource to which they can go to borrow money for the purchase or building of a home. This legislation, which seeks to amend the Homes Savings Grant Act, covers many other very desirable aspects and we as legislators have a responsibility not to hold the legislation up unnecessarily by adopting futile delaying tactics. All of these matters have to be taken into consideration. 
It is true that we in the Democratic Labor Party would have perhaps gone further and proposed a reduction of the amount of the prescribed housing loan to less than $5,000, but if we did that, as a matter of practical politics we would get into the category of the Australian Labor Party which in another place moved an amendment which was virtually along the line which  Senator Georges  is suggesting, that is, to make this legislation apply to every credit union, however small it might be. It might have only 10 members and completely lack finance. 
It can in some States. If the honourable senator gets a list of the registered credit unions he will find some with as few as 9 members. 
Let us make it 20 members, if  Senator Georges  wishes to argue that point. The point I am really making is that if the amendment which was moved in another place had been accepted it would virtually have meant that all credit unions were in, irrespective of the amount of money or the number of members in them. In the final analysis that would not be a good thing for the homes savings grant legislation. It would financially embarrass many small credit unions. They would not be capable of participating in the homes savings grant scheme, nor would they wish to do so. The Government will not accept such an amendment, because a similar amendment was rejected in another place, and the Labor Party in the other place did not even consider moving a further amendment to reduce the amount of the prescribed housing loan. The legislation then came to this chamber. When it came here the Labor Party moved an amendment which was identical with that moved in another place. After 2 speakers from the Labor Party had made contributions to the debate - and neither of them mentioned the areas to which I directed the whole of my attention in my speech -  Senator Poke  then sought leave to amend his amendment, to introduce the very question which I have been discussing in order to try to obtain some benefit for people in credit unions. 
But it is obvious that whatever we may think in this chamber, we cannot impose our will concerning this legislation on another place which has already rejected out of hand the proposition which the Labor Party in this chamber has advanced. To try to impose our will on another place could endanger the other very worth while proposals which the Government has included in this legislation. Many things are said about the Democratic Labor Party, but we are very responsible people when it comes to the interests particularly of those people who are prepared to build their homes and who want to create their own source of finance through the formation of cooperatives. We have given these people every encouragement throughout the political history of the Democratic Labor Party and, indeed, much of the original cooperative housing legislation was introduced as a result of the efforts of the people who today form the Democratic Labor Party. A culmination of our efforts is the proposition that is before the Committee tonight. I think that the Government should be congratulated for having moved at all on this question. It has moved quite considerably. 
The legislation has already been debated for a long time. I am one of those who, recognising the good things that are in the legislation, do not want to see it delayed further by futile political manoeuvres which may add to the political aggrandisement of a party when it talks to the people, or when it tries to sustain a case, but which will do nothing practical to get for people in credit unions the very things that they want. For that reason and for that reason alone, as I made perfectly clear when we rejected the Australian 
Labor Party's amended amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, tonight we are prepared to accept the proposition that the Government has brought forward. Reducing from 57,000 to $5,000 the amount of the prescribed housing loan will open the door considerably wider than the original legislation. I think that is proof of the good faith and the good intentions of the Government. It is prepared to move this far away from its original intention so that more credit unions are allowed to participate in this legislation now. 
Having said that, I deal now with the period of nol less than 12 years over which a prescribed housing loan is repayable and in which Labor senators were so interested. The credit unions now have a knowledge that none of us had before. The first interpretation that could be placed upon the clause was that the loan had to be for a period of 12 years. This is still true. The loan has to be made for that period. But, like any other loan, it can be paid off in a period of 2 years if the borrower so desires, lt still is a legitimate loan for the purposes of the homes savings legislation because it was made for a period of 12 years. 
It could be for 12 years if the borrower so requires. This fits in with the intention of the Government in making sure that the borrower may take 12 years to repay the loan if he so desires. We should make sure that we do not run away with the idea that this legislation is only for the benefit of the credit unions. lt is also and primarily for the benefit of the borrower - the person who wants to build a home. The credit unions, like cooperative housing societies - wonderful is they are and no matter how much I support them - exist only to serve and function in the interests of the borrower. We must not lose sight of the fact that at all times the borrower must be the person who retains the greatest interest, whether he borrows from his own credit union, from a cooperative society or from a banking institution. Is it not right that he should have the longer period if he so desires? If we make it obligatory that a borrower can borrow for only 3 or 5 years, only the wealthy could borrow. Only those who see ahead of them a huge income and who can pay off a debt rapidly would be able to borrow. 
The interpretation we now have of this clause seems to be acceptable to the credit unions, if not to the Labor Party. If the Labor Party is not up to date with its information from the credit unions, I suggest that it is no worse off than it was the other night when it lagged a long way behind everybody else with its information. The loan must be repayable over a period of 12 years. I agree that we should protect the interests of the small man - the little man who sees only a limited income in the period in which to pay off that loan. If he desires and if he arranges with his credit union to pay it off in 3 years he can do so. There is nothing to stop him. As the legislation stands, the benefit can be received both ways. If the period of repayment is reduced to 5 years, only the man on the higher income who can see himself paying off the loan within the period of 5 years will be eligible for the prescribed housing loan. 
In their amendment, Labor senators have not considered the practical effects on the interests of the little people that they want to represent - not the credit unions as such but the people who make the credit unions, the ones who put their money into the credit unions. In the final analysis^, surely those people are more important than the organisation of the credit union as it exists. I think that this clause, as it is acceptable to the Government, should be passed. It is necessary that this legislation, after it has been delayed so long, should be passed as quickly as possible and become effective in the interests of widows and divorcees with children and in the interests of people who at the moment are trembling on the brink of wanting a $16,000 home but who are limited to a $15,000 home. We should not waste time on idle political manoeuvring that has no possible chance of success. I think that the mover of the further amendment to reduce the amount of the prescribed housing loan to $3,000 and to reduce the period of repayment is perfectly aware that all that could be accomplished is that the Bill would be sent from this place to another place and we would have it back again in another couple of weeks in its original form - perhaps with the period of repayment not even 5 years. Labor senators would resent that. They would risk losing a concession for the foolish political manoeuvring of being able to say: 'We moved something which the Democratic 
Labor Party would not support.' We do not care what they move. We are prepared to stand for the interests of the people we want to represent in Parliament. We think that the best thing that could be done is to support this legislation. We are prepared to support the Government's amendment. 

 - Senator Cavanagh has now asked this question twice. It is obvious to me that he is not reading the 2 clauses in their proper context, and that is why he is getting the wrong impression of them. The obvious reason why not less than 15% of the total amount lent by the credit union to its members during each subsequent financial year will be lent by way of prescribed housing loans is that this will cover those credit unions which are perhaps very large and where the $50,000 will not amount to that proportion of their lending for a particular year. 
 Senator Georges  will learn by this. That makes the $50,000 the minimum. That is quite logical. I do not support the minimum of $50,000. I would have liked to have seen it lower but I realise 
I have told the honourable senator once and I will tell him again if he will listen. I support it because I realise that it is the best that I can get. I think that is a pretty practical reason for supporting it. If the honourable senator does not think so, then let him pursue the tactics he is pursuing and see for how long he delays the Bill and still does not achieve anything better than the minimum of $50,000.  Senator Cavanagh  has said that the $50,000 is there. That is all right. The 15% which must be lent by way of prescribed housing loans also is there. The purpose is obvious. From talking to credit unions I have learned that many of them can manage their $50,000 quite comfortably. The bigger ones which lend a lot more will have to lend more than $50,000. They will have to lend 15%. The total must be 15% of their total lending. 
That is for loans not for prescribed housing loans. One relates to housing loans and the other to prescribed housing loans. You must read the whole amendment with the other clauses and discover what is a prescribed housing loan which, if the Government amendment is carried, will now be of the order of $5,000. Those clauses are perfectly logical to attain the things that they are intended to attain. I think  Senator Cavanagh  would realise, when he understands that there are some credit unions which can lend more than $50,000, that the clauses are there for the sole purpose of seeing that the bigger credit unions lend still more for prescribed housing loans. 
He, like I, wants to see the young people have still more and wider finance available to them. If there is one thing which will cut the cost of loans to young people trying to buy a house it is the fact that funds are readily available everywhere. Money is like every other commodity in thai respect. The scarcer it is to the borrower the more tendency there is for interest rates to increase. The Government has a very worthwhile objective in trying to increase at all times the amount of money that is available to young people who are seeking a loan.  Senator Georges  referred to extortionate interest rates. The only part of his argument with which I agree wholeheartedly refers to the wonderful work that the credit unions are doing. They are defeating some of the organisations that lend money at atrociously high rates of interest to people endeavouring to build a home. 
I rose for only 1 reason - I know I am being enticed away from it - and that was to point out to  Senator Cavanagh  that there is a legitimate reason for those clauses. To read into them the reasons he does is to charge the Government with a lack of goodwill and good faith in this. I believe that the Government has its reasons. It now has seen its way clear to open the door a little wider, and at this stage I do not think we should charge the Government with a lack of goodwill because to do that is tantamount to saying that nothing should be done. 1 do not think that you get anything out of a government, an opposition or anyone else if you start kicking them in the face. I, for one, am prepared to accept the Government's reasons although, perhaps, they are not completely acceptable to the credit unions. I would like to have in the Bill everything that the credit unions want. I am prepared to admit that the credit unions are a specific type of organisation, and they are prepared to admit that if they want to enter the field of housing they will have to change some of the things which have stood them in good stead in the past.  Senator Georges  was wrong when he referred to interest rates. The credit unions recognise that they have to amend some of their previous practices and the manner in which they have charged and have paid interest. 
The Bill will force them to do it if they want to become eligible. They recognise that they will have to conform more to the practices of the larger lending institutions if they are to come within the ambit of this Bill. They feel that they are quite capable of doing that. In my view they are in the best position to know. I suggest to  Senator Cavanagh  that, in the context of what the Government is trying to achieve with this legislation, if he reads the 2 clauses to which he has objected, particularly that relating to the 15%. he will realise that the purpose for its being there is obvious. 

 - I shall be very brief. I wish only lo indicate how the Democratic Labor Party feels about the proposed amendment. We would certainly have liked to have seen the figure left at 15% rather than have a specific amount mentioned. 
Sena lor LITTLE  -  As I said, 1 intend to be brief. 1 wish the honourable senator would allow me to be brief. As I said earlier in the debate, other things have to be considered in relation to this legislation. I think that  Senator Poke  in giving the history of this legislation has indicated the reason why at this stage the Democratic Labor Party feels that there should be no Further unnecessary delays which will accomplish nothing. There are other benefits from this 
Bill which people are waiting to get and which have been delayed long enough while the Parliament has been in recess. The House of Representatives gave consideration to an amendment which achieved nothing which is not already contained in the measure now before us. 

 Senator Poke was probably right when he said that the credit unions canvassed all political parties. Representatives of the credit unions came to me. At that time they had no knowledge of what the Bill meant, but now perhaps we all know more about it than when we started. I advised them to look at a certain wording of the Bill, which they did and in relation to which they suggested certain amendments. For  Senator Poke's  information, the credit unions have not been out of touch with me since. They certainly would have liked the $50,000 not to be mentioned in the legislation, but when we consider the amount of $5,000 for a prescribed housing loan we realise that they must make 10 loans each of $5,000 in order to reach the amount of $50,000. If the credit unions are big enough to do that they will probably reach the 15% proposed in &gt; the clause and automatically would have the amount necessary for prescribed housing loans. If the reference to $50,000 were deleted from the clause the result would probably be no different from the situation if the 15% still remained. However, in practical politics, the obvious thing is that as the amendment has been rejected in another place there is no prospect of achieving it here. All that will be achieved will be delay. I put this to  Senator Poke  quite fairly and honestly. He knows that this is true in practical politics. It will delay the legislation for probably another month. I do not see that that will do any good at all. It is for that reason, rather than for any other reason, that we do not support the Labor Party's amendment. I note the complete futility in endeavouring to delay the legislation at this stage. The subject of the amendment was placed very strongly before the Government in my speech during the second reading debate, and subsequent to my speech the Labor Party placed the matter before the Government in its amended amendment. If perhaps I drew the wrong conclusion as to why the amendment was introduced at that stage, what does that matter now? I do not think I drew the wrong conclusion. 
Perhaps I have learned some bad habits from the Labor Party, and the reasons that I have attributed to them are the sort of reasons that they wish to attribute to us. Indeed,  Senator Poke  has just attributed those reasons to me in his argument in support of the amendment to the clause. We do not propose to support the amendment at this stage because we believe that all that could be accomplished by doing so would be to delay still further legislation that already has been too long delayed. The Government is introducing an entirely new field into the homes savings grant legislation which, of necessity, must be of a somewhat experimental character. We would think that in line with the good faith which the Government has now shown in opening the door a little wider, by its own proposed amendment to the- original clause, if this clause proves in actual practice to be excessive, the Government will take the necessary action to amend the clause. 
The Government has shown its good faith in reducing the original amount of the prescribed housing loan from $7,000 to $5,000, which, according to the credit unions, was the biggest bar to their participation in the scheme. Because of its very character, this Bill is an experimental piece of legislation. It includes a whole new field of credit unions as organisations that are acceptable for the purposes of the homes savings grant scheme. I am confident that the Government will extend the scheme further if it proves necessary to include a greater number of credit unions. It is for those reasons that we do not support the amendment. It is not because of any lack of sympathy with the original desires of the people who wanted to delete the requirement that a credit union must lend $50,000 a year for purposes in connection with the acquisition of homes but who now, I understand, are prepared to give the legislation a go for the purpose of getting it made the law of the land. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [10.23] - I rise after  Senator Poke  and  Senator Little  have spoken to indicate that the Government cannot accept the amendment moved by  Senator Poke.  I think that we have to look at the whole purpose of the legislation, as we have already done tonight. 
Credit unions seek to have their savings accepted for the purposes of the homes savings grant scheme so that their members can share in the benefits of the scheme. It is for this reason, 1 believe, that credit unions should be fairly asked to understand the scheme's objectives, which have been discussed tonight. Credit unions are asked to contribute to the scheme by making loans available for housing, lt is also reasonable to ask the credit unions, if they are willing to contribute to the scheme's objectives, to do so in a practical way. 

 Senator Little has made the point very clearly - and I make it again - that surely the $50,000  requirement is not too onerous to achieve in practice. A credit union need make only  10  loans of  $5,000  each, or  8  loans of  $5,000  and a number of smaller loans. This is a practical way in which credit unions could make loans available for housing and so achieve the requirement.  1  believe that by including this requirement in the legislation we are ensuring that we guarantee the purpose of the legislation. I appreciate the point that  Senator Poke  made, when he said that he thought this was good legislation. 1  appreciate the point that  Senator Little  made, when he also said he thought that it was good legislation, and the further point he made when he said he thought it would be a good thing if we could get the legislation through the Parliament so that people can benefit from it. I suggest that if the passage of the legislation can be made a little speedier, it will be of advantage to those who will benefit from it. I again indicate that 1  cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Poke. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Do the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories intend to produce and market the recently announced vaccine which controls foot rot in sheep? If so, is it known when supplies of the vaccine will be available? Further, in view of the reported criticism by  Dr Vernon  Pleuckhahn, who is a pathologist at the Geelong Hospital, of the use of multi-dose hypodermic syringes as a result of 2 deaths in 1969 following injections of people with Hong Kong influenza vaccine, I ask: Have the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories taken any action to pack such vaccines in single dose disposable syringes? 
I should like to indicate thc attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party towards this amendment. We do not propose to support it, although we do not have the terms of the amendment before us at the moment. We believe that it could be a dangerous amendment to introduce into the Bil] at this stage. It does appear, at  first  sight, that there could be some justification for introducing these sorts of alleged safeguards for the professional standing of the people who are concerned. 1 take a step further the analysis which was made by the Minister for Supply  (Senator Anderson).  He referred to recommendations coming back from these bodies. If any person who has been appointed to one of these bodies were dismissed by some whim of the Minister in accordance with the powers that he could exercise, I suggest that these bodies in themselves would be sufficient protection for the professional standing of the people on these bodies. I am quite sure that if a member were dismissed, these bodies would not nominate another person to take his place. It would be as simple as that. 
Perhaps a Minister could, in a fit of irresponsibility, exercise such power of dismissal, which is unquestionably there. I think we have to recognise that in advisory panels of this nature there is such a thing as the personal incompatibility of people. It may be desirous that some change should be made. Does the Minister then have to prove misconduct or incompetency on the part of the person? That would be very bad indeed. Then one would get to the stage of arguing what constitutes incompetency. ls it suggested that if a person who is appointed to a panel degenerated into a state of alcoholism, that would constitute misconduct? Some people would say that it would affect his professional status and competency, and therefore he would no longer be competent. Other people might argue the reverse. One could take that a step further. If a member of a panel becomes an immoral person, does that constitute incompetency or misconduct in the course of his profession? I think that once we nominate these qualifications under which the Minister can exercise his right of dismissal, we bring in to the matter a concept of argument that should not be applied to a body which operates in an advisory capacity. 
We believe that the professional status of the people who are involved is quite well protected. We feel it would be a very poor sort of a person who had reason to suggest that a Minister would exercise this power of dismissal capriciously. We think it is unlikely to happen, but if it did happen - and we have to admit that where the human factor is involved things can happen - we feel that the protection of the qualified person as a specialist is well afforded by the bodies that are behind him and which nominate him. We do not feel that these bodies would take very lightly any action which the Minister took capriciously. Of course, I admit that in the case of incompatibility of an officer with a particular Minister - where there is a clash of personalities - it probably would never get down to the stage where the Minister had to exercise his power of dismissal. The thing would be sorted out by agreement. If people on this level find that they cannot work together, usually some compromise is reached without the Minister's power being exercised. 
It seems to me to be reasonable that the Minister should have some power. But we cannot see how one can express it in legal terms in order to give complete protection to everybody without being involved in legal arguments that probably would never establish anything anyway. It is for those reasons that we cannot accept this amendment which so obviously has been conceived in haste. With the issues that are involved, probably none of us has had an opportunity at this stage to give the amendment the consideration and depth of thought that would be necessary to insure that the amendment in seeking to cure one ill did not impose an even greater evil in the Bill. For those reasons we would not be prepared to support the amendment at this stage. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [10.30] - i would just like to answer  Senator Dittmer  who raised a point about specialists. lt would not appear likely to be a case that would occur in Queensland where we have a well established Medical Practitioners Registration Board. Cases may arise where doctors have been accepted as specialists for the purpose of the present National Health Act but for their own reasons the doctors concerned have not applied for recognition under the law of their own Slate and these cases would need to bc specially examined under the amended Act. There is 1 State in which a doctor cannot be recognised as being a specialist in more than 1 field. An example of which I am told is where the specialist is a specialist in 2 different fields but in his own state he could not be recognised in the 2 Fields and therefore he would not apply for registration at all. I think that would be a case of a specialist who would be recognised under the National Health Act by the Commonwealth. 
-! wish to indicate on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that we have no objection to this Bill. I join with  Senator Willesee  in saying that if we opened up the full ramifications of Commonwealth and State financial relations on a Bill of this character we could be here a long time debating it. However, I take some umbrage even at the titles that are appended to such Bills. In this instance it is the States Grants (Special Financial Assistance) Bill. To me this seems to be one of the corner stones on which the whole of the confusion that exists today in Commonwealth and State financial relations rests, the idea that the Commonwealth is making a grant to the States. Of course, the States are only the people, and the people are only the taxpayers who provide the money to the Commonwealth, and when the Commonwealth returns to the States for the people of the States some of the money that it has collected from the people of the States it does not make a grant at all. We have other instances where it is alleged that the Commonwealth makes a loan and then the States get into a situation of such tremendous indebtedness that they can no longer afford to pay the interest on their own money that has been loaned to them by the Commonwealth. In expressing that criticism I do not want to open up all the ramifications of this but I do believe that each time these pieces of legislation come before us we should give some thought as to whether we are getting towards complete confusion when we turn the States into the role of medicants so that they have to come begging for grants. However, we have no objection to this Bill. 
The Democratic Labor Party favours this legislation. I suppose it would be as wrong to go overboard and say that everything in the legislation is good as it would be wrong to damn it with faint praise. This, of course, is a relatively new field. 1 think that mankind has been trying to deal with many of the other difficulties of life, such as poverty, for some centuries, but this is a problem that has. in terms of time, only recently been recognised: and. even when recognised in the beginning, there was little that people thought could be done about it. particularly in relation lo those children whose affliction when they were born seemed to be of a mental character. 1 use the word 'affliction' with some reservation, because I do not know whether it was a good term that was used by  Senator Webster.  I am one of those who subscribe to the idea that no perfect child is born. Each of us is born with afflictions, but in this instance the afflictions a*e obvious, to some extent, and some relief and assistance can be given, lt may be said, too. that the child who ultimately grows to become an apparently normal adult and then becomes an alcoholic was born with an affliction thai, was not recognisable at the time; little recognition was given to it until it was far too late. We should get to the crux of this question. We have come a long way in the last quarter of a century or so on this matter. I. have seen many things in my lifetime, and one causes nic to say to  Senator Cavanagh  that, if he does not recognise the quality of love in life, 1 do. We can see it in this field more than anywhere else. If he asks me to define il, I may have difficulty, but it is the love of parents who I know who have had spastic and even mongol children, and their dedication and refusal to abandon those children to institutions. If honourable senators wanted to go further, I suppose wc would find that our progress in this field was built on love before il was built on any practical expressions of that love. The Nurse Cavells and the Father Damiens went out with little else to assist them into a field that required nol only their personal courage but. in the case of Father Damien, who went amongst the lepers when everyone else had given them up, a pioneering of something that was based wholly and solely upon his love.  His  own knowledge would have warned him of ihe tremendous personal risks involved in dedicating his whole life to thai cause. 
Whilst I would not like to dissect and define Move', if we want examples of it there are plenty in the history of mankind. We have come a long way with this question. 
I was a member of a family in which there was a spastic child, a younger sister to me. That child was loved and she died at the age of 7; but I am not one of those people who subscribe to the theory thai her life was useless. She left behind her many things that perhaps in my own case may have been the beginning of learning at least  some  responsibilities towards the rest of humanity. 
Some of us, of course, live a lifetime and do nol leave that much behind us; yet a child who was born a spastic and died at the age of 7 can be the beginning of erecting a monument that may one day be a credit to mankind. I say that because, being interested in this problem for a lifetime because of that, 1 questioned recently many parents as to how they stand on some of the more modern ideas of curing some of the other alleged problems that beset mankind and whether they would have preferred never to have a spastic child. Invariably, we got from those people who have lived a life of dedication that they would not have avoided the experience and the opportunity for anything in the world. That should lead us, as human beings, to approach with caution some of the slick answers to the great and terrible problems that are sometimes produced - answers which suggest that the way to cure the problem is to destroy it. 
Yes. 1 think that conies very well into this category. I think it is a short-sighted policy because we can now look, at the success in this field not only in this country but in other countries that have led us. The mover of this motion referred to the tremendous impetus that work in this field gained in the United Slates of America because a man was elected President who had had the problem in his own family - if it should be called a problem. 
Compare what has been done and the successes that, have been achieved wilh these people in Australia with what happened during a particular political period in Germany. There this type of problem and other types of problem involving adult people who were mentally ill were handled by destroying the problem. One should proceed with extreme caution in thinking that there are easy ways to solve w'-.at are sometimes loosely, in my view, called the problems of mankind. 
I wonder whether this really is a problem.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to it as a responsibility. Yes, 1 think it is also that, but I think it goes further than that; it is an opportunity as well for mankind to get to grips with something and to endeavour to find solutions, and it can find solutions. My youngest sister was a person not badly afflicted, as 1 recall. I was about 4 or 5 years older than her and had to accept quite a deal of responsibility in the family. I have seen similar children today who have been able to go to special schools where they have been able to develop other parts of the brain to take over the portion of the brain that has been damaged and, by the time they are 14 or 15 years old, they have grown into what we regard as quite normal people. In many instances they are far more normal than the person who has had every opportunity and throws it away through weakness of character, for which he too is not responsible. 
 Yes, that is true, because the damage to the portion of the brain may be in the motor section of it or in some other section that has nothing at all to do with the mental capacity to cope with a good education or anything else. These things were not known 30 years ago. Such children were all regarded as backward or silly and, because nobody tried, there were no successes. 
 That is true. I suppose now we can look back and say that anybody who adopted that attitude was an idiot. That is where we should be careful about our whole mental approach to the problem. It should not be one of sympathy or that we are doing something extraordinary in extending to these young people the opportunity to overcome their particular affliction, because it is not a hand-out from the Government on behalf of the able people who are paying taxes: it is an investment. Many of these people can become highly useful members of the community. 
We should not look upon this measure in a charitable sense. In agreeing to this measure we are accepting this matter as our responsibility. The caring for handicapped children requires a dedication which many of us as normal human beings, unless we have a personal interest in this subject, are incapable of understanding. But once one becomes personally involved in the caring for handicapped children it is a different matter altogether. The character, strength and love which can be developed within a family as a result of a problem such as this is amazing. Mankind should never run away with the idea that all it has to do is set up shiny institutions equipped with chromium instruments in order to solve the physical and mental problems of humanity. Such institutions may contribute to a large degree to the solution of some of the physical aspects of the problem, but in doing so mankind is creating for itself a monster which will ultimately destroy it. 
am wholeheartedly in favour of this legislation because I believe that it is a worthwhile step in the right direction. I do not think it is the millenium and I do not think it is the last word or all which will ever have to be done in relation to this question. This is a new field. I think we will be able to look back with some pride in the future at the fact that in our own generation we have done something, but there is still a great deal more to be done. The Bill will further extend the ambit of responsibility of the Commonwealth to provide certain moneys. Whilst 1 would have some criticism of the action of the Government, 1 think it is attacking the problem in a responsible and intelligent way. I should hate to think that the State institutions would be deprived of anything which is necessary as a result of a shortage of funds, but I should also hate to think that the Commonwealth would approach this opportunity to provide assistance with the idea that all it has to do is provide the institutions and the money. 
I believe that the Government should also encourage those persons who are prepared to provide assistance. I believe that most of these persons will admit that they are prepared to extend this love and dedication and to meet their responsibilities because of a personal interest in the problem. I am sure that  Senator Fitzgerald  will support me when 1 say that so many of them are still interested long after a member of their own family or their own child has passed out of the ambit where they can be assisted or have been assisted to the fullest extent possible and are dedicating themselves to helping others because they have become involved in the problem at (his level. I believe it is essential that such people should be encouraged to provide assistance. They should not be frustrated and torn away from such dedication because of the lack of the necessary financial assistance of governments. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill for the reasons 1 have given, lt supports the legislation not because charily will bc extended to a section of the community which needs it but because we will be giving the community an opportunity to grow and develop into a more worthwhile community which will be lo the well being of each and every one of us. Many a person who is allegedly born normal in the future will owe a great deal to those handicapped children we are assisting at present who some people say were not born normal. The DLP also supports the amendment which has been moved because it believes that the amendment will open up an opportunity for us to acquire greater knowledge of the problem itself, lt will also give us an opportunity to contribute lo the solution of this problem. The DLP sees in the amendment a chance to widen our knowledge of every aspect of the problem and to acquaint other people of the opportunity that they have to assist in the worth while task which lies before humanity in this respect. The DLP hopes that the amendment and the Bill will be carried by the Senate. 
We support the Bill, and we believe that the 
Minister has been properly directed. 1 think there is no need for me to add anything to the comments already made, but rather I will refer to the attitude that we adopt on the amendment. We are not prepared at this stage to support the amendment, because actually it does not eradicate the evil as outlined by  Senator Murphy  at all but merely extends to some extent the sum of money that may be gained, and this still could be, of course, quite inadequate for a person injured in an air crash, for instance. We all know that in the modern type of aircraft the possibility of injury is not as great as the possibility of death, so we could say that in the circumstances all the amendment does in the finish is merely suggest by a more complicated and probably difficult method of negotiation that the Government should set out not to eradicate the wrongness of the principle that in fact there should be a limitation on the amount of damages for an injury but merely to lift it by some figure. This would reflect itself in tie airways' fares, because they would have to pay higher premiums to meet higher demands and, with the greater risk that may be thrown on to an insurance company, there would be an increase in fares. There is nothing to stop an air traveller from insuring quite separately from the insurance automatically taken for him by the airline company that happens to be transporting him. I think that  Senator Murphy  would agree with me when I say that we would be kidding ourselves if we believed that the company was actually paying for the insurance. The premium for the insurance must reflect itself in the fares that the airline charges. Therefore this amendment, if it were carried, would succeed only in transferring the liability to the customer to insure himself for a greater amount than that in which he is involved at the moment. That would be the practical effect of the amendment. 
Let us have a look at what the amendment might do, without receiving any further information than that which we have before us at the moment. If it were attempted - and indeed strongly attempted - to implement  Senator Murphy's  suggestion, to the extent that the Government believed that it had to do what the amendment says it should do, where would it finish, particularly with the one Australian international airline? There would be rare occasions on which somebody who booked to travel internationally by Qantas Airways Ltd travelled on a Qantas aeroplane for more than one section of the journey. This would mean, of course, that Qantas would have to go into all the ramifications of its agreements, even those with internal airlines in other countries. People might fly on a Qantas ticket. They might fly from Athens to Rome on a Greek internal aircraft that happened to be going to Rome. They might finish up travelling on aircraft from Swiss Air, Air France or the Italian airline, although they had booked the travel with Qantas in Australia. We see great ramifications involved in the amendment. 
The Australian Government may have negotiated an international agreement for Qantas while America, which has a far larger population than Australia, may have been able to negotiate a separate agreement because American airlines may be selling thousands of airline tickets a year while Qantas may be selling hundreds of tickets. Probably the ratio is far greater than that. America's economic power in the airline industry may have enabled it to negotiate a separate agreement without destroying its airlines. But as I see it, without some evidence to the contrary, without any expert information coming from the airways I should have thought that Qantas could find itself in a great deal of trouble in offering to Australians the type of service that it wants to offer in competition with other international airlines. I should like to hear Opposition senators on this matter before I made a decision, and we are not able to hear them this afternoon. 
If I thought that we were abrogating the right of Australian airline travellers to receive adequate insurance, I would say all right, the matter is serious enough for us perhaps to contemplate the steps which  Senator Murphy  suggests, but that is not the situation as it exists at the moment. If any of us feel that the coverage which we automatically receive from travelling on an international airline is inadequate there is nothing in the world to prevent us from paying extra premium to insure ourselves against the possibilities of incurring some  injury. This, of course, virtually is all that the amendment would achieve. But instead of our paying the premium ourselves it would be mandatory to pay a higher price for the airline ticket that we purchase, which would include the amount of the premium. 
Everybody will agree with the principles which  Senator Murphy  has outlined, but the amendment seeks only to increase the amount of insurance. Perhaps it makes the position fairer, if one puts it that way, but it does not eradicate the injustice. All that the amendment does is to seek to increase the amount to $52,000. I have seen some of the damages that have been awarded in motor car accident, cases which 1 do not think are comparable with airline accident cases because third party insurance and comprehensive insurance on motor cars are entirely different to airline accident insurance. But even if we adopted the amount of $52,000 which is provided in the amendment, it would not be very much for the type of injuries which one could receive in an airline crash. If one were injured as badly as one usually is in an aeroplane crash, the difference between $30,000 and $52,000 would not mean a great deal. 
I think we all would accept the principles that were outlined by  Senator Murphy.  However, we do not consider that his amendment is a very practical proposition at this time without far more evidence than has been disclosed to us to indicate that it would be possible to negotiate such an agreement without damaging what is a very real Australian asset - our own international airline. We believe that the Bill itself is an absolute necessity. We compliment the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  so early in his career as Minister for giving attention to this matter and bringing down a Bill which, if it does not go as far as  Senator Murphy  wants it to go, at least provides for a situation which is much better than that which exists today. We will support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do the Commonwealth Scrum Laboratories intendto produce and market a recently announced vaccine to control foot-rot in sheep, if so, when will supplies be available. 
I assume the foot-rot vaccine to which the honourable senator refers is the one recently developed by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. 
The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation called for public tenders for commercial development of the vaccine and the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories submitted an application. 
The matter is still under consideration. 
asked the Minister rep resenting the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In view of a reported criticism of the use of multi-dose hypodermic syringes by the Geelong Hospital Pathologist,  Dr Vernon  Pleuckhahn, following two deaths after injections of Hong Kong flu vaccine in 1969, have the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories taken any action to pack such vaccines in single dose disposable syringes. 
All matters relating to vaccination procedures, particularly mass immunisation campaigns, of which the question of the use of single dose vials and disposable syringes is but one aspect, are currently under consideration by the National Health and Medical Research Council. Any recommendations that come from that body will be carefully considered in relation to future policy, by all authorities who are concerned in these matters, including the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has examined the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill. We realise that it brings into line decisions which the Commonwealth has made in association with the State governments. We regret that such legislation is necessary. However, it is inevitable if anything is to be done to try to stabilise a situation that has got completely out of hand. The major sufferers are the people engaged in wheat production which is one of the basic primary industries in Australia. We cannot accept all that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  said in his second reading speech, which was incorporated in the Senate Hansard report, when introducing this Bill. He made statements based less upon logic than, perhaps, a vivid imagination. The Minister said: 
The build-up of stocks and the prospect of further large supplies at a time when world trade in wheat had suffered a serious decline from the record level of 1965-66 meant that the industry was confronted wilh storage and marketing problems such as had never before been encountered. 
That statement is true. But whilst such problems had never before been encountered let us not run away with the idea that they had not been predicted. They had been predicted. 1 deplore the suggestion that people might seek to make political capital out of a crisis in such a basic primary industry as the wheat industry and forget about the interests of the people concerned. We of the Democratic Labor Party have reached the stage of having to say to the Government: 'We are sorry, but we told you so'. In 1966, in record years of wheat production, we predicted that the present situation would develop. We did not have a crystal ball into which we gazed, in a world of make-believe, in order to come to certain conclusions to enable us to give the advice w.e offered not only to the Government but to the industry and Australia at large. We had only what everybody else had - the facts about what was occurring in the industry and in the international market. 
The Democratic Labor Party warned the Government in 1966. It adopted a Federal conference decision that it was necessary at that stage to begin building extra storages for surplus wheat and lo make provision for the things dealt with in this Bill. We suggested at least that in case of drought provision be made for grain to be sold at practical prices to farmers with starving stock. We suggested this course as a means of saving the country from the repercussion of droughts which could occur and, indeed, which did occur. We suggested that this would absorb some of the grain surplus which we predicted would result from the mad development of the industry which was taking place at that time and which was out of ail reason when consideration was given to the problems of future world markets. 
I agree with what  Senator Cant  said about the march held by people engaged in rural industry. I recall that in Melbourne 10,000 people marched to a place which they had wisely selected as a forum. They did not disrupt the life of the city of Melbourne, as happened in the case of another march. The rural marchers reached a place where they could hold a peaceable discussion without causing economic loss to the country. At that place they were addressed by representatives of all the political parties. The marchers who went there had no fixed political thoughts, lt was recognised by the Press, by radio commentators and, far more importantly, by the 10,000 farmers involved, that the only politician who spoke sense to them was  Senator Frank  McManus of the Democratic Labor Party. He was the only  speaker  to receive the plaudits of the Press, the radio news reporters and the farmers themselves.  Senator McManus  did not endeavour to make political capital out of the situation although the Democratic Labor Party had predicted the situation that would develop and perhaps was in a more favourable position to make political capital than any other parry. 
The farmers know their problem. They know that it is an unfortunate problem which has developed to such a stage that extreme measures are necessary to alleviate it, let alone solve it. This Bill endeavours to do that. I want to dispute what the Minister said in another section of his second reading speech. He said: 
Industry leaders were not slow to see that these problems would be compounded unless some positive remedial action were taken without delay. 
I beg to differ. The industry leaders, particularly the Australian Wheat Board, were slow to read the message evident in developments in the wheat industry. They spent their time abusing the Democratic Labor Party for the predictions it was making and for saying that we were afraid of the consequences of the policy of expansion in which they were indulging. Part of today's problem is due to the fact that industry leaders were slow to read the international message as to what was taking place in the wheat industry. I do not say that they deliberately got the wheat growers, big or small, into this position, as could perhaps be construed from the remarks of  Senator Cant.  No-one in Australia would set out deliberately to create the situation that has developed in this industry. 
The Democratic Labor Party could not possibly accept the amendment  Senator Cant  moved. It seeks to establish certain things but he gave us no technical data or other information to substantiate his case for the prices he suggests. The Senate could not come to that decision or express an opinion that the prices set out in his amendment should be adopted. We do not know what will happen in the future on the local or the international market. No-one can predict the requirements.  Senator Cant  must make out a better case than mere criticism of the Government, however much such criticism may be warranted. He must present a case for fixing at this time the prices he suggests. We do not know what will happen on the international market at some future time. We do not know what will happen when we sell part of the tremendous stock of surplus wheat that we now have - that is if we do sell it.  Senator Cant's  amendment would impose an unnecessary restraint on the people now charged with the responsibility of getting the best out of whatever may be offered on the world market or the home market in the future for the benefit of those most concerned with the result. For that reason and without, much more specific and conclusive evidence we cannot accept the amendment. No evidence at all has been presented to indicate that these fixed prices would be the prices at which we could sell the wheat, to begin with, or that they would bring some measure of alleviation to the problems of the wheat growers if it were possible - of course nobody, can say whether it is possible - to obtain, particularly on the international market, the prices that are set out in the amendment. I repeat that for those reasons alone we feel that the amendment should be rejected. 
We would hope that bringing the Commonwealth into line with the States on these propositions that are put forward will alleviate the pressures that exist at the moment. We commend the idea which we advocated 3 or 4 years ago that restraints on the sale of this grain, particularly in times of drought when there is a need to obtain feed for stock, should be removed.  Senator Cant  gave a very emotional description of cattle and sheep around the silos that were stacked with wheat endeavouring to graze on the dust and dirt which was all that remained as a result of the drought. But can he tell us that the prices suggested in his amendment, as opposed to the Government's proposition that the Wheat Board should have some rights to make a decision on this, are prices which the growers of the stock would be able to afford to pay in the circumstances? 
 I know that  Senator Cant  is trying to tell me that this is for the normal home consumption wheat upon which he has set the figure of 51.48. But 1 believe that the Board must have a complete realisation of the requirements, whatever may be the cost to the nation at large of enabling stock to be fed in times of drought when we have tremendous surpluses of grain. I believe that we could have solved the problems of many of the people in both Victoria and Queensland in the last 2 years if there had been a more realistic approach to the problem of feeding stock that were then dying or being sold at prices that were a dead loss to the growers themselves. 
This problem is one that transcends politics. None of us should be trying to score off others politically. Whatever has happened in the past has happened, unfortunately. This country and the people in primary industries are faced with problems of such magnitude that all of us will have to get together, irrespective of political advantage, to retrieve something from the situation and to help the people who are bearing the brunt of a burden which has been contributed to perhaps by national mistakes and by the general world situation in respect of which none of us in this Parliament can point the finger at anybody else and hold him responsible. It is in that spirit that we feel that this legislation should be approached. We feel that this measure - in itself is not a matter of great consequence inasmuch as it merely brings the Commonwealth into line with decisions that have already been reached on a State level in an endeavour in some small way to provide some minor solution to the tremendous problem that exists for people in this industry. For those reasons we will support the Bill. 
This Bill must pass through the Senate tonight because of the circumstances outlined by  Senator Bishop,  but the reasons why it should be passed tonight are also the reasons why this Parliament should have brought before it a Bill which covers the whole ramification of workers compensation throughout the Commonwealth. This will enable the people employed by the Commonwealth to have that to which they are entitled or at least will enable them to receive more of their entitlement than they are now getting. Although we must pass this Bill tonight in order to ensure that seme people will not be denied the benefits contained in it, let us not forget that many other people will be denied eligibility for workers compensation in circumstances which would be provided for by a properly amended new Act which would enable the provisions to match those applicable in many instances in the States. 
I sometimes wonder whether, unless we deal with this question of workers compensation on a national basis through the establishment of a national fund, we will ever know the truth as to what amount of compensation can be paid from the premiums contributed by employers to cover the costs of workers compensation. The premiums increase every lime an increased wage is granted, but in recent years - particularly in the last 15 years - there has been much research in an attempt to reduce the accident rate in industry. This research has proved to be very effective and the accident rate has been reduced although numerically the number of accidents might have increased. That can be explained by the increased work force which brings with it increased premiums for the insurance companies. If the accident rate is reduced and the premiums continue at the same rate, it seems to me to be a logical proposition that there should be at least grounds for a reduction in the premiums or a great expansion of benefits. However, we do not see this pattern developing. 
If we were to investigate the whole situation of workers' compensation throughout the Commonwealth we might be surprised at the profits made by insurance companies which are able to force employers to contribute for workers' compensation for their employees in retailing and industrial enterprises. As one engaged in the retail trade I am able to cast my mind back over the last 10 years and to recall the premiums that I have paid for this purpose. Of all my employees, one lad received a guinea to pay for a tetanus injection after he had been bitten by a dog while on the job and another lad received the cost of an X-ray after he had fallen from a push bike. There has been no claim by any of my 4 senior administrative staff. Throughout suburban shopping centres claims on workers' compensation have been very low, and in view of the amount flowing to insurance companies in premiums there would have to be many accidents in industry to reduce the profits made by the insurance companies to a point at which there was a reasonable balance between premiums received and compensation paid. We are told that these things are worked out actuarily and that in some areas of employment premiums are less than in other areas. But I doubt whether the community at large is receiving in compensation anything like a fair proportion of the premiums that are being paid to insurance companies. However, the Bill must be passed because it will afford benefits to some people in industry who otherwise would be denied the benefits. 
I do not want to enter upon a general dissertation on a Bill which was promised but which has not been brought down in this place. Immediately the terms of the proposed legislation became known we in the Democratic Labor Party were submerged with protests from people who were interested in workers' compensation. My Party is affiliated with a union which has many members employed by the Commonwealth. 
The Federated Clerks Union of Australia. The union was enraged at some of the provisions which it was suggested would be contained in the allegedly improved Act.  1  suggest that there is only one good feature ot it. Although the Government's proposals will not benefit someone who is injured between now and the time when the next legislation is passed, the Government has at least seen fit to delay the introduction of the other measure to enable further investigation.  1  would say to those who are interested in the passing of good Commonwealth workers' compensation legislation that although we have had representations at a personal level from trade unions, some of which are affiliated with my Party and some of which are not, we have heard nothing from the official trade union movement throughout Australia, in view of the situation that exists in 'his chamber we would like it to be known that we would prefer to hear officially from the trade union movement so that we may know its views before considering further amendments to the Act. 
There is little to be gained at this stage by digressing into a discussion of the legislation which has been delayed because none of us knows what form the legislation will take when it is presented to the Parliam mt.  1  hope this will be done immediately the next session begins. We want it to be known that as a political party we consider this to be a matter of great urgency to which the Government should give the highest of priorities when receiving representations and making investigations prior to bringing down legislation to deal with compensation for employees in the Commonwealth service. I could repeat many of the criticisms indulged in by  Senator Bishop  and be repetitive in that respect, but I do not propose to do that. 
I believe that the Commonwealth should lead the States in this field. I suggest that the Government should give serious consideration to this point because the level of workers' compensation is a measuring stick by which we may gauge the progress ot our community and our economy. Before the introduction of workers' compensation people who were injured in the course of their employment received no income with the result that there was a lass of markets, a stultification of industry and a stagnation of an earning capacity on which to pay taxes. The disruption of the economy which ensued has to a large extent been alleviated by the introduction of reasonable workers' compensation provisions. But when I realise the amount that is paid in premiums and the amount that is paid out in benefits - under this Bill the benefit is to be increased to  $12,000 - 1  have in mind also the amounts paid by insurance companies when a breadwinner or wage earner is killed in a motor car accident.. Yet I doubt that the amounts paid in premiums for Motor car insurance would be greater than the amounts paid as premiums for workers' compensation. I do know that many insurance companies have vacated the motor car accident field, and  1  suggest that it is significant that I am not aware of any insurance company wanting to vacate the workers' compensation field. 
I believe that insurance companies have a considerable margin between premiums received and benefits paid under the Commonwealth and State workers compensation legislation.  1  hold the view, which perhaps has no relation to this Bill, that a national workers compensation fund which received premiums throughout the whole of the Commonwealth and distributed the whole of that amount in benefits to people who were injured or killed in the course of their employment would enable the benefits which are now provided by legislation such as this Bill to be doubled without additional premiums being required. 
 I view of the statements that have been made already, I think we should understand what we arc talking about when we discuss this Bill. We propose to vote against it. I have read the speech made by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  1 hold him in high esteem. 1 do not suggest that he would deliberately deceive honourable senators at any time, but I must question some of the statements contained in his second reading speech. If they are accurate at all. they are misleading because they do not convey the true situation as it exists in relation to this legislation.  His  remarks do not convey the attitudes of the Slate Premiers, as he implied that his remarks do. The Minister said: 
Al a special Premiers" Conference held on 18th November 1969 lo consider the position, the Premiers said that the States had ex peeled to receive a total of about S70m in 1969-70 from their receipts duties. About $40m of thi'; revenue was estimated to come from duty on the proceeds of sale of goods - the area that wa* considered most likely to be held invalid. The Premiers estimated that, if the Stales' receipts duties were discontinued altogether, the loss of revenue to  the  States in 1969-70 would be up to $50m. lt was recognised that, if there were a substantial revenue loss and no replacement lax were introduced, the inflationary effects on the economy would be severe. The outcome of the Conference was a request by the Premiers, to which the Commonwealth agreed, that in  the   event of the receipts duty of the States being found invalid in some or all respects, the Commonwealth should introduce legislation, with operation retrospectively to 18th November 1969, to impose a like tax for the benefit of the Slates.  1 have a document that was tabled in the Victorian Legislative Assembly by  Sir Henry  Bolte on 26th February 1970, 3 months after the Premiers, it is suggested, desired the Commonwealth to introduce legislation to take from the Stales the responsibility of collecting the tax that was ruled invalid, such tax then to be imposed by the Commonwealth. I will quote from that document later, lt shows that the Premiers unanimously asked the Commonwealth for the right to impose a State income lax. 1 suggest that while there may have been no deliberate intent to mislead, the statement that for this period the State Premiers had been requesting the Commonwealth to assume the responsibility to which I referred is not a true one. lt was the Commonwealth's suggestion to the States, lt was described hy one Premier as being a kind of blackmail: in other words the States would not get what they are asking and that they would be blackmailed into accepting what the Commonwealth wanted. That is an entirely different position from what  Senator Greenwood  purported to be the position. He suggested that, because the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Parly were not prepared to accept this legislation at this stage, we were trying to make political capital. I shall deal wilh that suggestion later. 1 now deal wilh the history of the tax to show why we of the Democratic Labor Party, irrespective of anybody who may have joined us more recently in our opposition, oppose the legislation. I agree with  Senator Greenwood  that the Labor Opposition in the Queensland Parliament agreed to this form of taxation. Indeed in some States Labor governments introduced this kind of taxation. We were a little surprised, after voicing our objection strongly on every possible occasion during the last 2 years, to find ourselves suddenly joined in our opposition by the Australian Labor Party. A situation has developed in which many people may have presumed, as  Senator Greenwood  suggested, that this tax would be imposed, but they certainly could never have presumed from the statements that have been made by the Democratic Labor Party that we favoured this type of taxation in any shape or form. 
I have read in the newspapers that 1 am alleged to have won an election campaign 2 years ago because 1 campaigned on this question. I remind  Senator Greenwood  that, in moving a motion on Commonwealth-State financial relationships in this chamber on 7th May this year, 1 devoted more than I page of the printed Hansard to exposing the iniquities of this tax. But. in the meantime, for some reason he presumed that we were in favour of it. I cannot be responsible for his presumptions or those of the Prime Ministers  (Mr Gorton).  If they have deceived the Australian people by making presumptions, surely the responsibility is their and not ours. 
This tax emanated from a tax which was not a very serious one and which, as  Senator Georges  suggested, Mount lsa Mines Lid and many other people found various ways of getting around over a long period of time. The Slates had never worried very much that their lax was being avoided until the shocking situation in Commonwealth-Slate financial relationships reduced them to a position of such abject poverty that they had more or less to hunt around the garbage cans of taxation io find some new means of raising a little more revenue. 
 Some States adopted poker machines. They have to accept the responsibility for the privations of the families in which much of the income goes in an improper manner to swell the profits of clubs and lo provide some money for the Stale. Bui that is another issue. Let us stay wilh this receipts lax. 
When the Slates were hunting around the garbage cans of taxation, many suggestions were made. In Victoria the State Premier decided, most unwisely from his point of view, on the eve of a by-election for a province of the Upper House iti which he had a majority of I, that he would make a proposal for Stale income tax. He was immediately threatened by the Commonwealth that any money he raised by such a lax would be deducted from the allocations made by the Commonwealth. When he appealed for some assistance in collecting the amount of Id - this was in the days of pounds, shillings and pence - in the form of an income tax, with the proper allowances for the responsibility that goes with income tax, the Commonwealth was shocked and would have nothing to do with helping him to collect that tax. 
So he had a look at the stamp tax. He tried to tighten is so that fewer people would be escaping. Some amazing situations arose as a result of that. But that is a side issue. The first measures to tighten it were unsuccessful and did not produce anything that was worth the worry that was involved in trying to force people to issue receipts. So, the nature of the tax was then changed. Previously it was a receipts tax payable on the issuance of a receipt. That fundamental was abolished. This is where the States ultimately tripped up before the High Court. Instead of being 3c on a minimum of $10, the tax became lc on $10 or part thereof and the responsibility was thrown on to people exchanging money for goods or anything else either to register and pay in bulk on a quarterly, half-yearly or yearly turnover, or to affix a lc stamp to each receipt they issue. Even if the receipt was not required by the customer, the wholesaler or retailer of the goods had to issue a receipt and keep it. 
So. in the case of the owner of the corner lolly shop selling a 2c chocolate frog to a child who came into his shop, if he was not registered and did not have a number he was obliged to issue a receipt and to affix a lc stamp in respect of the 2c sale. Of course, that was designed to force everybody to pay on a turnover basis because of the cost of doing otherwise. So, the tax ceased to be a receipts tax. I was amazed that our legal eagle,  Senator Greenwood,  was not aware of the circumstances of the High Court judgment which invalidated some sections of the tax. The High Court ruled that it was not a receipts duty; that it was an excise duty on goods produced in Australia for sale within Australia. It is still quite valid in respect of. second hand goods. I believe that it is still quite valid in the wages field and in respect of imported goods. I will have more to say about imported goods in a moment. The area in respect of which it was invalidated was goods produced in Australia for sale within Australia. 
That being the High Court decision and this tax having grown illegally in this manner, the Prime Minister saw fit to say that legislation would be introduced. On 7th May I referred to the fact that about 3 or 4 months before he had said that legislation would be introduced. I referred to the fact that he had not introduced it and reiterated my opposition to this type of tax. How could he expect that such a tax would pass this House of the Parliament? As the High Court said, the Commonwealth has the power to impose an excise, but the States are deliberately prevented from doing so. Why is that so? The reason is that it was recognised right at the very beginning that if the Commonwealth had this power there should not be a duality of taxes on the same thing; that both the States and the Commonwealth should not be imposing excise duty. So the Prime Minister said: Well, we will impose it, but we will give it to the States through the back door. We will beat the Court and the law. We will say that it is not a Commonwealth tax; that it is really a State tax and that we are imposing it for the Stales'. As far as political popularity. to which  Senator Greenwood  referred, is concerned, the Prime Minister said: 'We are nol really imposing this excise duty, although only we can do so. We already have plenty of excise duty on things. We are only doing this for the States'. 
What does this mean in terms of the Bill? I wonder whether the Leader of the Government in the Senate or the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  - the man who suggested in one speech that this turnover tax could be implemented and increased by 10 times - understands what happens in the case of cigarettes, on which there is a very heavy excise duty. As I read the Schedule to this Bill, some things are exempt. I hope that the Leader of the Government will put me right if I am wrong. One of the exemptions in the Schedule is: 
Receipt of money by or on behalf of a public authority from the Commonwealth or a State, being money paid to the authority in pursuance of an appropriation made by the Parliament of the Commonwealth or State of moneys to be paid to that authority. 
If 1 am a retailer of cigarettes and I collect in the price of the cigarettes the excise that ultimately goes to the Commonwealth, are those cigarettes exempt from turnover tax, or are they not?  I  do not know. As I read that exemption, as a layman without any legal knowledge, I suggest that because I am collecting money for the Commonwealth at least the excise part of the price of the packet of cigarettes is not subject to turnover tax. I have put this argument before in respect of sales tax, which is at the rate of 25% on some goods. As a retailer is expected to pay this tax on whatever he has collected, including the 25% sales tax that he has collected for the Commonwealth, and excise is charged on the amount relating to sales tax, would not that be a logical reason why, in the very beginning when the power to levy excise was given to the Commonwealth by the States, it was made mandatory that the States should not also collect excise? Yet, the Prime Minister and the Government of this country wish us, as representatives of the people who are paying the tax, to come along here and to agree to it because the Government has allowed the situation to develop to the stage where, as  Senator Greenwood  says, it is dishonest in that some people have paid the tax thinking that they ultimately will be liable to pay it in spite of the decision of the High Court. 
 This is the new federal legislation. These exemptions, as far as 1 was able to ascertain from copies of the previous State legislation which goes back a long way, did not exist in that State legislation. But they exist in this federal legislation. One of the arguments that 1 have been using against turnover tax is that it applied to sales tax and was therefore a tax upon a tax, may be swept away. But 1 do not think that that is the intention of the legislation - not for one moment - because the Commonwealth realises that it is impossible for any person in business to segregate the amount of excise duty on cigarettes, the amount of sales tax on a certain item or the amount of customs duty on imported articles from the tax that he must pay as turnover tax. The Commonwealth knows that it would be cheaper than paying the labour costs involved ultimately to have a total lax on the total turnover, it was prepared to allow that situation to develop. I believe that that is the intention of the Commonwealth. If that is not its intention and if it proposes that exemptions should be given to all these things, J would ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate when he rises on behalf of the Treasurer who  Senator Greenwood  said is an economic genius because he happened to become the Treasurer of this country to tell me that thai is not the situation. 
Let us examine the statement to which  Senator Greenwood  gave so much credence. This is the statement thai it was recognised that if there was substantial revenue loss and no replacement tax the inflationary effects on the country would be severe. Because the Treasurer said that.  Senator Greenwood  said: 'This is gospel; it is economic fact'. I have heard some peculiar theories of economics in this House. Interest rates rise by 1 % and we are told that that is to prevent inflation. Inflation is the big bad stick which the Government produces to beat everybody into submission, as though none of us understood the workings of the economy of a country. They are not so vastly different from what a housewife must contend with every day in the week. If the Government were to tell the housewife that she was living cheaper as the result of a 1% increase in interest rates, she would laugh at it. She would be right, not the economists who are telling the Government that this action ultimately will prevent inflation. The Government has been increasing interest rates over the last 12 years from 4% to 8%. Inflation becomes worse every time increases are permitted in the interest rate. What marvellous faith and confidence we should have in men who have such illusions. If the level of interest rates rises much higher than it is the economy of this nation will be destroyed. Anyone with any sense or  with  any knowledge of economic history knows that there is a limit to which interest rates can be allowed to rise. Time and again nations have been reduced to bankruptcy because they have not distinguished between where interest rates end and usury begins.  A  rate of interest of 8% is pretty close to usury when it is realised that, in many instances, the securities for the loans obtained are securities that are without question and that  no risk of loss exists whatsoever. The 8% interest becomes the whole income profit on the use of the nation's money. 1 see,  Mr Deputy President,  that you are becoming sensitive. 1 appreciate that my remarks hardly have relation to this Bill. But they relate to a sideline which has something to do with it. 1 did say at the beginning of my speech that I would prove that the statement that this was what the States wanted was not an accurate statement. I have in my hand a document which was tabled in the Legislative Assembly of the Victorian Parliament by  Sir Henty  Bolte on 26th February 1970. I propose to read some extracts from this document to prove my contention that  Senator Greenwood  was completely wrong in his assumption that the States, as represented by their Premiers, favoured this receipts duty tax and that it was at their request that the Commonwealth decided to introduce this legislation. 

 Sir Henry said: 
The statement pui by the Premiers set out firstly to prove the point that all States were in acute financial difficulties. This, of course, had been said before, but it needed saying again and it needed documentation, because for years the cogent and real arguments of the States had been brushed aside by the Commonwealth saying that there was no problem. You can never satisfy the States; and you can't believe them, the Commonwealth kept saying. Fortunately, this can no longer be said. There is a problem. 
He went on to say. 
The facts are quite straightforward and don't need elaboration. The document is there to be read - it speaks for itself. Without exaggeration or embellishment it shows on one hand the States faced with the heavy financial obligation to caro' out their constitutional responsibilities, carrying the whole burden of the national debt, and going further and further into debt while the Commonwealth not only gets out of the debt, but builds up vast interest earning investments, paying  all  the cost of Government monetary policy of rising interest rates . . . 
That is the statement by the Premier of Victoria. But the most relevant part of his statement read: 
What should be done? The statement gave the unanimous view of the Premiers of  all  States on this. It is  a  simple answer. It is  an  answer dictated by the force of events and the facts of life. The States must once again have access to income tax. 
Is there any question of turnover tax?  Sir Henry  Bolte says: 
The States must once again have access to income tax. It is the only form of taxation which will solve the problem, and it is the only form of tax with adequate growth which is constitutionally available to the States. This has been underlined forcibly by the recent High Court judgment on receipt duties. 
That is the atmosphere in which the Premiers approached the Commonwealth. That, is what they asked for. It is not what they got. It is not what the Premier of Victoria is prepared to say they were blackmailed into accepting in the final analysis. The argument should not be put before this Parliament that the legislation produced here comes at the will and the desire of the States. At least the facts should be shown. If the Commonwealth felt this was the only way to deal with the situation, the Commonwealth should say that that is so, but this action was nol what the Premiers requested the Commonwealth to do.  Sir Henry  Bolte went on to say: 
The return of income tax to the States is absolutely essential to the solving of the financial problems of the States. The Premiers do not seek to return to the pre-war system of conflict and confusion wilh different tax laws in every State and in the Commonwealth. 
He went on to show how income tax powers could be returned to the States. He concluded by saying: 
The Cabinet had considered the submissions of the Premiers. It had rejected them. 
He gives the reasons why the Prime Minister rejected the suggestions of the Premiers of the States. Can we accept the argument of  Senator Greenwood  that all we have before us is an absolute agreement that has been all lovey-dovey since 19th November 1969, when on 26th February of this year the Premiers were fighting the Prime Minister to have returned to them the capacity to collect at least some income tax in some shape or form so that they could gain the advantage of the growth rate of taxation in our community?  Sir Henry  Bolte gave as his own opinion in this document: 
If the 6 Premiers have any regard for the sovereignty of their States I think that they have to remind themselves that they are being sold out. We are being sold out for all time. We have put up a submission which has been rejected out of hand. A lot of the comments which have been made about it are not factual. 
We wanted access to income tax. It is perfectly obvious to me that when 6 Premiers want access to income tax and the Federal Government rejects it, the States' claim must be the right one. We want it and you do nol want to give it to us. That would prove conclusively to me that it must be the one at risk. It is the only growth tax in this country. 
I suggest that in the face of this evidence it is ridiculous to come here and suggest to us that there was an agreement as far back as November 1969 between the Commonwealth and the States that the Commonwealth would collect through the back door what the High Court had ruled the States could not collect through the front door.  Sir Henry  concluded by saying: 
Our position as Government remains clear. We remain unshaken in our belief  that  if  the  States and the State Governments and the State Parliaments are lo survive, the Stales must have access to a growth lax. 
He persistently referred to income tax as a growth tax. When the High Court has described at least 50% of this hotch-potch turnover tax as an excise tax, what right has the Commonwealth to call these measures receipts duty Bills? ls the Government trying to deceive the people? What are some of the fantastic and foolish results of this form of taxation?  I  do not propose te reiterate the things that 1 have referred to in this chamber before, such as the cumulative effect of each process of production and distribution being subject to this turnover tax. But let me turn to the criticism by the Melbourne 'Age" when the tax was first introduced in Victoria on 14th September 1968. This will give some idea of the silly legal aspects of the legislation.  Senator Greenwood  says that anybody like myself who wants to protect the taxpayers is merely trying to gain cheap political advantage but 1 am sure that he, as a legal gentleman, would be out after tax offenders to haul them before the courts and extract from them the penalties due for the evasion of tax. The 'Age' hud this to say: 
Let us examine  the  persons affected by this. Payment of housekeeping allowances and the children's pocket money is not exempted under the provisions of  the  schedule. 'I here is an exemption in the case of a receipt for a periodical payment made by way of salary or wages at a rate not exceeding $20 per week. The little lady no doubt feels (hal she earns wages, but in lau'  the  payment of a housekeeping allowance cannot be regarded as the payment of salary or wages. Therefore there is no room to doubt  that  when the husband pays over housekeeping to his wife, she receives money and is bound lo write out a document acknowledging the receipt, to stamp it with appropriate duty, and. if her husband docs not want the receipt, she must keep it for three years. 
The husband will have to wash the dishes because by the time the wife has done her bookkeeping she will not have sufficient time to do her housework - 
If she does not do that then she has neglected or evaded payment, and under section 17(3.) she is liable not only to the penalty fixed (a maximum of (100 fine under section 53), but also she might be compelled to pay to Queen Elizabeth damages being double to the amount of duly evaded. 
The "Agc' went on to quote specific amounts but 1 suggest thai honourable senators will have realised the point  I  am making. But what about junior! He receives 20c a week pocket money to spend at the school tuckshop and he too must give a receipt to Dad, or if Dad does noi want it, junior must retain the receipt for the next 3 years because he has nol got a number. The poor Utile fellow would nol have registered himself to obtain a number for the purposes of avoiding paying receipts tax on his turnover. He would be caught. Perhaps these seem foolish examples. To prevent stamp tax evasion provision was made to cover people who wanted to transfer their business operations abroad and interstate. Legally this picked up returned servicemen from Vietnam who cabled money home to their wives. The wives would have to pay turnover tax on that money. 
Debate interrupted. 
Silting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before proceeding with the theme that I was dealing with prior to the suspension of the sitting let me revert to a statement  I  made regarding item 10 of the Schedule relating to exemptions. By mistake  I  read the word 'from' as the word 'for'. My attention was drawn to that during the suspension of the sitting.  I  might say that this removes any shadow of doubt that the excise duty that is collected on cigarettes, and the sales tax and other taxes concerned in the retailing of goods in particular are not exempt in any way at all from this turnover tax imposed by the Commonwealth. Item 10 relates to the receipt of money by or on behalf of a public authority from the Commonwealth or a State which means that money that is paid by the Commonwealth or a State to any public authority is exempt. But, of course, money that is collected by businessmen, merchants and traders on behalf of the Commonwealth is not exempt, which makes the position even more anomalous than I had first supposed that it might be. I had thought that the Commonwealth was trying to write some measure of justice into the Schedule whereas it becomes perfectly obvious that it is quite prepared to collect the excise on cigarettes and beer, the sales tax that is paid upon school requisites and the turnover tax as well on behalf of the States. 
Referring to the absurd anomalies that develop out of this tax I have one more classic case to put before the Senate. Let us consider the case of the humble newsboy who sells newspapers on the corner of the street. Many of these lads work on a commission basis and buy from the newsagents the papers that they sell. On the average one could say that they buy a 5c paper for 4c. As he is a newsboy and not perhaps au fait with the ramifications of the Stamp Tax Act that operates in his State he would not be aware that if he operates in Victoria he should immediately issue to each person who purchases a newspaper from him on the corner a receipt  for  the 5c. 
There is  Dot  a minimum amount at all'. A lc tax is payable on any amount up to SIO.  Senator Greenwood  himself takes umbrage at the fact that there should be such a qualification in a tax measure such as this. There is no minimum. There used to be a minimum of SIO but that has been abolished. Now the rate of tax is lc per SIO or part thereof and the 5c sale of a newspaper is a part of $10. As a newsboy gets lc profit and is liable to pay lc tax  on  the sale he does not finish up very well off, does he? Being a legal man  Senator Greenwood  would, of course, protest that the full measure of the law should be exerted against the newsboys in Victoria, who have been working on a commission basis, for not paying their taxes to the State as is their due. We cannot have it both ways. That is the law. I have given that example to show the complete ridiculousness of the anomalies that can creep into a law that has been made, not sensibly, sanely and deliberately but with a sense of desperation because the Commonwealth has refused to treat with the States on the question of this receipts duty tax. 
To sum up the case that I have made against this tax let me remind honourable senators that we are now being asked, under the subterfuge of the urgent need for the money by the States - something of which we have all1 been aware for the last 5 years - to pass into Federal legislation an anomalous form of taxation that is evil in its potential because, if carried to the limits suggested by the Federal Treasurer and increased tenfold, it would wreck the economy of this nation. It is inadequate in its achievement because the Premiers of all the States are still complaining that it does not contain the growth factor which they desire. The only way to provide for the growth factor is to increase the amount of the tax which shall be charged. If it can now be legally collected by the Commonwealth that can easily be done by increasing the amount once we endorse the evil principles that are involved in this legislation. Not one of the 6 Premiers who met the Prime Minister in February of this year asked him to implement legislation to make this tax a legal tax to be gathered by the Commonwealth on behalf of the States. The Premiers signed their names to a document asking him to give them the right to implement a State income tax. 
If the Prime Minister did so, then the Premier of Victoria did not in a document which he issued. If the honourable senator had been here when I put my case he would have seen that the Premier of Victoria claimed quite clearly that the 6 Premiers signed their names to a document which said that they asked the Prime Minister for State income tax. 
I wish that  Senator Greenwood  had been here while I was speaking for the half hour before the suspension of the silting. If he had been he would perhaps be more conversant with the case. I find that my time is running out. Whilst I would love to engage in an exchange of words across the chamber 1 feel that I would be imposing too much upon the good will and the good nature of the rest of the Senate. I feel thai I have made a case against this form of taxation and have shown that this Federal Parliament should never try to steal in through the back door a lax that has been denied by the High Court to the States, and then unjustly impose it upon the people of the Commonwealth. 
The Democratic Labor Party amendment is a simple one. I think the Opposition and the Government understand it. I do not propose to read it. If carried, it will mean that the matter on the notice paper in the name of  Senator McManus,  to which amendments have been moved, will be decided before the matter raised by  Senator Murphy  is decided. 
Sitting suspended from  6.1  to  8  p.m. 
 The issue which is before the Senate is a rather simple one, although the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  would wish to complicate it tremendously if he could get his way. I do not propose to speak at great length. The amendment which has been moved by  Senator Byrne  to the motion by  Senator Wright  that the resumption  of  the debate be an order of the day for the next day of sitting would, if passed by the Senate, result in the bringing on for debate of a matter which is already before the Senate. I refer to the motion which was moved at the beginning of this session of the Parliament by  Senator McManus  on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that a royal commission be appointed to inquire into the present conditions and future prospects of primary industry in Australia. 
In the debate which ensued .the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  on behalf of the Government, " which has a different view about how to handle (he problems in our rural industries although it admits that they exist, moved an amendment to the proposition put forward by  Senator McManus.  The Australian Labor Party foreshadowed at that time that it would move a further amendment. If the proposition which  Senator Byrne  has put forward today were to be accepted by the Senate it would mean that continuation of the debate on the proposition put forward earlier in the session by  Senator McManus  would be given priority over any other General Business. 
The Leader of ihe Opposition, in his enthusiasm, wants to do something which is entirely different. Of course, he is entitled to put forward any proposition he wants. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition has come to the same conclusion as the Democratic Labor Party, namely, that the proposition which the Opposition foreshadowed early in the session was futile and would not accomplish anything. He now wishes to abandon that proposition and substitute an entirely different one which he has thought about since. 
 The proposition put forward by the Democratic Labor : Party early in the session was not defeated. It has not been voted upon, lt is still on the notice paper. I would point out to the Leader of the Opposition that the Australian Labor Party's foreshadowed amendment would be a part of the debate which would take place if  Senator Byrne's  amendment were to be carried. However, the Labor Party can withdraw it if it is of the opinion, as it is now apparent, that its proposition is futile and would not accomplish anything. The Leader of the Opposition may think that he has a better proposition. He has a right to put it to the Senate. However, it must take its place in the order of business. The Leader of the Opposition wants his proposition given priority over the proposition of the Democratic Labor Party which has been before the Senate ever since the beginning of this session. The honourable senator is attempting to interject. We have listened to him all afternoon. It is a change for honourable senators to hear me speaking. 
It is not the Senate's fault if the Labor Party does not know where it is going on this issue. Regardless of what may have been said by the Leader of the Opposition about the Party to which I belong and the sensitivity of its members, at least I belong to a national party. I do not belong to a party - although the Leader of the Opposition does - which no longer has a branch in my own State of Victoira. I can understand how sensitive he is on this subject. I hope he will forgive me for saying that the proposal which was put forward by the Labor Party today was put forward with the imminent Senate election in mind. At least the Democratic Labor Party can say that its proposition was put forward long before it was known that an election was to be held. The people of Australia have had plenty of time to forget about its proposition. The Democratic Labor Parly's proposition was put forward with a view to assisting the farmers. It is quite obvious that the Labor Party is trying to draw attention away from the obvious sorry state of its own party. I do not have any objection to it directing attention away from its private affairs. The Labor Party is entitled to do so. it is entitled to adopt these political tactics. But when it is in an embarrassing situation it should not interfere with what the Senate can constructively do. Tt should not interfere with the Senate's attempt to help the farmers of our community. 
The Democratic Labour Party's proposition was put forward by  Senator McManus,  who is the only man in the State of Victoria to be recognised by the farmers as being really interested in their problems. He was present when the farmers conducted a protest march.  Senator McManus  is the man the farmers trust. He has won their admiration because of his genuine interest in their problems. They know that he is not interested only in making political capital out of the sufferings of people who live in rural areas. 
The Democratic Labor Party is not afraid, lt is quite happy to go ahead with its proposition. 
All the Labor Parly has to do is vote for the proposition which  Senator Byrne  has put forward. If it is carried it will mean that if there is General Business tomorrow the Democratic Labor Party will be in a position to control the business sheet. One of the items which it has for discussion during General Business relates to the defence of Australia. I give the Leader of the Opposition a guarantee now that the Democratic Labor Party will ask for this item to be removed from the top of the list in order to give priority to the proposition of  Senator McManus. 
The Leader of the Opposition has, byhis interjections, helped me to make my speech. At least he is not at the back of the chamber at present, which is where heseems tobe when most of the critical matters are being considered. 
The Leader of the Opposition is imposing conditions. My Party is concerned only with helping the farmers of Australia. It is not agreeable to the proposition which the Labor Party foreshadowed 3 or 4 months ago being replaced by the proposition it has put forward today and receiving priority over the DLP's proposition. The Labor Party is still free to pursue the amendment which it foreshadowed. There is nothing to stop it doing so. 
The Labor Party does not know where it is. I have tremendous sympathy for its supporters for the situation in which they find themselves at the moment. Why, their Leader in this chamber went to Victoria during the recent State election and committed himself to the people who are now on the outer in his Party. Is it any wonder he is trying so hard tonight to get back on the inner. He has already committed himself to people who no longer seem to be in favour in the Labor Party. In fact, some of them seem to be in doubt as to whether they are in the Labor Party at all. [ fail to understand how anybody in Victoria can claim to be in the Labor Party because there is no longer a Labor Party in Victoria. It has been destroyed. I do not think that it was much of a political party anyway. However, as I am outside of itI do not think that anybody will pay very much attention to my opinion. It now seems - most of the members of the Federal Executive of the Labor Party would appear to agree with me - that a few of the fellows in the Democratic Labor Party who have been telling them the facts of life for the last 15 years were right all the time. 
Yes. The decision which was reached a few weeks ago would appear to indicate that these people now believe that the Democratic Labor Party was right all along. However, I am getting away from the issue which is before us. I would hate to drag in extraneous matters in discussing a matter as important as this one. The simple fact is that all the Senate has to do is vote for the proposition which has been put forward by  Senator Byrne.  This proposition would be carried if the Leader of the Opposition had the courage to put his vote where his mouth has been all afternoon. The amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  was that the resumption of the debate on the motion moved by  Senator O'Byrne  be not dealt with until the decision of the Senate is taken on Order of the Day No. 2 which stands in the name of  Senator McManus.  Order of the Day No. 2 is. of course, the proposition put forward by  Senator McManus  for a royal commission to examine all aspects of the rural industry. All the experts which the Leader of the Opposition or anybody else can think of could be called to give evidence.In this way we could get down to the solid core of how the nation can do its duty for its rural industries. All the honourable senator has to do is to vote for that proposition. I give him an unqualified guarantee that when general business comes on tomorrow night we will ask that our item which heads the list will be taken out of its sequence and this matter advanced to the head of the Notice Paper. 
The honourable senator has only to support us to carry that. Then we will hear discussed not only the DL P proposition which may or may not be in the considered opinion of this House the better proposition but also the amendment which the Government moved at that time for the establishment of the committees which it thought could handle the situation better than a royal commission. An amendment to the amendment was foreshadowed by the Labor Party which since then has changed its mind. There is nothing wrong with honourable members opposite changing their minds. They saw that their original proposition was hopeless. They can bring their proposition forward as an amend- ment to the proposition which is before the Chair. We can obtain a decision from this Senate as to what it believes is the best way to help the rural community of this country. 
Ibelieve  Senator Byrne's  proposition is a simple one. 1 do not think it should be complicated by the amendment which the Leader of the Opposition in his enthusiasm moved. I am sure that if he had thought about the previous debate he would not have had the temerity even to suggest that this House should tack on to a proposition such as this the amendment which he has tried to tack on to it tonight. I suggest that he should abandon that course and support us in this vote. We will carry out the guarantees which we have given to him and give him the debate he desires. I commend  Senator Byrne's  resolution to the Senate. 
Motion (by  Senator Withers)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
I would not have entered this discussion to indicate the point of view of the Australian Democratic Labour Party had I not considered it necessary to do so. We have listened to some very logical argument and to some very sanctimonious nonsense about sitting here next week. The fact of life is that an election campaign will begin tomorrow night. One Party is opening its campaign then. Let us not hear any more sanctimonious nonsense. If we are to believe the logical and sincere words uttered by  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Poyser,  they would not desire to go to the hustings and place their opponents at an unfair disadvantage. Yet if we accept at face value their words about sitting here next week and if they continue to support the propositions expounded here tonight, we know only too well that that is the precise situation that must develop. 
The Democratic Labour Party does not seek pairs from the Opposition or from the Government. We realise the political impracticability of this. 
Anybody who is a practical politican, unlike  Senator Georges  who is wandering in some wilderness of his own, realises that it is a practical impossibility for us to get pairs. To prove their sincerity, those honourable senators who speak of sitting here next week should say that no pairs will be granted and that nobody will be out on the hustings next week. They should say also that members of Parliament in the other place who represent certain parties will not be out on the hustings either. If this were to happen then all of us would go to the barrier for the election on a fair and even basis. If this is not the case then those honourable senators are using the procedures of this Parliament to place a smaller party at a disadvantage.  Senator Cavanagh  referred to discussions which were to take place, in his belief, between two Party leaders. I hope his omission of the third Party leader is not a significant mistake. I hope he does not believe that minorities are not worth bothering about. 
If you believe in the principle of minorities then you cannot make selections. You either believe in the principle or you do not.  Senator Cavanagh  ought to be very careful.  His  slip is beginning to show.  Senator Cavanagh  piously said that he believes in the principle of parties going to the barrier for an election campaign on an even basis. Either he believes in that principle or he does not. If he does not, he should say so. If that is the case then he does not agree with  Senator Poyser's  belief about the ruthless use of numbers in the Parliament. 
I am a practical politician. In my early days in politics I sat at the foot of one of the most practical politicians in this country. I know the numbers game as well as anybody else. If we read the Hansard reports of this Parliament or those of any State Parliament we find that at this stage of the sittings of a Parliament the same situation always has developed. The Government parties, the Australian Labor Party and my Party have used the numbers when they have had them. The practice always has been referred to piously by those who did not have the numbers at the time as being a very awful and bad thing to do in politics. I dismiss that argument. It is produced always by those who do not have the numbers. Apparently discussions have taken place between the Whips of the various parties. My Party has been fully informed by its Whip. He talks to other members of his Party. If that is not the situation in the other parties, that is not our fault. If there is a proposition to the effect that Parliament will continue to sit once the election campaign begins and that the four parliamentary representatives of my Party will be required to sit here while members of the Government parties and the Opposition, both here and in the other place, are released from attendance through the granting of pairs, my Party will give serious consideration to this hypocritical discussion. If honourable senators mean what they have said then this would be a hypocritical discussion. 
1  present from 532 citizens of the Commonwealth the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes. 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency arc contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian gallup poll, published in the Melbourne Herald' 14th November, 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has examined the proposal submitted by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  We would have preferred a broader and far more responsible approach to such a subject. However, we feel that there is room to criticise the Government for its failure to prevent some unjustified price increases.  Senator Murphy  placed a certain construction upon his proposal and suggested that it referred in some way to the Commonwealth Trade Practices Act and the States' co-operation or lack of co-operation in that field. However there is nothing in the proposal itself Vo suggest this, lt is an argument that he produced to substantiate his motion. In our opinion he failed to draw attention to the much more responsible approach that there should be to increased prices. Far more importantly to the Australian community, he did not mention the increased costs which lead to price increases. 
We cannot accept the argument presented by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  This matter has nothing at all to do with the recent income tax remissions contained in the Budget. How those remissions could be claimed, in any shape or form, to have anything to do with controlling prices or costs is beyond our understanding. We believe that the people injured by the inflating cost structure and the inflating price structure in Australia are those who are not referred to in the tables quoted by the Minister. He referred to the average earners and so on. I am referring to the pensioners and superannuitants who are on fixed incomes. Then there is a large section of our community engaged in rural industries who are not earners at the moment; many of them are losing money. They are engaged in running farms in which all their capital is tied up, probably at inflated prices. These people were ignored completely in the Minister's defence, almost as though their problems do not exist. 
The Democratic Labor Party, being a responsible political organisation, is not just frying to make political capital out of the situation that exists at the moment. It is trying to get to the grass roots of the problem and to find out what can be done to assist the people in those sections of the community most damaged by the present situation. I do not know that a rigorous implementation by the States of complementary legislation to the Commonwealth legislation on restrictive trade practices would alter greatly the circumstances of the pensioners or the people in primary industry - the 2 sections of our community that are suffering most today. 
The reduction of taxation mentioned by the Minister could bc construed by anybody who studies economics at all as being a slightly inflationary measure, as it places into the hands of the people who already have money - if they were not reasonably prosperous people with reasonable spending opportunities they would not be paying the taxation rates prescribed for middle income groups - more money to compete for the commodities that are on offer on the market with the people on restricted incomes, whether it be because they are on pensions or because they are losing money, on their primary production units. Therefore, the reduction of taxation cannot be construed as an anti-inflationary move at all. 
Time and again the Government - fallaciously, in my view - has accepted an economic concept that a persistent increase in interest rates offers in some way a long range solution to the inflationary tendency in the community. It is true that most economists would agree that some immediate increase in interest rates at a particular time may curtail the desire to borrow temporarily, until the community adjusts to the Increase. But, to my knowledge, no economist has ever agreed that over a period of time, such as that during which this Government apparently has been accepting advice from its financial advisers that it should consistently and persistently increase interest rates, such increases will have a restrictive effect upon inflation in any way all. On the contrary, such increases have the opposite effect because they in themselves are inflationary. They increase costs and they increase prices. 
 The experience of the last six months takes account of the short range prospect. The honourable senator will recall that I interjected during the Minister's speech. First of all the Minister said that there had been a drop in prices. Then, when he read the figures, all he could prove from the statistics produced was that the rate of increase in prices had been temporarily not stopped completely but reduced slightly. 

 Senator Greenwood will find, if he studies what has happened the last 5 or 6 times the Government has allowed interest rates to increase until they have gone from less than 4 per cent to 8 per cent, that after the initial period of slowing clown the increase takes up again at the original rate; in fact, it goes higher because it is working on a higher interest rate basis. Surely  Senator Greenwood  must know that a person cannot have the same costs when his capital, borrowings and everything of a financial nature in relation to production are based on an interest rate of 8 per cent whereas once they were based on an interest rate of 4 per cent. 
Let  Senator Greenwood  look at the stock market index if he disbelieves this is an economic argument. Today the capital value of shares, particularly industrial shares, is depressed because industrial enterprises are finding it difficult to produce a profit rate even comparable with the rates of interest that are being offered on capital for ordinary lending purposes where an 8 per cent return is absolutely guaranteed. Most industrial enterprises do not produce a rate of return on capital invested of more than 7 per cent. Today it is easy for a person to sell his shares in an industrial enterprise and go into the busi ness of lending money at 8 per cent. Yet the increase in interest rates is supposed to be some deterrent to the inflationary tendency in the community. 
I suggest that those who accept that proposition are not thinking about economics themselves but are taking a prescription from somebody else. Those who know the banking industry of this country recognise that with the interest rate at 8 per cent they are in a position to make vastly greater profits than they were able to make when 4 per cent was the general rate of interest. If Government senators can answer that argument, i will be very pleased to learn. We members of the Democratic Labor Party believe that these problems are tremendous problems that require the application of the minds of all members of our community and that some prearranged prescription from somebody, which is supposed to be a cure-all, should be examined very carefully before it is accepted by any of us. 
We reject the idea which the Government has put forward and which  Senator Sim  mentioned, namely, that the sole reasons for inflation are the stronger pressure of demand for products and the higher ratio of employment, lt is suggested that they are the 2 major causes of inflation. 1 know that it is conceded by economists that those factors can have an inflationary effect. But there is no reason why we as sensible people should accept that as inevitable any more than in the field of medicine we should accept the idea that bad air is the cause of typhoid fever or any of the other ideas that once were accepted without question by mankind as to the causes of his physical complaints. Our economic complaints need noi necessarily be caused by a high ratio of employment in the community. That must be the objective of every decent minded Australian, whatever his politics may be, if he wants to see a better Australia and to give a better life to all members of this community. 
That brings me to the limitations of the matter of urgency when it refers to unjustified price increases caused by price rigging and other harmful practices', forgetting all about costs, lt does not set out at all to say what the harmful factors are or can be. lt is true that the ones mentioned by  Senator Murphy  can have an effect. I do not propose to reiterate them. But what we must decide if we are sincere and responsible is: Are they any more harmful in the cost structure or in the price structure than the unauthorised forsaking of work, which is advocated by  Senator Murphy  and his colleagues in the Australian Labor Party, for the purposes of moratoriums and unauthorised strikes in a community in which we have an industrial arbitration system and in which strikes should be a rarity and not an every day occurrence? 
I, as an industrialist and a former trade union official, appreciate that there are times and circumstances in which labour may be forced to deny management its services in order to obtain justice. But is it and was it a principle of trade unionism that a person should deny management his services for a political reason in a politically inspired strike or a stoppage when, before he stops, he announces that the stoppage will last for only 24 hours or 2 days, so that it becomes merely a terrorist activity in the industrial world? That is the very thing against which people are fighting for their liberty and freedom in many countries today and the sort of activity that everybody condemns when it is applied to international airlines and somebody wants to hijack an aircraft and use it as a terrorist gesture against the rest of the community in order to gain his ends no matter what happens. 
What difference in principle is there between that ami the unauthorised stoppage of industry for half a day or a day for the purpose of labour blackmailing by terrorist activities the rest of the community into conceding a demand, whether or not it can prove that the demand is justified? Very often the demand by  a  union is not of an industrial nature but is of a political character, a matter sponsored by the trade union officials rather than by union members who give loyalty to their organisation and find often that that loyalty is prostituted in the interests of international politics. 
We believe that these things should be considered when thought is given to harmful factors which can cause costs and prices to increase. We, like other responsible people in the community today, are trying our utmost, exercising our political knowledge and experience, to gain knowledge throughout the country so that we may offer to people in primary industry some help in solving the problems which affect them so tremendously. Nobody has an easy solution of these problems. If anyone has a real interest in the base problems confronting the farmers, let him talk to them, other than politically, and he will find that most of them do not have an answer. Experts throughout the world do not seem to know why at this stage when we have tremendous surpluses of primary products we are unable to find markets for those products among the people who obviously need them but have not the international purchasing power to be able to buy them. The Democratic Labor Party has proposed in this place that a royal commission be set up to find a solution to some of these basic problems as part of a long range programme to help primary industries. We hope that our proposal will be considered far more seriously and responsibly by all honourable senators, and not merely in a political context. We are among those who recognise that because of advanced technology a reduction of hours could perhaps soon be justified. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I arn wondering .whether we are making a serious attempt to conclude the sitting of the Senate for the election campaign because, even though we are all in favour of measures such as the Loan (Housing) Bill, honourable senators talk about completely unrelated matters which happen to be in a field similar to that in which the Bill operates. This is a money Bill, which seeks to provide loan moneys to the States for the purpose of State housing projects. 
The business of the State housing authorities and the types, the qualities and the quantities of the houses are totally and entirely in the hands of the States and have nothing to do with the Commonwealth. It is unfortunate that the. Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  in her second reading speech, offended by referring to the housing of servicemen. She tried to build up an atmosphere of munificence around the lending of this money, suggesting that the Government was giving something to somebody and was conferring a tremendous blessing on the States. So narrow are the thoughts of members of the Opposition on the subject that they fell for the joke.  Senator Poyser's  concluding words clearly illustrated that he was led astray.  His  speech was a generalisation on housing, on the type and quality of houses and on everything else in general. He said to the Minister: 'It is your money'. Whoever heard anything so ridiculous in his life? The money is provided by the taxpayers. The Commonwealth channels it back to the States for the Commonwealth's purposes. 
Yes, on loan. By interjection the honourable senator is now dealing with the Bill. Having spoken for 1 hour and having ignored the Bill, he is dealing with it nOw by way of interjection. He said that an important feature of the Bill was that the Government was providing money to the States at an interest rate of 1 per cent per annum less than the long term bond rate. When introducing the Bill the Minister spoke as though the Government out of the goodness of its heart, was conferring some charity or some great blessing upon the States. Our criticism should be of the spirit in which the Bill was presented. Of course the States are granted whatever they are prepared to request and think that they can manage, within the terms of their Budgets, for State housing purposes. Why is the money provided by' the Commonwealth? It is provided by the Commonwealth because the Commonwealth knows full well that unless the building industry is stimulated and unless the States, which annually are starved of necessary resources, receive this money there will be no flow back to the Commonwealth of the necessary income tax that is paid by everybody who has anything to do with housing. In other words, the whole economy would flag and the Commonwealth would be in tremendous trouble if it did not provide this money. It adopts a pose of great generosity and of conferring a blessing on the States by making this money available at a fractionally reduced interest rate when it knows full well that the moment the money is made available for housing there flows back into the Commonwealth's coffers a thousand times what it is lending to the States. 
Part of the trouble that exists between the Commonwealth and the States today in relation to financial matters is that the Commonwealth is not facing up to the true picture. I do not know whether the Government knows this or whether it takes its advice from public servants and says: 'We are being generous to the States? I tell the Minister that the Government is not being generous. It is fulfilling the necessary Commonwealth purpose. If it did not fulfil that purpose it would be a darn sight worse off financially. If the Commonwealth does not know that, it should consult its financial experts on the real issues and not on the superficial issues. 
The Bill has nothing at all to do with the types, the quality and the quantity of houses that the States can provide. I do not know whether the Commonwealth has the power to interfere. Certainly it could set up a committee of inquiry of some kind to advise on what is the ideal situation. Probably all of us know the ideal situation. Whether it is applicable to a metropolis such as Melbourne or Sydney, which have already become far too widespread for the provision of normal services at an economic rate, is another matter. Sometimes these things become a selection not of what is ideal and not of what all of us would like. If we live in a suburban home - and I do - does not that clearly prove that that is what we think is the best? Of course it does. Whether that is practicable and whether a committee would decide that this is the best way to solve the problems, particularly in Melbourne and Sydney, associated with the provision of suburban dwellings in cities that have spread far and wide and that already are too big for the size and balance of population in the rest of this vast continent is totally unrelated to the Bill. 
The Bill is a short one. It is almost a machinery Bill. It certainly does not justify the Government's saying in relation to its handling of the taxpayers money - not its money - that it is giving away the money when it is lending the money to the States at a fractionally reduced rate of interest, knowing full well that when the loans for housing, are made available there will be development within the States and that because of all the ramifications of the building industry there will flow back into the Commonwealth's coffers a return one hundred times the size of the gesture it is allegedly making to the States. 
Those are my criticisms. I do not criticise the contents of the Bill but the misleading spirit and the boastful manner in which the Government has claimed that it is doing far more than it should be doing and that it is tremendously generous to those terrible people in the States, lt is the taxpayers' money, not the Commonwealth Government's money. My criticism is not of the Bill, The Minister might explain some things to me. I am a little puzzled as to why a populous State such as Queensland, which is so much larger than South Australia and Western Australia, should have requested such a modest sum. Perhaps Queensland is awake to the financial joke that is contained in this type of arrangement that has had to be forced on the States by the Commonwealth because of its dominating tax position and because the Slates have no access to any of the growth taxes which the Commonwealth raises. I hope, as everybody else does, because the matter is of paramount importance to the whole economy, that home building in the States will continue at as high a rate as possible. 1 do not know whether it would be adequate for the whole of the nation, but it is about all we can expect. The Bill makes such provision. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill, although it is of the opinion that the Bill has been presented in a camouflaged form and goes very close to being hypocritical in character. 
I will be brief. 1 believe 1 should contribute to the debate on the amendment as there seems to be some doubt as to the attitude of my Party to it. At the outset I would like to apologise to  Senator Kennelly  if he believes that I had any ulterior motive in interjecting. As all honourable senators are aware,  Senator Kennelly  is probably the best known member of the Senate. I. think anybody listening would realise who. was speaking, irrespective of the part of the chamber from which he was speaking. I do not accept what  Senator Kennelly  has said about the period of time involved in respect of the proposed amendment. Clause 16(1.) states in part: 
If a member - 
is absent, except on leave granted by the Minister, from 3 consecutive meetings of the Commission; or . . . the Minister shall, by notice published in the Gazette, remove the member from office.  lt seems perfectly obvious that if a member of the Commission appoints a  deputy  to attend a meeting in his place and this happens on 3 consecutive occasions the member himself then has to refer the matter back to the Minister. 
If it is not right I want you to tell me why it is not right. That is very specific in the Bill. If a member - not a member or his  deputy  - does not attend 3 consecutive meetings the Minister is obliged to replace the member by a  deputy  unless the member had the leave of the Minister to absent himself. Should that circumstance develop the Minister must remove the member from the Commission and this would lead to the appointment of a new member. It does not mean that this state of affairs can go on for a long period. 

 Senator Cant said that he was very sure the Commission would be very respectable. Me said that it would be composed of highly qualified men. 
The honourable senator says that it must be. If very respectable and very highly qualified men in their particular fields are selected for the Commission surely they will be sufficiently qualified to appoint deputies to attend a meeting which they may be unable to attend. This is particularly so because a  deputy  has to be more or less approved by the highly qualified and highly respectable Commission itself. Even if the appointee were a Labor Minister I do not think he would be more highly qualified or more respectable than the honourable senator suggests the members of the Commission would be. For the reasons I have outlined we have no hesitation in saying that this is not of tremendous importance and we are wasting a lot of time on it. We are not prepared to vote for the amendment. 
-I enter into this discussion to express a point of view which I feel I must express mainly because of the answer given by the Minister to the question asked by  Senator Poyser,  and for no other reason. I think it would be unfair to quote individual cases of requests for assistance from the Minister on migration matters in a discussion such as this. I do not propose to do that. I have many friends particularly among the young Chinese community as the result of the semi-adoption of a young Chinese lady who had a problem some years ago. I find that my wife and I have become very popular with the young Chinese people and particularly those who have problems. I am prepared to handle them with the Minister for 
Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  himself. I feel that there has been  a  change in the last 12 months in Australia's attitude to this problem. I feel that it is doing us tremendous damage right throughout the world. For that reason I think it is sufficiently important on these estimates to say something about it, because the question that was answered by the Minister tonight makes quite apparent the reason why we are now becoming once again very misunderstood in other parts of the world with our controlled immigration policy. 1 would like to assure the Minister that he need have no worry about support for a common sense policy of controlled immigration from either the politicians or the people of this country. I do not think any of us would be sufficiently foolish as to advocate that we should go into some of the depressed countries of. the world and sponsor a policy of assisted migration. If we sponsored such a policy the opportunity would be seized by many people to come to this country. However, I feel that we must help the people of these countries by apportioning some of our capacity to produce and some of our natural productivity for the purpose of assisting them to lift their living standards. But we would not assist them or assist this country by bringing them here to form a second class community. That is the purpose of a controlled immigration policy. 
I can well understand the fear of the English Government today about persisting with an assisted immigration policy in a community which itself has been permeated by a large number of people who, culturally and economically, are not capable and were not capable of being smoothly inducted into the British community. 1 think that would be understood both here and abroad. But we are faced with an application by a British person whose only crime is that he has seen fit to marry a person of another race and that he has children. What is this race of 12 million people scared of? A most expert examination has to be made on behalf of the Minister for Immigration before public servants, who have only the general rules to guide them, can advise that such a person should be rejected. These are the kinds of cases on which the world is judging us. Other countries judge us rightly if we make a decision on such a case that the man cannot come for no other reason than that be happens to be married to a person of a different race and that he has children who are of mixed race. What is a nation of 12 million people afraid of in regard to cases such as these which confront us in a controlled immigration policy? 1 want to emphasise to the Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  who represents the Minister for Immigration that this is not the policy of the Australian people. The intention of a controlled immigration policy is not to convey this impression. This is a distortion that comes about because of a lack of courage. 1 never again want to live through a period such as 1 experienced abroad when I was attacked by people in Asia and elsewhere because of statements such as that made by a prominent Australian politician that two Wongs do not make a White. I will not go any further in that respect. Honourable senators will know to whom I allude. Statements of this kind do incredible damage. They destroy years of good administration. The spirit of the Australian people is not racial. I object to members of the Opposition trying to pin a racial policy onto the Government. I would not pin such a policy onto the Opposition or anyone else because by and large ! believe that this is not the spirit of the Australian people at all, irrespective of whether honourable senators in this chamber are influenced by racial discriminations. 
Our immigration programme is the cornerstone of the future of this nation, if it is to have a future. We will never get enough people in this country by way of natural increase. The facts are against us. We must have a positive and everbroadening approach to immigration policy. Our policy must be controlled if we do not want to inherit all the problems that we have seen in other nations which have not discriminated on this question. However, we must never allow our immigration policy to go to the extent that the answer conveyed to us tonight indicates. It illustrates the Government's fear of one man, his wife who is of a different race and his children who are of mixed race, ls it not true that in 30. 40 or 50 years the wife will be longer be here, and if the children come here they will most likely be intermingled with people of our race? Will it improve the situation if we decide now to exclude them? 
I suggest that the goodwill engendered by the tremendous amount of money we are spending in bringing people to this country will largely be offset by the poor reputation we will give Australia in the minds of thinking people in every part of the world, of whatever race or whatever nationality. Most of these people are fairminded enough to accept our policy of controlled immigration but not if we allow these individual cases to give a distorted picture which will predominate in the publicity that is given overseas to our immigration policy. I hope that in future what has been said on this occasion will be carefully considered by the Government and particularly by the Minister. He has the power to make special recommendations in special circumstances. Even with his departmental officers trying to carry out a general policy he is sufficiently interested and close enough to particular cases to make decisions in the interests of Australia and in the interest of a proper approach towards our fellowmen. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the fruit growers of the Goulburn Valley also have a problem in that the price being offered for peaches is uneconomic and that the export market for pears can be affected disastrously unless the supply of peaches is maintained because overseas buyers will not purchase pears unless peaches are also available at the same time? Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the disastrous circumstances of the fresh fruit growers in the Harcourt Valley in Victoria? Is the Government aware that grower co-operatives and canneries are paying ordinary overdraft rates of interest on money that is being used to finance these primary producers in their difficulties? 
I am amused at the sensitivity of  Senator Davidson  who suggested that somebody in this debate actually said something that was cruel about himself and about his Party. Of course, the honourable senator waited to make those remarks until after he had suggested that the Australian Democratic Labor Party had raised this matter of public importance for discussion in the Senate only because it wished to gain political popularity and some political kudos out of the question itself.  Senator Buttfield  already had made the same statement. I think that evil is he who evil thinks. If people wish to think that that was the motive of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, what wc would want to do is not to disillusion them but to remind them that the letter to the  President  proposing that this matter should be discussed in the Senate today - that letter was sent to the  President  on 15th December last year - came several days after a judgment which increased wages throughout our community by 6 per cent had been handed down in the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
If one was charitable and not cruel in one's approach to other politicians, one might say that the Australian Democratic Labor Party had been inspired by ils economic knowledge that this 6 per cent increase in wages must deprive further the most poverty stricken section of our community and increase the hardships that people iti this section were suffering already. Therefore, it was a matter of urgency that this Senate should express its opinion on this matter at the very first opportunity that it had. I do not expect  Senator Davidson  who is so sensitive about cruelty to himself to be as sensitive about the situation of other people and to place an economic construction on the actions of the Democratic Labor Party because the honourable senator does not understand economics. He has proved that, if I now can resort to being a little cruel, by the balderdash that he has spoken in debating this matter of public importance. 
The honourable senator gave us figures as to the increased amounts that the Government has spent on pensions from year to year. He made no mention of the increased numbers of pensioners. The number of persons eligible to receive the pension increases year by year. Because the Government was increasing the proportion of its Budget that was going to pensions, the honourable senator said that, automatically, pensioners were getting a better deal. But without an analysis of the numbers of pensioners what good are those figures and what contribution did that argument make to this debate at all? 
The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin),  who is the Minister in charge of the debate now before the Senate, tried to convince us that pensioners were all right by the quotation of a number of figures, particularly with relation to fringe benefits. For her information - if she does not know this - let us take one of the items that she mentioned, namely, the provision for home nursing care. The 6 per cent wage increase alone has led to some of those providing this service in the last month increasing their fees by $20 a fortnight for people who are bedridden. Is that increased charge being met by the Government's home nursing care scheme? ls this a fringe benefit that has accrued to these people? lt is a special payment for a very special need. The Government does nol pay for the cost of that special need at all. It pays only a proportion of it. That proportion becomes smaller as prices continue to rise. We do not want the Liberal and Country Parties to judge us on this question: we will allow the community to judge us. The people seem to do so very intelligently as election after election takes place. 
In defence of my Party I want to reply to the suggestion by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  that we had a tremendous opportunity to do something about this during the 1970-71 Budget debate. I will read from that debate the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy.  He suggested that if we had supported his contention we would have done something to alleviate the position of the pensioners. I am reading that part of the debate in which he moved an amendment catling for the addition to the motion of the words and the Senate condemns this deceptive and negative Budget because it fails to meet the real needs of the Australian people, especially with respect to (a) standards of social service and war pensioners, (b) assistance to schools, hospitals and urban authorities' etc., etc. That was merely a pious expression of opinion. 
Let us compare that with the constructive attitude of the Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Cavanagh  is trying to assist me but I must be going very badly indeed if i have to go almost to Yuendumu to get assistance in a speech on this question of economics. The constructive attitude of the Democratic Labor Party towards pensions over the years in this chamber answers the criticisms aimed against this Party. We have moved for the entire pension area to be taken out of the political arena and placed in the hands of an independent tribunal which would assess what actually can be afforded by this affluent community to those people who have created such a community. If only one of the other parties had supported that proposition we would not have had to say cruel things to one another tonight and suggest that the whole question of pensioners was being debated only for the purpose of some party gaining some political advantage from the question. I do not believe that this is a matter of politics at all. It is a matter of need. 
These people are not able to keep pace with inflation as it takes place. They are falling further and further behind because of the inevitable results of the recent wage increase decision. 
I read with interest that when the present Budget was discussed  Senator Greenwood  produced certain figures once again, lt seems to me that he would have required a computer to assist him. He showed that in the 12 months since the previous increase costs actually had gone up only by 49c and the pensioners were going to get 50c. He at least ought to vote with us tonight because on his computations as a result of the 6 per cent increase in the national wage level, now in the process of taking place, the lc profit that the pensioners were making at the end of last year - according to his figures - obviously has gone. together with a lot more cents besides. If for no other reason that his own computations he should support us tonight. Let us realise that pensions are a part of the general economy. For the Minister  to  say tonight that we should look at what the Government has done for the pensioner with children is in itself an admission of the inflation that has taken place. The Government recognised that by not allowing general child endowment payments to keep pace with the general inflation under its management it had to make special concessions to the children of invalid pensioners. These are special rates aimed at replacing what those people have lost because the Government did not increase endowment to keep the benefits commensurate with those that applied before the inflation it deliberately allowed to take place. 
My main purpose in rising to speak to this motion was to defend my parly. We were attacked because we brought this motion before the Senate. 1 think that this matter has been well debated. The parties have had almost equality of representation in the debate, with the Government having 3 speakers to reply to 2 speakers from each of the other parties. I believe that at this hour of the night the most sensible thing is for us to get a decision on this motion, and I move: 
That the question bc now put. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Original question put. 
I wish to repeat what was said by  Senator 
Gair, the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, about the circumstances of this debate. I deprecate the political stupidity that we should be gagged, even those of us who are privileged to speak for 15 minutes, when debating a subject to develop one aspect of which would take about an hour.  Senator Marriott  has introduced the subject of the wage fixing tribunals of this country. He has questioned the wisdom of their methods. I have to dismiss that argument completely, because of the pressure of time, by reminding him that the system adopted in this country is far less inflationary and hazardous to the national economy than the application of the law of .the jungle to the industrial world. Without wage fixing tribunals the system would go haywire and there would be a shortage or an over supply of labour. We do not want to return to that system with all its ramifications. As I am limited to a speech of 15 minutes I dare not canvass that topic any further. 
When the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  was putting the Government's case he said that the Commonwealth Government was making further allocations to the States because of an agreement to cover the 6 per cent wage increase. I interjected to ask him whether those allocations would be adequate to meet the costs of the States in increased wages for public servants but he had no knowledge of that matter. The Government of the Commonwealth ought to know and it should be able to tell us this when it is talking about the economy of the nation. This is one of the key factors. It relates to the liquidity of the States and how much they will have to borrow at the rates of interest over which the Commonwealth has control. In this place, about 6 months ago. we were told that rates of interest had to be increased to keep prices down. But prices have not stayed down. There are economic circumstances in which increased rates of interest will help to slow down the circulation of money and restrict the credit structure that is built upon those money resources to a degree that it will reduce prices; but when the general rates of interest in nations throughout the world are already lower than that in our own country and we increase our interest rates as a deterrent to inflation, we create a wrong situation.  1  tried to tell the Government this at the time. 
At the beginning of this crisis the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  went before the nation and threatened the people that if inflation did not cease interest rates would be increased again. He did not say then how he would tackle the problem of inflation. Today the interest rate in Australia is  8  per cent; yet the American banks, not the United States Government, have just reduced the interest rate in that country to  Si  per cent. 
Yes. The United States started to lower its interest rates when we began to increase ours, as I have tried to point out. A means of controlling inflation might bc sound economically in one set of circumstances but crazy in other circumstances. At the moment all that we are doing by having a rate of interest 2 per cent or more higher than that prevailing in the United States is to create the situation such as that outlined by  Senator Wilkinson.  Although the honourable senator did not know the reason, he said that the flow of foreign capital into Australia had increased by $20m in a month. There is no shortage of lenders. Immediately our interest rate becomes higher than that of other countries it attracts a flow of overseas capital to gain the advantage of the higher rate. There has never been a lender who was deterred by high interest rates; nor has a borrower ever been deterred by high rates. A borrower is in the market to borrow only because he must have the money, and he will pay whatever interest rate the Government will permit lenders to charge him. 
If proof is needed of what I have said, I refer honourable senators to last night's edition of the Melbourne 'Herald' which states that United States banks have cut rates to  Si  per cent. In the next column of the same newspaper is the headline 'Now a Rush for Sterling'. The article explains that the 'dollar sterling' 'has suddenly become more valuable on international markets because the American dollar is now worth less in terms of interest for investments than the British equivalent. The result is that international capital is flowing into Great Britain, as it is into Australia. We are not of sufficient importance in the international scheme to merit a mention. Because our economy is so much smaller it is so much more sensitive. I deprecate the political stupidity of the Opposition, which is not sufficiently interested in this subject to have more than 3 members in the Senate chamber to listen to thus discussion and perhaps to enable those who are not aware of the situation to learn a little about the cause of inflation. Instead it suggests that big business is causing inflation by increasing prices. 
Big business is hurt by inflation as much as anyone in the community. The insecurity which can develop in this situation can cause businesses to be placed in circumstances similar to those that operated in the 1930s when ultimately many finished in the bankruptcy court. Any instability of the economy disrupts the whole business life of the community. We cannot dismiss the problem as lightly as the Opposition would suggest. We have to know and understand all the ramifications of inflation. If I seem to direct my remarks too much to financial liquidity and the interest rates applicable in Australia it is only because I have not the time to deal with more than that one aspect of the problem. 
We have been gagged by the very nature of this debate. In circumstances where we gain no extra productivity from an increase in wages an inflationary tendency results. Let us consider what the Government has suggested with regard to economies in Public Service spending. To suggest that because the Government is saving much it will be doing something about inflation is so much poppycock. If ultimately it is able to create a source of labour which can be engaged in more productive enterprises and so increase the volume of production in this country to absorb the surplus money and credit that is available for the purchase of goods within our economy, it will achieve some small measure of control over inflation. But that cannot happen now, and if will do nothing to affect the inflation which will flow from the 6 per cent wage increase. The increased wages will be paid. If by virtue of the economies made in the Public Service we are able to create a pool of labour which can go into productive industry, that labour will have to be paid at the increased rates and ultimately this will have the effect of forcing up the price of goods when they reach the market. Whatever happens as a result of the Government's savings in the Public Service, it is certain that prices will be higher in 12 months time than they are now. But that is not the only factor to be considered. 
If interest rates in Australia begin to come down and cause a flight of overseas capital away from this country another factor will be introduced; it may offset the amount of capital that is available in Australia for the purchase of goods. Recent publicity about Mineral Securities Australia Ltd leads me to another point about the stupidity that we have allowed to develop in this country. All honourable senators will receive today a copy of the 'Australian Handbook' which illustrates that, under a gentleman's agreement, if the States wish to borrow more than $300,000 they may do so on the loan market only, and then only if they have permission of the Commonwealth. Yet speculative companies which are in business for no purpose other than the buying and selling of shares may borrow $9m without restraint from the Government, which is supposed to be managing the economy of the country. All these factors have to be fitted into a general economic picture. 
When the Prime Minister announced that he would make a television appearance and tell the nation about the economy I thought we would all learn something, but we did not learn anything. AH we discovered was that the Prime Minister was going to try to save something of the Public Service wage bill by instituting economies in government expenditure. It is not true to say that none of this expenditure is productive, because much of it is for buildings and other things which are productive. Although these things in themselves do not produce goods, they are a product and as such must be recognised as being productive. So it is foolish to dismiss this expenditure. What information did we get from the Prime Minister? 
I cast my mind back to the last debate when we were talking about Commonwealth and State finances. When, at that time, I challenged the Government about the fact that interest rates not only were being allowed but also were being prompted by the Government to rise by a further i per cent,  Senator Greenwood  asked whether I would dare to place my opinion against that of the Federal Treasurer and the Federal Treasury officials. None of these people has explained to us the fundamental causes of the inflation that is rampant in our community today. Do they think we are not sufficiently intelligent to understand, or do they not know? If they believed that when the rate of interest in America, which is one of the greatest international investing nations, was going down from 8 per cent ours should go up to 8 per cent and that this would place a restraint upon inflation, I am prepared to place my knowledge of international finance against that of the Federal Treasurer. It is plain common sense that increased interest rates here will cause a run of overseas capital into Australia. The saving that will be achieved by the action taken by the Government so far will not equal the increased flow of capital in one month which was referred by  Senator Wilkinson.  What we are inclined to say at the moment is: 'Isn't it wonderful "for Australia to have all this money coming in'. But it is going to circulate in this- country and create a credit edifice upon itself, and it will enter into the market for the goods available from our industries. 
The whole pattern, as it develops, shows the absolute insanity of what is going on in the community and yet we cannot seem to get anybody to take the lead in the proper areas and do something about it. One of the first possible steps to control this rampant inflation is to reduce .the interest rate. The Government cannot turn back the clock and take back the 6 per cent wage increase but it can reduce the interest rate. That should have been the first step taken by the Government. What happened when the interest rate was increased by the Government by even .5 per cent?- 1 spoke to a young fellow who was organising a committee in a suburb because the local council had increased the rates by $10 a year or because the valuations had gone up. I said to him: 'Did you organise a committee when the rate of interest on your loan for your house rose by .5 per cent?' He said: No'. I said: 'How much do you owe?' He said: '$12,000.' I said: 'Well, that increase in the rate of interest will cost you more than $60 a year and you will have to pay it every year. The increased interest rate did not control inflation in your case because you had already built your house. The increase in interest rate did not lessen demand by the tremendous number of borrowers throughout our community. They had already borrowed the money and built their houses. There was no restriction on spending. There was only an inflated income for the financial houses in Australia.' 

 Senator Marriott said that the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission was not very wise to put wages up. The point is that the Commission had heard all the evidence and knew that the Government had put up the interest rate because this was such an affluent society and so on and could afford to pay the increase.  Senator Marriott  condemned the Commission but did not condemn the Government. The Government has made no attempt to adopt one of the most sensible methods of controlling inflation. When the rates of interest abroad are tending downwards, it should prevent the inflow of too much overseas capital into this country. That capital aggravates the inflation that already . exists. The Government should .lower the interest rate and give back a bit- of justice to the people it robbed 6 months ago when it increased the interest rate. The Government should get the interest rate down to about 54 per cent or 6 per cent. This is another economic peculiarity, if you .like to call it that. I am not suggesting to the Government that it rush ahead and reduce the interest rale tomorrow by 1 per cent or 2 per cent. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)-  -Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support this motion. For a- period of 2 years now there has been confusion about the question of the export of merino rams because the Government failed to take the Senate's advice that it should find out for sure what the industry really wanted to be done. This matter was first .raised when the proposition was put forward that the ban which had existed for a considerable time on the export of merino rams be lifted in part in the interests of the wool industry itself. Such a move was agreed to by many of the people and organisations associated with the wool industry, particularly some of the organisations which purport to speak on behalf of sections of the wool industry. Immediately the proposition was made there was a furore among the people in the industry itself and many deputations approached political parties in Canberra and the other capital, cities expressing a completely contrary point of view. It now became perfectly obvious that there was no unanimity in the industry and no clear opinion as to whether it was- wise from the point of view of the industry itself partially to lift the ban. 
The first proposition to be discussed in this chamber was a motion, to the effect that a referendum be conducted of the people concerned so that the confused situation could be clarified. That motion was carried by the Senate.-  Senator Byrne  of the Democratic Labor Party then moved immediately that the resolution carried by the Senate be conveyed to the other place.  His  motion was agreed to unanimously by the Senate. Honourable senators opposite agreed that the resolution which had been carried by the Senate should be conveyed to the other place for' it's consideration. However, the other place did not see fit to consider this resolution and the confusion continued. In the meantime there was an election. Until the election was over nothing was done to meet the wishes of those in the industry who. wanted the ban lifted; nor was any security, given to those who wanted the ban to continue. 
Immediately the election .. was over the Government took action by way of regulation. It has been argued that because the original ban was imposed by way of regulation it should be dispensed with by way of regulation. That point is debatable.- 
However, as the interest of the people at large as well as that of a section of the Parliament had been aroused and an opinion on the matter had been expressed by the Senate, the Democratic Labor Party is of the opinion that the Government should not have moved for the removal of the ban without at least obtaining a much clearer opinion from the industry itself. The Government did not seek to obtain this opinion. As a result, a motion was moved in this chamber condemning the Government for its actions. This motion, too, was carried by the Senate. There was not very much fuss for a considerable time after that about the export of merino rams but an industrial dispute arose quite recently about whether some rams which had been bought quite legitimately at sales should be prevented by a union black ban from being exported to their new owners. This resulted in further confusion in the community. I want to make it perfectly clear that the Democratic Labor Party believes that regardless of the merits of the issue, any organisation that attempted to enter into a field that was not within its province did not do its cause any good. Quite apart from the principle involved, the Democratic Labor Party believes that this was a very foolish and stupid action to take. 
I should say, as one who has had considerable experience in the industrial movement, that I have never seen a more futile nor ill considered attempt by the trade union movement to  prove  its strength. I am quite happy to make known my views not only as a member of this chamber but also as a member of an industrial union. If I were still taking advantage of my union membership to attend trade union congresses I would say to the trade union movement for its benefit the very thing that 1 propose to say to the Senate, which is: 'If you want to prove your strength as an industrial .movement you should at least do it efficiently. Do not pick the weakest issues and  the  strongest opponent'. When a trade union picks the Government as an opponent it picks the strongest possible opponent. There is no point in maintaining a strike after the reason for it has been removed. 
When a ban is placed on the export of something the Government has only to use its undoubted strength to export it. In the days when the coal industry was disrupted by political strikes a Labor Prime Minister used the strength of the government to ensure that the coal was won. if it is possible to do that with coal it most certainly must be possible to get an aircraft off the ground. Once the inoffensive rams, which had nothing to do with this dispute, were airborne and out of this country where was the strength of the industrial movement? Does any honourable senator imagine that the unionists would stay out on strike until the rams were brought back again. I am a trade unionist. 
If the trade union movement is unable to take criticism by its own members it is no longer the organisation I originally joined. When I joined the trade union movement it was in my experience one of the most democratic institutions ever formed. I am a member of two unions and I think I am entitled to be critical of the trade union movement if I think that the ACTU is embarking upon a completely  futile and stupid action which will only prove not the strength but the weakness of the trade union movement. Anybody who runs away from an issue is an industrial coward. If  Senator Cavanagh,  who is interjecting, thinks that the ban on the export of merino rams was a good strike issue he should get up and say so.  Senator Cavanagh  and I and perhaps one or two other ' honourable - senators have probably had more experience in the industrial movement than anyone else in this chamber. 
I must have been a rather peculiar ticket holder because the trade union movement "of Victoria selected me - along with 1 other" delegate - to represent it at ACTU congresses. Only 2 of us represented the State'- of Victoria. If  Senator Cavanagh  regards me as having been only a ticket holder I suggest that he should put his record alongside mine and see who has the confidence of the unions. I repeat that the black ban was a stupid action on the part of the organised trade union movement of this, country which only added to the confusion: Indeed, the challenge to the authority of the Government itself cast a doubt in the minds of many people who originally supported the idea that the export of merino rams was not in the interests of the people of Australia and drove them over on to the other side. If any democrat were io allow such a challenge to succeed he would be helping to destroy the very basis of his democracy. Those honourable senators who do not believe me are, 1 would suggest, not democrats. 
This is the situation in which we find ourselves at present. Confusion upon confusion has resulted in faults developing on all sides. The poor old rams were purists until the attempt recently to export them. Now in the minds of many people they are also suffering from the same blemishes as the Government, which had before it the clearly expressed opinion of the elected members of a House of the Parliament but was not prepared lo clarify the situation further before it acted. That is the situation in which members of the Democratic Labor Party find themselves. 
We believe that the Government has erred. Making mistakes is a quality of government in which this Government indulges from time to time. We do noi support the challenge to the authority of the Government. We believe that to support that challenge would worsen the situation. We support the motion because we believe that even at this late stage the Government should re-think the situation and should obtain from the whole industry at least a more solid opinion than that upon which it has made its decisions to date. The Government can prove beyond doubt that it has the support of a considerable and authoritative section of the industry, but by the same token there is plenty of evidence to show that as big a section of the industry is opposed to the removal of the ban as the section that supports its removal. Until the matter is clarified we in the Democratic Labor Party will continue to oppose, within the law, the export of merino rams. 
I wish to bring to the attention of the Senate and the Government 2 matters which I believe require urgent consideration. Last Tuesday week I raised by way of question the problems facing the fruit canning and the fresh fruit industries of Victoria, particularly in the Goulburn Valley and Harcourt Valley. I do not wish to repeat to the Senate the information which has been given to it already about the very drastic situation in which the pear growers whose fruit is canned find themselves, but I want to press again before the Government the problems of peach growers and the uneconomic prices they are receiving for their product which, in itself, could affect the present and future marketing prospects of our tremendous surplus of pears. 
Peaches are in short supply in many of the world's, markets where canned fruits are sold but pears can be obtained without any difficulty. T remind the Senate that overseas buyers will not purchase pears unless peaches are available al the same time. Unless peaches can be supplied this year and next year it will be even more difficult than it is to sell the quantity of canned pears- that we are selling now. Peach growers are reaching the stage at which they are prepared to grub out their trees. This could be disastrous because it will take at- least 10 years to re-establish them and there could be a further depletion in the supply of peaches in the years to come, so we will be further handicapped in our attempts to sell on the world's markets the pears that we are capable of . producing as well as those already in store for next year. This could be a cumulative problem - if the Government does not give immediate attention to the uneconomic prices being paid to peach growers for their crops. 
The other particularly urgent matter that I want to raise relates to growers of fresh fruit for export in the Harcourt Valley. They have  struck seasonal troubles and climatic changes which have caused tremendous problems. In fact a lot of orchards already have gone out of production while others are in a very doubtful situation and are being assisted by their cooperative which has had to borrow large sums of money to assist the fruit growers in these months of dire necessity. They have to borrow money at the ordinary overdraft rates of interest. I recall that the Government, when it promoted in the Senate its proposal to increase interest rales, promised that primary industry, with all of its problems, would not be confronted with the increased interest rates. Incidentally, I did not agree with the Government's justification for the increase. The growers are not borrowing direct; their co-operative is borrowing on their behalf. This is a matter which the Government could look at to see that the co-operatives are placed in a more favourable situation to borrow money at least at the rates of interest which apply to primary industry and thus give some relief to the fruit growers in the urgent and immediate problems with which they are confronted. 
The next matter I wish to raise is entirely different, lt concerns industrial relations and inflation. There is an economy drive at present to help control the inflation that is current in the community. 1 point out to the Government that unnecessary aggravation in industrial situations which can cause stoppages of work in industries where stoppages hitherto have been unknown, can be more inflationary and aggravate the situation far more than wage increases or anything else. I am referring in particular to a situation that has developed amongst scientists who are employed in the Commonwealth Public Service. They include bacteriologists, biochemists, chemists, geologists, geophysicists, metallurgists, meteorologists, petroleum technologists, pharmacists and others. This is a very wide ambit of people who have not been in the practice of indulging in industrial stoppages to get economic justice in their professions. They are employed in a very wide range of departments including the Departments of Customs and Excise, Interior, Army, Supply, Works, Health and Primary Industry. Some are also employed at the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
These people have had claims awaiting decision since 1966. They have been dealt with in part and at one time they were on a parity with the engineers. That parity was upset in March 1969 when a 7) per cent increase in salary was offered to the scientists. They accepted this without prejudice to a claim they had made back in 1966 and which has not yet been decided. Following this in October 1969 the Public Service Board announced an increase of 11 per cent to IS per cent to professions which included engineers and experimental officers. These were people with whom the scientists had always been on a par until they had received the  Ti  per cent increase some 5 months before. Then the engineers gained an increase of from 1 1 per cent to J 5 per cent. Naturally that put the scientists in a situation where they wanted to press forward with the claims they had had before the Board since 1966 to bring them again to parity with the engineers. I have no wish to indulge in any speculation as to what a board properly constituted to hear a case such as this should or should not do with what evidence is submitted before it. The point I am pressing is that there should be a very early hearing because already the scientific people in Government departments are reaching a stage of impatience where they feel they will be forced to take extreme action, not necessarily to get what they want but to get a hearing of the case itself. That is the point 1 want to press to the Government. I think this is unnecessarily provocative and there must surely be some very important circumstances that could delay a hearing of the claims of people in these professions. I bring this matter to the Government's attention as one I consider to be urgent. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. We have some reservations on it, but they do not go as far as the reservations expressed by the Australian Labor Party. Its reservations have been expressed in an amendment criticising the Government. The Bill tries to make the problem of communication between many new citizens and people who are here already simpler than they have been. I think the Bill has been forced upon the Commonwealth because of the growing deficiencies in State educational systems which have dealt with the problem of integrating new settlers into our community and with the problem of educating children who have a deficiency in the English language. In the great majority of cases that deficiency is overcome very rapidly when the young children concerned attend school. I know that in Fitzroy in Victoria, which State 1 represent, there is a school capable of giving crash courses in English. Chinese students have complained to me that because of their lack of knowledge of the English language, they were unable to absorb even the rudiments of the education that they came here to get. 
Today in a country such as the United States of America it is possible to train a team of people to travel to the moon and to tramp upon it, but it seems that in our associations with other nations, through the United Nations, nothing practical has been done to rationalise this problem of lack of communication because of language barriers. It could well be that the people who were enthusiasts for Esperanto have changed their ideas. We have not heard as much of them as we used to hear. Individual national languages will not be replaced by some agreed upon international language that can be understood by all. The United Nations should be allowed to spend the money to be expended if this Bill is implemented and the money to be expended by the implementation of similar Bills in other countries to have one common language taught in all schools in the world so that this communication barrier will not exist. Tourists, travellers and people who migrate because of world upheavals such as those that have been occurring have a great need for international communication. 
At the moment this lack of communication is a local problem brought about by the influx of a large number of migrants into Australia. The problem has been pushed right before us. Their integration into our community is much more difficult because of the communication barrier. So we say that we have to take extra steps to teach them English. The wheel may turn anil the grandchildren of the people whom we bring here and teach English with so much difficulty may migrate from this country.- because of a different set of world circumstances, and the process of breaking down the communication barrier has to start over again. The third or fourth generation, who have learnt the newly acquired language of their ancestors, for one purpose or another may migrate. In the United Nations an attempt should be made to get a common agreement that in all schools in all countries a common language, which everybody can understand, as well as the national language will be taught. 
This is where we get the division between the ideal and the practical. If I may say so,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  some of your remarks were couched in terms which were the ideal rather than the practical.  Senator Turnbull  suggested that we should ban from coming to this country people who do not speak English. In the main, we do not bring people to this country as individuals: we bring them as families or as family units. It would have been a dreadful thing for our immigration programme if we had rejected many of the fine families which have come here and which are now successfully integrated because perhaps the mother - in most cases it would be the mother - did not have a knowledge of the English language when she came here and did not. in spite of the encouragement we offer, learn the language of her adopted country. 
The problem is a passing one; it passed with a generation. Migration is bigger than the generation that comes here. Migration is planning the future of a nation, not the present generation. To some extent the people that are brought here ar? unimportant. Perhaps in the immediate post-war years we lost an opportunity to gather a large number of people who would have been very splendid migrants because the circumstances of war had driven them, in European countries that were under occupation, to ways of life which we, in our isolation from the tragedies that war can create, could not understand or condone. We said that they would not make suitable citizens. We had people examining their credentials most assiduously to ensure that we would not be contaminated by somebody who had been forced to live the type of life that most of us would prefer that neither we nor our children would have to live. But that is in the past. 1 made that point to indicate that we should not go to the extreme suggested by  Senator Turnbull  and impose on intending migrants a certain standard of the English language. We pride ourselves that we speak English, but in parts of England it is very difficult to make oneself understood because of the type of English that we in this country seem to have acquired. 
We should not enforce a rule that would prevent adult migrants from coming here because they were not proficient in English. Let us pause to consider what being proficient in English means. It is easy to be able lo say 'cat, rat, mat' and things like that but more is needed to make oneself understood in any country. An educated programme of the language is seldom of very much assistance when it comes to conversing in the local jargon that is accepted by people in some countries. One has to live in a community before one can become fluent, able to understand and to be understood in that language. What is taught in schools covers a very limited field, ff we imposed rules that did not permit migrants because of their lack of knowledge of the language to come to this country, our migration programme would have suffered tremendously and this country would not have developed to the extent that it has today. Its future expansion would be seriously interfered with by a rule such as that. We would not agree with thinking along those lines. 
I am certain that  Senator Turnbull,  in his profession, has to overcome this problem of lack of communication due to the language barrier. This is one of the difficulties brought about by immigration. Great stress is placed upon this lack of communication. The only person who can tell the doctor exactly where the pain is is the person who is experiencing the pain. It must be very difficult for a man in the profession in which  Senator Turnbull  was to communicate with a woman from a European country who has never been required to mingle outside her own family circle after migrating here. Most of her communications with our community have been through her children or her husband. He has to go out and work to earn a living. Although he might not pass a standard test in English, after mingling in the community he knows sufficient of the language to get by. But very often the woman is isolated in her own family circle. If she is ill and has to explain her symptoms to a doctor, it is very difficult for her to do that proficiently through an interpreter. She is the only person who can really explain her symptoms. T suppose that this is a problem with which we will have to live for this generation. 
The Bill accepts what should be a Commonwealth responsibility, lt is the Commonwealth that has implemented the immigration programme and is responsible for it. As a representative of the State of Victoria, I suggest that too much of the responsibility for the subsidiary problems that emanate from the immigration programme has been placed upon the States as an added burden. It is true that the States have been compensated financially and helped to meet the expense. But one of the contentions of the leaders and elected governments of the States at the moment is that the provision has been inadequate for the actual expense in which the States have gradually become involved. I refer particularly to those States in which the rate of migration has been much higher than in others. 
This Bill will not do everything. 1 do not suppose that the Minister would say that it was expected to do everything. But at least it represents the acceptance of a responsibility. 1 hope that the fears expressed by  Senator Turnbull  do not come to fruition and that the money will be spent in a practical way. In most instances the most practical way will probably be through the existing educational institutions, and particularly the State educational institutions. For those reasons, we support the Bill. We make the suggestion that the Australian Government be the first government in the world to make a move on an international basis - in these years of rapid expansion, perhaps we face the problem more than do other countries - for some international language to be agreed upon and taught in the schools of this country and every other country in an attempt to overcome this problem of communication which is so tremendously expensive and which limits our enjoyment of the facilities which are now available as they have never been available before and which will become increasingly available in the future. 
As people travel from country io country they should not have this barrier of communication between them and the great majority of the people of the country that they happen to be visiting. We know that an education programme such as this will not reach everybody. But the education systems of the nations of the world are expanding and becoming more proficient. Instead of tourists or migrants going from country to country and being understood by very few members of the community in which they find themselves, they should be able to be understood by the majority. We make that suggestion as a practical proposition for the Government of our country to put to the governments of other countries. 
It would not be our purpose to support the amendment. We doubt that there is justification for the Opposition, the corner party or the independent to condemn the Government on this matter on the basis that too little has been done. When rill is said and done, governments are subject to pressures by all people who are interested in public life and politics. In the 3 years I have been here I have not heard of any specific instance in which any of us have been condemning the Government because it has not taken sufficient action in this regard. Neither have we been moving urgency motions and endeavouring to get these things done by giving the Government the nudge that was necessary. Individuals have interested themselves in the problem. This is always the case within the framework of all political parties. I know that  Senator Mulvihill  would be the first to agree with me. He has interested himself in the protection of our flora and fauna. If the Government has been slow in soma respects in that field, he as an individual - quite apart from his Party - would have every justification for saying: 'I am in a situation in which I can condemn the Government for not listening to me over the years'. 
Bui. whilst there has been criticism in this field - there always will be criticism of governments because that is what oppositions and corner parties are for - I do not know that any of us could claim that we are justified in expressing our approval of the Bill and then saying that we condemn the Government for the delay in providing a comprehensive programme. I believe that there has been a reasonable approach to the programme over the years. Perhaps it has not been enough to satisfy everybody. But there has been sufficient success to justify our saying in the international sphere that Australia as a whole has done a good job in this field and, having done a good job, we now seek to do a better one as other problems are beginning lo emerge and to become more obvious to all of us as a community. 
One reason is that we now have more migrants here than ever before. Possibly a greater contributing factor is that we arc now bringing migrants from countries with which hitherto we as a country have had very little contact. This could be said in relation to the recent influx of Turkish migrants who are now coming to this country in greater numbers than ever before. Perhaps the only time when we have had a lot to do with Turkey as a nation was in the 1914-18 War, when we happened to be specific opponents of that country and for some time some Australians of that generation came into contact with Turks in that way. We have been drawing our migrants more from European centres in many of which English is taught in the schools. I refer to Holland its an example. That has been of great assistance to us. It probably makes for more easily assimilable migrants. They were better places from which to obtain migrants. But that source is drying up. If we want to persist with our immigration programme - there are those of us who feel that Australia has no future without an immigration programme - and if we are spreading our net much wider now, problems will certainly arise. 
I believe that this Bill results from the problems becoming more obvious as a result of that and as a result of the financial starvation of the States which means that they arc not able to do as much over the whole field as they have been doing in the past. Perhaps the States were using funds that were meant for education in general to provide crash courses in English to enable people from other countries - particularly children - to cope more readily with the education system in this country. In our view, those are the reasons for the Bill. We have made some practical suggestions to the Government in an effort to achieve a bigger concept of what this problem means to future generations. If possible, we should achieve some international agreement. This must start somewhere, and Australia seems to be the country which more than any other has this problem. We support the Bill and hope that it passes. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to a question. I asked on 16th February. It could be suggested that some parts of my question have been answered by recent statements. The 2 parts I wish to raise are as follows: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the disastrous circumstances of the fresh fruit growers in the Harcourt Valley in Victoria? fs the Government aware that grower co-operatives and canneries are paying ordinary overdraft rates of interest on money that is being used to finance these primary producers in their difficulties? 
The Minister replied to my question by saying that he was not aware of the details but that he would take the matter up with the Minister and obtain some information. J now ask the Minister: When am I likely to get the information? 
J do not wish to speak at great length on this matter. My main purpose in rising is to move an amendment that was to some extent foreshadowed in the remarks of my colleague  Senator Byrne  when he stated the viewpoint of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on this matter. The amendment has been circulated; I do not know that this is the time for scathing criticism or for wildly enthusiastic support for the committees in general. We have always supported a policy of gradualism in relation to committees, considering it to be much more reasonable to expect that if we move a little more slowly, if we establish them gradually and if we learn by the inevitable mistakes that will be made as we go along we will ultimately have much more successful and better committees doing the work of the nation than otherwise would be the case. lt is because we have adopted that attitude throughout the discussion that we now feel that some of those who are prepared to say that the estimates committees failed because in some respects they were dissatisfied and others who say that the estimates committees were a marvellous success because more attention was given to various aspects than previously are making hasty judgments. With something as new to the Senate as the estimates committees are, we believe that just a little more time and a little more experience are necessary before we can assess fully whether they are a success or a failure and precisely what is necessary to make them function as everybody in the Senate wants them to function. 
I have a certain amount of sympathy for  Senator Cavanagh  who ' obviously had specific questions that he wished to raise on aspects of the Estimates which were tremendously important to him. This matter gets down to party difficulties. In our Party we may have the good fortune that being few, we do not expect to be able to be duly represented on all committees; indeed, it is physically difficult for us to be represented on all committees. Because we have complete confidence in each other, if there is a specific matter that we want raised in an estimates committee that we are unable to attend we go to one another and ensure that in our own interests, in the interests of the country and in the interests of getting a good debate on it the question that is uppermost in our minds is raised by one of our trusted colleagues. Of course, in that sense I can speak only for our Party. 
We may have the aci vantage of being small in parliamentary representation. ]f  Senator Cavanagh  were here I would suggest to him personally that it might be a simple solution to the problem that he found with the estimates committees on this occasion for him to request a trusted colleague to ask for him the question that he most wanted to be asked in the estimates committees which, because of the pressure of work on himself, he was unable to attend. The important thing is not who asks the question of either the Minister or department concerned or who draws attention to what may be a fault in the Estimates or the Budget, but the fact that the question is asked. We offer to other parties the methods and techniques that we adopt, namely, of trusting each other and seeing that whatever matter we wish to have raised is raised where it should be raised. 
 I would not like to say that about any honourable senator. I am offering that advice. Perhaps we are fortunate in our circumstances. There are not yet enough of us here to indulge in the luxury of (he disputation that goes on in larger parties. We may come to that problem in the future. 
The propositions now before the Senate do fit in with the ideas that we have on the gradual implementation of the committee system. But we believe that it is a matter of priorities, lt is noi that all the questions are not important, lt is not that our proposition is more important than the one that wc suggest should be deleted. We believe that it has such a degree of urgency that it should be given priority at this stage, lt is for that reason that I move the following amendment to the motion now before the Senate: 
In paragraph 2 id), leave out proposed subparagraph lii). insert: 
The Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations this shall include finance for Slate*, statutory authorities and loc.il government):'. 
The effect of that amendment would be to delete from the motion the section that refers to the Standing Committee on Social Environment and to replace it with our suggestion for the appointment of the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. 
We support the proposition for the appointment of only 2 committees in view of al! the physical difficulties in regard to accommodation, the allocation of duties and the position of honourable senators. We also understand the position of Ministers. We believe thai if 2 committees are to be established the committee that we propose would be a heller one to establish because of the degree of urgency involved. In regard to the proposal for the reduction in the number of members that is necessary to form a committee from 8 to 6 and a reduction in the quorum from 4 to 3, wc believe that that is a practical step in view of the number of people in the Senate. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - ls the amendment seconded? 
In the very brief time available to me I would like to answer one or two important questions. The first was raised by the Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  who is frightened at what an increase in child endowment might cost. The Australian Labor Party says that the action of the Australian Democratic Labor Party in proposing this' matter of urgency is useless because its effect will merely be to adjourn the Senate to a different time tomorrow. 
Firstly,  I  would remind the Australian ' Labor Party that when a similar occasion arose at the beginning of this session it wasted its opportunity to do something about pensions. The members of that Party were sending telegrams to one another around the country seeking to have the Parliament called together. We had placed on the business paper of the Senate an urgency proposal. We had the matter discussed properly by the Parliament. For once the Australian Labor Party was prepared to support the constructive and intelligent action of the Democratic Labor Party, and our proposal was carried by the Senate. In spite of what the Australian Labor Party says about hypocrisy and its being useless to bring on this matter in this manner, and in spite of the fact that the Government says that such an increase, which had not been budgeted for, would cost $10Om or $200m and has tried to use these figures to frighten the public, within a few short weeks it saw the wisdom of the arguments that had been placed before the Senate. The Government acted against the advice that it had received and acted on the opinion that had been conveyed to it by this section of the Parliament. The Government decided to increase pensions, in spite of its stated opinions that it was not possible financially so to do and that if it attempted to increase pensions at that stage it would create ruin throughout the country. That is the answer to the criticisms. 
The Minister for Health  (Senator Greenwood)  talked of taxation concessions to supplement child endowment. The increases in child endowment have not kept pace with the general increases in the inflationary spiral which the Government admits have taken place. The Government has claimed credit for . that portion of the increases resulting from increased interest rates. The Minister said that taxation remissions make a difference. Let me remind him that the man most affected by the increases - the man on the basic wage, whose wife does not .work, and who has 3 or 4 children - does not pay any tax. How can taxation remissions alleviate the financial burdens of such families? That shows how arguments can become confused by sets of figures. Let me say this to him: These frightening amounts of millions, which he suggested, will not disappear if the Government pays increased child endowment. This money will be spent in our community. Most of it will go to people who have an urgent need to spend it immediately, even if it is only on school requisites for their children. The sales tax on those items will return some of that money to the Commonwealth Government. 
The increased child endowment would merely circulate more money in the community. The Government may say that that will increase the inflationary spiral and that it cannot grant the increase. The Government should get to work and reduce the interest rates to what they were before this inflationary spiral started. That would cure the situation not only in relation to child endowment but also in relation to the other matter that we did not have time to mention in the restricted period of this debate - the home savings grants. I must say something about that.  Senator Buttfield  suggested that the home savings grants were a great advantage to the young people. They were. The scheme was an extension of the marriage loans scheme that we had been advocating for some time. The facts are that today the young person who buys a home and gets the grant is no better off than the young person who bought his home 3 or 4 years ago and did not get the grant because the price increases that the Government has allowed to develop in the economy and the increased interest rates absorb more than the $500 grant The person who receives the grant is worse off. 
The period for this debate is restricted. 1 wish to prove who is being hypocritical. We do not judge measures on who moves them, but on the measures themselves. We might charge the Australian Labor Party with voting with the Liberals as often as we have and with giving their preferences to the Liberals, as they do. In this debate the question is: Who votes where tonight? Unless at this stage of the debate we get some decision so that we can indicate to the Government what it should do, there will be no decision. For that reason, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior been informed of the disgraceful incident which occurred in Melbourne when the War Memorial was desecrated on Anzac eve by hoodlums- masquerading as pacifists who, in the name of peace, bashed a security man insensible? Are the staff responsible for the security of such national memorials and buildings suitably equipped to protect themselves and people's property from such ruthless, demonstrating thugs? If not will the staff be adequately armed to protect themselves? 
I should think ° that the re would not' be an honourable senator in' this chamber who would not join me m the congratulations that I convey to  Senator James  McClelland on his first address to the Senate.' It was a very thoughtful address which "in essence dealt with many matters" contained in this Bill. Also I should think that there would not be a member of this chamber who was not gravely concerned about the legislation that we -are now considering and who could not turn his mind back over a lifetime and be able to understand why at this point we seem to need to strengthen the laws in relation to public order, laws which for the lifetime of most of us older senatorsthis would be the majority of us - have seemed to serve lis very well. 
During the debate  Senator James  McClelland drew attention to the fact that we have had periods of great public celebration and great public stress when the police have been able to handle the problems of law and order quite adequately. He referred to royal visits and other occasions when the police have found it necessary, in the interests of the community in general, to ask persons tq move on or groups to disperse, and he said that on those occasions the people have always obeyed the authority of the law and there has been no trouble. However, I would remind the honourable senator that, things have changed quite dramatically in this regard in the last 5 years or so. If we analyse the situation I think we must appreciate that there is current in our community a philosophy that if a person holds strong opinions of a specific character the ends justify the means. I disagree with my friend  Senator Kennelly  who seems to be inclined to the view that the only issue involved is national service or the Vietnam war, in respect of which there have been many occasions during which there has been disorder. At the moment situations of this kind, involving the safety and security of the public, develop in relation to all sorts of unrelated national and international questions, such as land rights for Aboriginals or the policy towards the coloured -people in some other country ,- such as Africa. 
Disorder is not confined to one specific question. Demonstrations are now reaching a stage where the community, as well as the Parliament, has proof that it is necessary, to take some steps before the situation deteriorates still further, if we are to pre* serve a semblance of the law and order which we' have known during great public celebrations* and as part of our public life. I join -issue with  Senator James  McClelland on something that he said which I think is unfair to good Australians and. unfair to" a particular section of the Austraiian community to which I have always belonged. I refer to the working people of Australia. Today there is a definite public campaign to belittle our police forces by accusing them of brutality and implying that their motives in . helping to maintain law and order are, if not misguided, deliberately wrong.  Senator James  McClelland said in the course of his speech: 
We do not hear of people being arrested for blocking the streets during a visit by the Pope or the Queen or while disporting themselves at some of our regional mardi  gras  such as the Moomba festival or the Waratah festival . . . 
I think he makes a statement of fact there. On these sorts of occasions, when the police give a direction to a crowd of people they axe obeyed. It is one of the fundamentals of maintaining law and order that people have respect for the police. I believe that we, who are charged with the public responsibility of making the laws of the country, should be the last to undermine the respect of the community at large for a very hard working body of men in all the States of the Commonwealth who happen to have the obnoxious task of maintaining the law and order that all of us wish to see maintained and who are employees of ours. I despise the boss or the taxpayer who wants to go out and demean his own public servants. But  Senator James  McClelland went on to say: 
. while the drunken excesses of Anzac Day are evidently sanctified by patriotism. 
I have no doubt that on Anzac Day, as on St Patrick's Day, May Day or Eight Hour Day, there- are those who exceed what is wise. I believe that  Senator James  McCIelland's choice of Anzac Day as an isolated occasion to demonstrate the point was itself unwise. I am certain that on reflection he will agree with me because the circumstances he outlined apply to many other occasions. It has been one of the prides of this country that our police forces in general have always adopted a commonsense approach to situations that develop on those occasions - an approach of which we all, as taxpayers who employ them, have publicly approved. But  Senator James  McClelland then ventured into an area in which I do not agree with him. I would like him to reflect upon what he said. He said: 
But it is quite different when the public demonstration is disapproved of by the police, goaded on by their own prejudices or inflamed by the media or  sooled  on by some politician who is looking for an electoral law and order issue, such as  Mr Asian  was doing . . . 
I am unaffected by his criticism of  Mr Askin  who, like us, is a politician. He is fair game for anybody. But to suggest that every working policeman who goes to a demonstration charged with the responsibility, under his officers and his superiors, of preserving law and order allows his own opinions or prejudices, should he have them, to interfere with the manner in which he carries out his duties, in my opinion, is completely unfair, without unequivocal proof that what is said applies to all the members of the force and without referring to specific instances in which it can be proved. 
Have honourable senators ever considered what happens in many instances? Let me take as an instance in point the demonstration outside the American Embassy on American Independence Day. Students arrived armed with the necessary things to defeat the police activity to maintain public order, such as marbles to throw under the hoofs of the troopers' horses, long sticks that could be used as offensive weapons- 
And gasolene. I will have more to say about gasolene in this context in a moment. It is unfair to suggest that on that occasion all the police were prejudiced against the demonstrators, when anyone would know that there was a distinct possibility that a policeman on duty could find that his own son was among the demonstrators. These men go there to do their duty, and they do it as instructed by their superiors. I believe that we, in the Parliament of the nation, should be the last to help to undermine the confidence of the community in the police forces that we employ to do the job which the rest of the community desires them to do, , which needs to be done and which we are not in a position to do ourselves. 
When we get back to the basic philosophy in relation to this matter, namely, that the end justifies the means, I believe that we should consider one of the simplest and one of the first incidents in this field. A victory was claimed, particularly by  Dr Cairns  of the Labor Party, in that he defeated a law in Melbourne which bad for its purpose the prevention of the littering of the streets, and that he and anyone else are now free to distribute whatever leaflets they like to anyone, whether the people concerned want to receive them or not, on the streets of Melbourne. It was put before the people as a great principle of democracy that people should have this right and that the anti-litter law should not interfere with it. Let us analyse this point. In this country we have always had the right to distribute literature of any shape or form and to advocate anything that we want to advocate. We used to do it in the Australian Labor Party, as did people in the other political parties. We worked hard putting leaflets into people's letter boxes where people could find them. We distributed them in an orderly manner. The people could take them out of their letter boxes and read them, if they so desired, or throw them away. 
But that was not considered sufficient. People had to be able to get into a high concentration of population, which made it so much easier for those who wished to express their point of view to do so. I do not blame them for wanting to do that. But was it for the public good that, because one person,  100  persons or  1,000  persons wanted to express their point of view to other people by means of printed literature, placing leaflets in people's letter boxes was considered not- a sufficient right and privilege and they had to be enabled to do it, whether people wanted the leaflets or not, in a public place by thrusting them in front of every passer-by? From practical experience we know that  90  per cent of passers-by refuse to accept leaflets and they drop to the footway, which creates public litter which has to be cleared at public expense. 
I disagreed with  Dr Cairns.  I thought that in the public interest it was a perfectly reasonable law. Had there been no other method of distributing propaganda or had people been denied the right, as they are in Communist or Fascist countries, to send leaflets through the post or to deliver them personally, then perhaps the principle was at stake. But in this country the principle of free expression of opinion was never at stake.  Dr Cairns  and his followers succeeded. 1 believe that the Melbourne City Council was unwise to alter its anti-litter law. under the pressure that was exerted upon it by demonstrators such as  Dr Cairns  and by the media which,  Senator James  McClelland suggested in his speech, will sool the police on to indulge in their prejudices. Of course, the media were behind  Dr Cairns  on this issue. I did not agree with him because I did not think the end justified the means. 
Let me take that point a step further. We who are in politics should know and understand that most municipalities today have a by-law that forbids people using loud speakers in going around the streets, screaming out about what a great candidate this person, that person or the other person is, and issuing political propaganda very loudly, mostly at about 6 or 7 o'clock at night - a time when most people are home or hear it and most mothers are trying to get their babies to sleep. The local councils in many areas, in their wis dom, have banned this practice. To this day I do not know that it has been challenged to any extent. In this country you can advance your political opinions on street corners, providing you do not block the traffic. You can advance them on radio or television programmes if you have the money. In this country you can put on political propaganda in a way that is not permitted in many other countries. We as politicians and members of political parties have not the right to disrupt the lives of families throughout the whole community by using blaring loudspeakers so that people would have to hear whether they wanted to hear or not. Why should we tell them at  6  o'clock or  7  o'clock of an evening what a lot of good fellows we are? I think the by-law is correct and sensible.  1  come now to the vexed question of moratoriums. I have little or no experience of them. I have observed only from afar people who participate in moratoriums. I believe that if you want to put a view on politics, conscription or anything else you have a right to do so in this country in an orderly way. However, I do  not  believe that people should take over the streets when the rest of the community wants to use them to get to and from their places of employment. Public life is disrupted just so that certain people can be heard, whereas people who want to hear them could do so at any time. The underlying principle is that such people are not satisfied with being heard only by people who wish to hear them. They are not satisfied with demonstrating only amongst people who wish to be affected by such activity. The principle is: 'You will listen or observe whether you like it or not'. Demonstrators insist on interfering with the public rights of others. 
I have said already that I have little knowledge of people who take part in moratoriums as not many of my friends are amongst their numbers. I concede to  Senator Cavanagh  that he is the expert in this field because he has told us that he is a vital leader of moratoriums. For that reason I respect his opinion as to why people take part in moratoriums, but I am rather horrified by it. I shall remind honourable senators of his opinion. In the course of his remarks he referred to the people against whom we now seem to be reluctant to protect ourselves and the community.  Senator Cavanagh,  the expert, said this: 
This may be because of our better communications, because of our better transport system or because young people seek a let-out for their adventurism in group activities. 
I think we would all concede that'. That is the way of the young. Many decent young boys and girls join the boy -scout, girl guide or church organisations. They join cricket and football teams. The principle is well established.  Senator Cavanagh  went on: - lt is far better to have these people demonstrating in the main street "of a capital, city or to have them sitting in the main street of a capital city- 
The honourable senator is not there- referring to girl guides, boy scouts, cricketers or footballers. He is speaking of moratory kim demonstrators. I think that is obvious. Now that we have straight the people he is referring to  I  will repeat what he said: lt is- far better  to  have these people demonstrating in the mam street of a capital city or to have them silting in the main street of a capital city than to nave them gathering in groups to engage in thuggery and pack rape. -This .is what we are likely to achieve if we drive, them away from the supervision ' that is' exercised on occasions such as the moratorium demonstrations. 
I how to the expert who so describes the people who have been engaging in demonstrations, because I have little or no knowledge of. such people. Should we let these people take over the public streets on great public issues because they have become imbued with a philosophy that people who do not like a law should be able to break it? I take issue with  Senator Kennelly,  who said: 'Do not pass any laws that people will break because they are bad laws.' 
I invite  Senator O'Byrne  to read this morning's Melbourne newspapers in which are reports of 2 young men before the courts. Evidence has been given of their recorded statement about a most malicious and brutal murder of a young girl aged 15 years. They said that they desired to go out and get a chick and kill her. The Jaw against murder is a law that some people break. The. honourable senator says that there should not be a law that anybody will break. I know what he means. He means that it is a matter of personal judgment and. degree. But is that so? The honourable senator says that he would only approve the breaking of laws with which he disagrees, but it is not possible to stand halfway. If you enunciate in this community the philosophy that when you do not like a law you do not try to have it changed by legal and orderly methods, but you illegally and unlawfully go out and break that Jaw, and if there are distorted minds with the idea that for personal satisfaction and to indulge their personal instincts it is necessary to 'kill a chick', you stand condemned that you concede to them the same right to break the law that inhibits them as you concede to yourself the right to break the law that inhibits you in another, and perhaps in your opinion, less serious situation.  Senator O'Byrne  is interjecting but he cannot talk that principle down because it has existed for as long as has British law, to the benefit not only of the people of England but also of people in this country and every other country in the world that has accepted British law as the cornerstone of an orderly existence. 

 Senator- Cavanagh has given us a lead about demonstrators, in moratoriums. He has told us that if they are driven from the streets, and demonstrations; in the back streets they will take to thuggery and rape. I have not said that. It was said by  Senator Cavanagh,  who is the expert. If the basic philosophy is accepted that a law considered as bad should be broken by the person who holds that view, we have no law; we have no law on public order; no law on property; no law on the rights of man; no law against rape; no law to protect women and children and the weak in our community and no law even against murder itself. People holding such a philosophy would pull down the whole framework of our civilisation in the interests of a political creed based on the premise that the. end justifies the means. That is the philosophy we are dealing with. That is the philosophy behind the principle that if you do not like a law you break it. 
I wish to examine some other occasions dissociated from moratoriums. I have in mind occasions that have received a lotmore public prominence in recent weeks. I refer, for example, to the incident in the Commonwealth Parliamentary Offices in Melbourne described last night by my colleague  Senator McManus.  By far the most significant act on that occasion was that taken against a young lady. I would protect her as a member of the same industrial organisation - the Federal Clerks Union - and would expect members of the Australian Labor Party to back me in hat regard. She was told by these thugs - they are still thugs even though they engage in demonstrations: 'Stand in the corner and you will be safe.' It was a terrorising experience for a young lady when 30 thugs broke into her office where she has a right to the fullest and toughest protection that our laws can provide. She is entitled to protection first as a woman in the community and second as a worker doing her job, irrespective of whether she was working for  Senator O'Byrne,  for me or for  Senator McManus. 
I wish to refer to the demonstrations which took place in the city of Melbourne against the visiting South African - tennis players. There are people in this country who agree .with me that the. apartheid laws of South Africa are wrong. As much as I disagree, with those laws-and I take every opportunity to express my personal antipathy towards racism in any shape or form- I say that any man who will run in front of a young girl who is unprotected in a- strange country which she is visiting for the purpose of playing in a competitive sport, and any man who would adopt a threatening attitude to such a girl and say to her that she was not to play because her government has a policy with which he disagrees, is not a man; he is a mongrel. He ought to be dealt with by the authority of the law. If the law is inadequate in any way in this respect, we should see that the law is altered so that such a person who would use his strength and his masculinity to terrorise a young girl for something with which she has no association is dealt with like the animal that he is. That girl may be as conscientiously opposed as I am to racism in all its shapes and forms. 
Now we must get down to the technicalities. The unfortunate reason why we must tamper with the laws that have stood us in such good stead for so long is that today the people who are breaking these laws are being skilfully and carefully directed, particularly by members of the legal fraternity who know the ropes. What I have just described is what happens when such people seek to interfere in a tennis match because some young ladies playing in the tournament represent a country that has a policy of racism. It is a strange thing that these people do not interfere to the same degree with the Moscow Circus because of the racism that exists in Russia.. The Moscow Circus and the Russian Ballet are able to come here. Some demonstrations are held. But when 2 girt tennis players come from South Africa- 
Yes, they were almost children. They were singled out for campaigns throughout Australia. 
 When we get to this point we must analyse how these people go about achieving their purpose and what are the techniques that they are' advised to use. Let us assume that the. South African cricket team is playing at the Melbourne Cricket Ground. The demonstrators are told: 'Do not stand there silently with placards saying "Down with Apartheid". That is not the practice any more.' These people are told by their legal advisers' not to go into the ground, having paid the admission charge, and jump over the fence to punch one of the players. The player might punch back' and that would hurt. The legal advisers do not need to tell the demonstrators twice because, invariably, those in this fraternity are cowards. They do not do that. 
What is more, these people are told by their legal advisers - all of this advice is free - that they should not do this because if they do they will be charged with an offence and will come within the ambit of the laws of assault. What they are advised to do is to sit in the grandstand with a mirror and, when a fast bowler is delivering a ball, to reflect the sun's rays into the eyes of the batsman. They are told that they cannot be arrested for doing that. This is what these demonstrators do. This is what they did to the South African tennis players at the Kooyong tennis courts in Melbourne. With people sitting in the grandstand reflecting the sun's rays into their eyes is it any wonder that those players could not perform to the best of their ability. 
The situation with which the community and the Government is trying to deal is not one that has arisen casually, lt is a highly skilfully organised campaign which has behind it some of the best propaganda brains in the world to teach these demonstrators bow to go about their tasks.. Sena. tor Kennelly said that he believed that this law when passed will not be administered and that it will be one that will affect only the small people who will not kick back. I hope not. 1 have a criticism of the administration of these existing laws. Recent cases have proved that the suggestion put by  Senator Kennelly  reflects the attitude that has been adopted by some governments. 1 am critical of what has happened in my own State. Recently, a prominent member of the House of Representatives was at the beach at Lorne engaged in an activity that was contrary to the regulations passed by the local authorities governing the control of good order of that beach. Not unnaturally, that beach is reserved for our citizens - the rich, the poor, the employers and the employees. 
Those people relax at this beach and assemble for the purpose of bathing and so on. There are other places in which to assemble for political purposes and other places to which people may be invited free of charge to hear what, one has to say about any question affecting Australia or the rest of the world today. But, no! Adhering to the philosophy that it does not matter whether people go to such places and listen to what is said, this prominent person and others decided that they would go down to where people were assembled in an area reserved by by-law for purposes of their own entertainment and amusement and that they would earbash those people whether or not they liked it. Three university students were dealt with under the law in this case but the member of the Federal Parliament was not even charged. 

 - Dr Cairns who, because of his magical touch, never is charged himself. A reference was made- 
 I well know the events of the other occasion to which  Senator McManus  refers. Indeed, the main offender on that occasion was a former friend of the good doctor.  Dr Cairns  was the main sufferer. He was bashed over the head. The offender was charged and released on bail. He disappeared. No case has ever been brought to trial in this matter and there are those citizens who are wondering why the offender has not been arraigned and why no case has been brought. . 
J do not know who the basher was, but he was not a friend of mine; he was a former friend of the good  Dr Cairns  himself. I do not agree with the administration of the law in this manner. I do not care whether the person concerned in breaking the law occupies the position that I do here or whether he sits where you sit,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  If the laws of the community are broken, we should be as vulnerable as is any other person in the community. I hope that in the future and in the administration of this. Bill when it becomes law there will be no special rights and privileges for those who consider themselves above the law and for those who have a greater responsibility to obey the law because they are entrusted by the community with the responsibility of making laws. 
I believe that the necessity for our community to re-examine the laws governing law and order has been proven because of the frightening blackmail of individuals that has occurred. 
I wish to refer to an incident which occurred in Australia some little time ago. In another age and in another country a similar incident was the flashpoint of an international war; that was the attempted assassination of a Serbian prince. I refer to the visit to Australia of a  President  of the United States of America. Two misguided brothers who, because they were alleged to be intelligent young men doing university courses, should have known that a visiting dignitary such as a  President  of the United States would be accompanied by armed guards to protect his security in an intensely crowded area, by their actions ran the risk of those guards opening fire on them thus involving women, children and babes in arms around them. These young men threw bags of paint at the presidential car. 
Does the honourable senator support that? No, he will not say he supports it. He wants to interject and then cowardly run away from the imputation of his interjection. He would not support the proposition that anybody should take such a risk in the streets of Melbourne. But what was the recourse of the community at large under the law as it existed on that occasion? The people concerned could only be charged with a minor offence. Yet by their very act they had involved the safety and security of dozens of innocent bystanders who were merely there to pay their respects to the head of a great and friendly neighbourly country. On that occasion those concerned had many other ways in which they could have expressed their disapproval of his country, of him as an individual, of his policies or anything else without involving the security of those about them. 
 1  cannot recall. If they were, the penalty was of such a minor nature that it made practically no difference. I understand that it made no difference to the payment by this Government of the university allowance, which they were being paid at the time of the deed. I believe it should have. 
The honourable senator puts the suggestion that we should not have law and order to prevent this action but that we should just run over them. I do not agree with the proposition that we should run over them. I leave that to the minds of the people whom  Senator Cavanagh  outlined as being engaged in moratoriums. I share with  Senator Kennelly  a responsibility on behalf of the people of Victoria and particularly the city of Melbourne, for the administration of the Melbourne Cricket Ground. Quite recently we had an incident there when  demonstrators  and people who paint slogans got into the ground at night and with acid scarred a slogan right 'across the arena of the Melbourne Cricket Groundin spite of all  Senator Kennelly  said I am certain that if he could have got hold of those people he would have dealt with them far more stringently than any law in this country is capable of dealing with them. I am certain that if they had desecrated or destroyed property at the Albert Park Lake Reserve in' which the honourable senator has a particular interest or had destroyed government property as students destroyed government property at the Monash University, the : honourable senator - knowing him over a lifetime and his respect for law and order- would have been one of the first persons, as a man responsible for. the administration of that Reserve, to be down at the local police station clamouring to have those people behind bars where they justly ' belong. Knowing that about the honourable senator I accept with a lot of reservation many of the other remarks he made about this Bill. In this day and age, because we are better educated and because we spend more money in elevating and improving the minds of the generation which. is to accept responsibility in this nation and succeed us, we should be able to do away with some of the laws to maintain public order which we have. But instead of seeing evidence around us that we are approaching a phase in the development of mankind when we can do that, almost with bitter disappointment in our hearts arid certainly with great concern we are forced to strengthen and make more stringent the laws regarding public order and the protection of persons, particularly the weak and the womenfolk in our community. That is what we are doing in this Bill. 
Down through history it has -been said by many philosophers that the civilisation which cannot protect the rights of the babes, the weak and the women in its community fails to be a civilisation at all. For my book, much as it gives me remorse, I shall support this legislation because there is evidence in our community that there are those who are organised behind the banners of the philosophy that the ends justify the means and behind the slogan that if one does not like a law then go out and break it. In answer to those people who are organising behind us and who are not, perhaps, the smaller people who actually break the law, I say that we should pass this law. I am sure that the Government will administer it with full weight until we make it quite obvious to those who will break our laws that the rest of the community will not tolerate that standard. 
I was invited by  Senator Kennelly  as a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, the corner Party, to take part in the discussion on clause 6 as it is the DLP which will decide whether this clause is included in the measure. I was invited to recall to mind some past events. Because  Senator Kennelly  invited me to do so I allowed my memory to stray back over incidents which might substantiate the need for this clause. 
I was in the Party at the time of everything I am about to recall. You were also in the Party and if you listen to my recounting of certain memories I have no doubt thai you will agree that provisions such as those in this clause have been used often by governments of every political colour, including the Government led by Ben Chifley which you and I supported. Indeed, they have been used in the domestic affairs of the Party to which  Senator Kennelly  still belongs and I no longer belong. I will recall that in the Labor movement we had a very strong principle in relation to the right to strike. I still subscribe to that principle because I am still a trade unionist. What I have to say about the Labor movement is relative to this legislation because the Labor Party has said that there is no need to change any laws; that there is no need to strengthen the laws. The Labor Party ignores completely the fact that in the community today is an organised force that is undermining our society by using the weaknesses that exist in the present law to carry demonstrations far beyond the peak they have ever previously reached - far beyond the limitations of reasonable and peaceable assembly to the stage where violence has occurred. It has been proven that the law is inadequate to apprehend the people who have been engaged in that violence. 
I may have to recount certain incidents to refresh the minds of members of the Labor Party but I am certain that members of the great listening public outside this Parliament tonight do not need to hear a reiteration of events that occurred outside the offices of the American Information Service in Melbourne. Windows were broken and marbles were thrown under horses' hooves. Quite recently in Melbourne sporting events have been disrupted and young girls have been threatened and almost pushed off tennis courts by demonstrators allegedly demonstrating for something in which they believe, but engaging in the sort of mental violence against people that is very hard to tabulate. There have been great numbers of such incidents by organised forces. 
When the late Ben Chifley decided that the sacred right in the Labor movement, the right of workers to strike, was being violated by what he described as the organised forces of the Communist philosophy in this country, he sent the troops into the coal mines and passed the necessary laws to confiscate the books of the Communist Party right throughout this country. He did so because he had a reasonable apprehension that the Communist Part as an organised force was abusing a right and principle that the Labor Party to which he belonged had stood for over the years. I move from that sort of political incident involving a Labor Government of which  Senator Kennelly  and I were both supporters and I will refresh his memory about events in the post-war years. 
In conjunction with the British Government the Australian Government conducted a defence project at the rocket range at Woomera. The Communist Party and left wing union officials issued threats that by the application of black bans on the labour force in that project they would stultify the project that was being conducted in the interests of the people. The late  Dr Evatt,  then Attorney-General, was charged on behalf of the Labor Government to produce legislation to stop what the Labor Government reasonably apprehended to be disruption of a major project which was being conducted in the interests of the Australian people. 
The stringent conditions of the special legislation that was introduced would make the clause we are discussing look like a pale copy of a Sunday school text book. The legislation provided for a fine of £1,000 or 1 years gaol simply for the mention of the imposition of a black ban. That is one provision I call to mind in the legislation that both  Senator Kennelly  and I supported in those days. So let us get away from reasonable apprehension not being used as part of legislation passed by a Federal Labor Government. Let us turn to the domestic affairs of the Labor Party.  Senator Kennelly  will remember the occasion when my colleagues and I who sit in this corner as the Democratic Labor Party were charged with an offence within the Labor Party machinery. We were charged with the shocking offence that we had been controlled by an outside influence. 
Nobody has ever said what the outside influence was. We were not found guilty of that offence.  Senator Kennelly,  who supported the final decision, well knows of what offence we were found guilty.  Mr Chamberlain  of the Labor Party drafted the charge and it was supported by people like  Senator Kennelly.  They said: 'There is no evidence to show that they are controlled by an outside influence, but we feel that they are guilty of a frame of mind.' That is what they said about us in the Labor movement. For that offence the most extreme penalties of the Labor movement were imposed on us. But not for that alone. I do not want to mislead anybody. We sent delegates to the Federal Conference of the Labor Party in Tasmania. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party would not support the contention that has been put forward by  Senator Murphy  on this question. 1 do not wish to deal with the points  Senator Greenwood  has dealt with. I am no lawyer, thank goodness. After what I have heard for the last couple of days it would appear to me that if somebody is arrested, under the terms of this Bill, for sitting in the middle of the street neither the court nor the jury would be concerned with their criticism of the Government or anyone else. They would be charged with the crime of sitting in the street, and that is all the evidence that would be submitted to the jjury to prove they were guilty of the offence. The purpose that they had in mind in sitting in the street and breaking the law has nothing more to do with the jury than it has to do with me or anybody else who might happen to be present. They may be laying in the street because they are drunk, and they then would be submitted to the same sort of charge. Again the jury would not be concerned so much with the fact that they were laying there drunk but that they were obstructing the traffic by laying in the middle of the roadway. The police would have to remove them and charge them with the offence of being drunk and disorderly. If they were tried by a jury the offence would still be to the fact that they were laying in the middle of the street obstructing the traffic - if those were the circumstances. 
I do not see that the high sounding arguments that  Senator Murphy  puts up because people are opposed to a government, either here or in some other remote part of the world, and they chose to lay down in the middle of the street and obstruct the traffic to exhibit their objection to a particular government those facts would interest either a judge or a jury if they were charged with obstructing the traffic by sitting in the street. The only relevant questions would be: Were they sitting in the street? Were they guilty of that? I do not see how the jury could cither accept or dismiss a charge because it thought that the law under which the charge was laid was a good or a bad law, or that any jury would go to the extent to which I am certain  Senator Cavanagh  would go.  Dr Cairns  told him that there were such things as good laws and bad laws whether he had a part in making them or not. 
I certainly do not. I believe there is the law and the law is there to be obeyed by all. If we disagree with the law there are procedures in a democratic society by which we should change the law. But we should not go out and defy the law because in the estimation of a person such as  Senator Cavanagh  some minor law is unnecessary and therefore a bad law. 
During my speech on the second reading of this Bill I cited to the honourable senator only the other day the case of 2 young men in Melbourne who wanted to kill a girl. They thought the law that prevented them was a bad one so they went out and broke it. The honourable senator says: 'But that is different'. It is just a matter of degree in that their minds operate perhaps in a different fashion than does the honourable senator's. Once we break down the capacity of the law and respect for the law there is no limitation to which that disrespect for the law can be carried. I suggest that the proposition that for minor offences, such as sitting in the street and obstructing traffic, there has to be a trial by jury because it can be said that some people do this for the purpose of criticising a government, either here or abroad, is a ridiculous proposition from anybody, and it is most certainly a ridiculous proposition from a lawyer. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. I will make a few comments on the specific project rather than on railways in general. The Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who is represented in this chamber by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator 
Cotton), is to be congratulated for providing us with the maps which accompanied his second reading speech. They have helped those of us who have only a slight knowledge of the Darwin area. I have no knowledge at all of the area, remote from Darwin proper, where the railway line is to be constructed. In terms of the size of the southern capital cities it is not remote from the city proper, but it is in the case of Darwin. The maps enable us to visualise the local circumstances. I believe it is high time that the loading dock at Fort Hill for iron ore and pellets was shifted. I note that this may be an ultimate part of the development programme, which includes construction of the spur line, that the Government proposes. 
I visited Darwin with the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution. We took evidence of the tremendous amount of air pollution resulting from loading facilities there, particularly from the port facilities for iron ore at Fort Hill. Great inconvenience and danger to health are being caused there. The area adjacent to that on which the spur line is to be developed is an industrial area. I have no knowledge of the terrain, but looking at the map, if it is drawn anywhere near to scale, it is about 10 to 12 miles by road from the centre of Darwin's population, and about 8 miles from the present airport around which is quite a sizeable population. Having regard to the very rapid development of that area, and noticing that there are 2 sea fronts to the East Arm spur of land, it seems to me that residential areas could be developed there with the installation of more port facilities in the Quarantine Island area of East Arm. 
If an industrial area is also to be developed there, quite a deal of thought should be put into town planning to avoid a repetition of the lack of thought given to the development of Darwin proper. Like Topsy, it just grew. With mineral development right throughout Australia, and particularly in our northern areas, Darwin must continue to develop rapidly. Nobody can accurately forcast today the size of Darwin in 50 or 100 years. With small beginnings, such as the spur line to be financed under this Bill, we should be alerted to making Darwin as it grows one of the greatest tourist attractions we have. Facilities can be improved to provide the personal comfort necessitated by the Darwin climate. As the population increases, provision should be made for development of tourist facilities. 
I noticed with some concern in the Minister's second reading speech that there is to be a further 50 chains of railway on Quarantine Island which will have the status of a private siding because it will be built on land not controlled by the Commonwealth Railways Commission. I would like to know whether it is to be controlled by the Commonwealth, although not by the Commonwealth Railways Commission, or by private enterprise. It could cause some problems if it were left in private hands. Honourable senators are familiar with the situation that arose in the United States in the early days of the development of its railways. Darwin might well be now at a similar stage of development. In the United States the private ownership of land upon which railways were built created tremendous problems and a great opportunity for individuals to cash in on public moneys spent in the development of railway systems. I think the Commonwealth would be well advised to acquire the land for the stretch of railway on Quarantine Island, in the interests of the people of Darwin, the Northern Territory and the Commonwealth as a whole. I repeat that no one can accurately imagine what Darwin will be like in 50 years time. 
We are glad to see that the Commonwealth is developing this area and is prepared to spend money on it. My Party holds the opinion that the tropical coastline of the Northern Territory has great development potential. Its accessibility is improving all the time as transport methods are made more efficient. It should no longer be regarded as the outback, as it was in the days when motor cars were the most modern form of transport. We are among those who believe that in the interests of Australian taxpayers and of Australia itself this area must be developed rapidly. In a world that will be short of living space at some future time, this area must be developed in the interests of the people of the world. Australia has the responsibility to ensure that such areas should be capable of providing good living conditions, particularly for people who are used to Asian conditions. A population almost equal to the present total population of Australia could exist at some future time along this tropical coastline of the Northern Territory.  With  those rather imaginative thoughts in mind, I commend the Government for the Bill and indicate that my Party will support its passage. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports this measure. Like other honourable senators, it has become a.ware of the division within the industry. Indeed, it would seem that the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation - the Commonwealth body - represents the majority of pig producers throughout Australia although there does appear to be a considerable number in Victoria and some in Queensland who are still associated with the Victorian Farmers Union. The first principle that we came up against as parliamentarians legislating in the interests of the pig producers, the country and the national economy in general is the necessity to establish the Pig Industry Research Committee which will undertake research to assist this industry. I think this is a matter of some urgency. 
Whilst it has been said that there has been a rapid growth in pig numbers - from something like 1 million to 2 million pigs - in a period of some 13 to 16 years, this is not actually something on which the nation should compliment itself, particularly when one analyses the trading opportunities that have developed, particularly within the Asian areas, during this time. There is tremendous potential to double and treble our pig meat exports, if the industry can be lifted to an acceptable international standard. Pork is one of the most popular items of diet throughout the Asian countries and, as those countries become more prosperous as a result of their developing economies, Australia's potential to increase the export of this product will develop enormously. This is not an industry which can be successfully conducted in confined spaces, such as exist m many of the Asian countries that could be potential customers. The pressures of their own development may curtail somewhat their capacity to produce pig meats, whereas Australia has ideal circumstances. 
The production of pig meat in Australia could assist many of our declining rural industries. While many primary producers ere today contending that they have solved some of their problems by switching from wheat and wool to beef, because the beef industry has not been affected as much as the other primary industries, it could very well be that, as an alternative means of diversification, the pig industry offers tremendous opportunities if we take the trouble to act. For that reason alone the setting up of this research body should not be delayed because of some differences within the industry amongst the people who are most concerned. Those pig producers to whom I have spoken are concerned not so much with the setting up of the Research Committee, the costs involved or the levy itself as they are that the administration and application of this legislation might fall into too few hands. In their discussions with me, the pig producers have all agreed that it is necessary for research to be carried out and for the costs to be met. 
I should like to draw the attention of the Minister to the composition of the Research Committee itself. Clause 9 of the Pig Industry Research Bill provides that the Committee shall consist of 6 persons representing the organisation known as the Australian Commercial Pig Producers Federation, 2 persons representing the organisation known as the Australian Agricultural Council and various' other persons who are nominated. But as the Minister's second reading speech indicates, the representatives of the Commercial Pig Producers Federation and of the Australian Agricultural Council will constitute a majority of those persons who will actually administer the functions of the Committee. They will make recommendations as to what the amount of the levy shall be. They will, of course, be limited by the ceiling of 10c a pig but they can determine the levy at any figure below that amount. 
However, one body, which has been making representations of this matter, does not seem to be represented on the Research Committee unless it is by the 2 persons who will represent the Australian Agricultural Council. It could be said that the easy way out for the members of that body would be for them to forget their identity and join the Commercial Pig Producers Federation, thus gaining representation through that federal body which has the major representation on the Committee, but I wonder whether it is right for the Parliament to impose its will to that extent on people who belong to a voluntary organisation within the industry and to penalise that section of the industry by having it not represented on the Research Committee which will administer the industry. If this section is not represented I think that naturally there will be objections. I am prepared to accept that this body does not represent the majojrity of pig producers throughout Australia because it would seem that in most of the States the pig producers are now organised into the federal body and have no objection to it. However, in Victoria and, to a lesser degree, in Queensland some producers object to the Commercial Pig Producers Federation and its constitution. This prevents complete harmony in the industry and because of that disharmony I think it would be a fairer consideration if some representation had been allowed for in this Bill - although it has not been sought - for those people who are not members of the Commercial Pig Producers Federation. 
Members of the Democratic Labor Party believe that it is in the interests of the industry and of the national economy that these Bills should be passed. We have not yet had time to consider the effects of the amendments that have been foreshadowed by the Australian Labor Party. As we have now been supplied with copies of the amendments, we will consider them, and at the appropriate time in the Committee stage will make known our opinions of them. However, we support the legislation. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria.) (3.52) - I have been listening with a great deal of interest to  Senator Webster  and  Senator Little  and other honourable senators discussing the question of pigs. I feel that perhaps I can contribute something to this debate because I breed pigs and have done for many years. I am possibly the only senator in this place at this time who knows something about them. I rise at this juncture to take up only 2 observations which were made, firstly by  Senator Webster  and secondly by  Senator Little.  They are related observations but they do not coincide.  Senator Little  spoke about producing pigs to an acceptable international standard. The question I ask is: What is an acceptable international standard? The type of pig that might be wanted in Japan or China would not be the type of pig that would be wanted if we could have access to the European Common Market. 
The present problem in the Australian pig industry is that the stud breeders, who produce the foundation stock for the industry, have their eyes pretty clearly fixed on the type of market to which the industry should be directed, but the people who claim, in  Senator Webster's  terms, to have 98 per cent of the pigs in Australia are not market oriented. They are production oriented. The great problems of the past, the great problems of the present and the great problems of the future in Australian primary industry relate to the possibility of producing the articles and commodities that the market requires. All the research in the world aimed at increasing farrowing levels - increasing litters per sow per year - and investigations into foodstuffs and so forth and so on will be useless unless there is a clear and coherent quality in the mind of the marketing authority and the people controlling the research funds about what the market requires. The market has to be sought. Whatever the standard in various parts of the world, unless we specifically pursue that type of market, all the money we use for research will have little effect. Nevertheless, subject to what I have said, I commend the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education, and Science. Has the Government's attention been drawn to a decision of the La Trobe University Students' Representative Council at a general meeting last Wednesday to donate 2 amounts of $100 to moratoriums and a sum qf $200 to the National Liberation Front in Vietnam? Is the Government aware that the Council's funds are built up from a compulsory levy called a 'General Service Fee' to which university authorities apportion amounts of government money made available to the students through State and Federal government scholarships for student education? What, steps does this Government propose to take to stop government money being so channelled into subversive activities designed not only to kill Australian soldiers whom the Government has committed in Vietnam but also to promote the NLF aggression in Laos, Cambodia and Thailand? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports these 3 Bills and congratulates the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  for saving the Senate's time by bringing them on together. In the essential fact of spending money on education they are identical, but in the different ways in which they propose to make grants to the States they each have a slightly different purpose, although all deal with education. The DLP supports the idea of a better education system and always has. Indeed, we can look back on a system that has been immeasurably improved in our own lifetime. At one time a person was very fortunate if he went to school beyond the age of 14 and 15 years and the possibility of a university education for anybody who belonged to what might be broadly described as a working class or middle class family was almost non-existent. But within one generation we have reached the stage where almost anybody who has the capacity is entitled to and gets tremendous assistance to have a university education that may take him through to his early 20s before it is required that he should obtain useful or gainful employment 
The DLP stands for that but it is a little worried that in spite of the tremendous leap forward we have made in a generation in this field it is obvious that a very small minority of the young people today are unappreciative of what has been done and tend to abuse and destroy the opportunities that are being made available to them. I am amongst those people who are horrified when they see photographs in the newspapers of places like Monash University, which was built quite recently - lovely buildings - at great Government expense, with slogans painted willy-nilly over the walls and government property destroyed. The cost of the damage is estimated to be $500 or $1,000. The students who have destroyed this public property which has been created for their use, the use of their generation and the generations to follow them then get a placard and scrawl on it: 'More money for education'. They then go out, march up and down the streets and complain about the generation gap and the fact that people do not understand them. 
I repeat that this is the attitude of a very small minority but, as this problem has been deepening and becoming more complex as the years have gone by, we feel that the time is over-ripe when governments must take some action, in the interests not of the older generation who have made quite considerable sacrifices to provide these opportunities but of the generation that is receiving the opportunities and those who will succeed them, to see that whatever problems young people feel they have they respect the property that is available to them for the purpose for which it was created - the education of students. This property is not theirs to destroy, because generations will follow who will also have the right, we hope, to use the facilities that we are providing. 
I maintain that this generation gap which is supposed to be responsible for so many ills does not really exist. I find no evidence to substantiate this amongst the members of good families who keep close together. I thought that there was a far greater generation gap when I was a young person when young people were supposed to be seen and not heard. Today members of families share their conversation; they share their knowledge; they share their interests with each other. The exception is in isolated cases where somebody - perhaps a parent - is falling down on his job. In my view, it is from these sources that we get this small vocal, noisy and noticed element that is giving the mass of young people a very bad name in the estimation of the older generation. The vast number of young people do respect the chances they have and are appreciative of the opportunities that are opening up before them to help them deal with the complexities of life in this modern age. We say to the Government that the time is long past when toleration of extremism is the solution to this problem. We believe that the opportunities for education must be granted only to those who accept them and who prove that they have the responsibility to make use of them in their own interests and in the interests of the nation. 
I agree with what  Senator Wheeldon  said about the education of children merely for the use of big business. I have never approved of that. But I think one can become over-enthusiastic and rather fanatical until the stage is reached where as has happened, some academics say that nobody should be educated for anything that is at all practical, that people should be educated for whatever they want to do. But we do live in an integrated community where no man is an island and each is dependent upon his fellow man. It is quite useless for us to send thousands of young people to the university to become philosophers or poets if nobody wants to employ philosophers or poets. Ii we did that, we would only be building up great tragedies for young people who may spend 3, 4 or 5 of the most important years of their life studying something that does not assist them in the general responsibility which we all have, namely, to earn a living for ourselves and for those who happen to be dependent upon us in order to see that a generation follows us. I suppose that fundamentally that is the primary responsibility of each and every one of us. I do not think that any individual should be able to drift off as an island on his own and say: 'I do not care if nobody wants to buy my philosophy after I have learned all about it. That is what I am going to be'. Then there are complaints because in our integrated society he finds himself living at a much lower level than the level he aspires to and certainly at a much lower level than a more practical person who accepts his primary responsibility to fit in with the scheme of requirements, not only of his own desires, but also of the desires and needs of his fellow man. 
We are among those people who counsel against extremism on every side. We certainly do not approve of our young people being trained only in technical skills that can be useful to big business. We certainly should discourage the young people who wish to concentrate their attention in areas in which it is obvious there will be a shortage of employment and a low standard of remuneration as compensation for years of study and a long period spent in acquiring the knowledge or skills that they have. In the field of education a philosophy is developing that because we spent too little for too long on education, it is necessary now only to spend more money on education and the problem will be solved. Of course, that is a falsehood. If the money is misspent and energy is misdirected our educational system will be no better than it was before we increased our expenditure on it. By the same token, if we spend money on the provision of facilities for young people, to be used in their interests and the interests of following generations, and those young people destroy the facilities, again we will have achieved nothing merely by spending money on education. 
I have placed those thoughts and philosophies before the Minister to indicate our views  on  expenditure on education. We approve  of  the Bills before the Senate, but we think h  is  high time that more attention was given  to  solving some of the practical problems  and to&lt;  ensuring that money is not misspent  or-  facilities destroyed by young people who may be over-enthusiastic about  a  particular cause at a particular time, In supporting that cause they may think they have  a.  right .to destroy property that is not truly their own but is only for their use  and  the use, if they would only "realise  it, of  their children and their children's children. If the trend continues it will be very bard  to  get our organised society  to  continue  to  accept the responsibility of raising the capital necessary to provide even more facilities and even better education  to  *be generations that are to follow us. 
This Bill merely makes possible the continuation of the current Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement during an emergency period because time itself has prevented the negotiation of the completely new agreement which is now due. In addressing remarks to the Bill rather than to the amendment, there is little that one can say about it. It is a Bill of absolute necessity because without it the Agreement would come to an end at 30th June this year at a time when the Parliament will be in recess. One factor that could be spoken about to some advantage is the rate of interest being charged upon these loans to the States. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  who represents the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in this place reiterated in the second reading speech that the Commonwealth is again offering the advantage of an interest rate at below 1 per cent below the long term bond rate. I put it quite seriously to the Minister - and because there is nothing that can be done to change this  legislation  I have not rechecked my facts and I am depending on my memory - that this has been the attitude from the beginning of these types of agreements when the long term bond rate of interest was much lower, indeed somewhere about half, the present rate. 
If you take 1 per cent from a 4 per cent rate of interest you reduce it by 25 per cent. If you take 1 per cent from 7 per cent you will reduce it by only about 14 per cent, which is a considerable difference in the advantage which is being offered to the States. If one pursues further this line of argument one wonders why we have today a long term bond rate of interest of 7 per cent in this country. It is 7 per cent because we have an economy that is managed by the Commonwealth Government, and should be managed by the Commonwealth Government. The Government has - unquestionably acting on Treasury advice or even pressure - allowed the long term bond rate of interest to expand gradually until it has reached this state of usury where it is now at 7 per cent. Nobody has ever given us a valid reason why this is so except for the sop that it will control inflation. The fact that it has consistently failed to control inflation does not seem to worry anybody at all. People accept as fact the statement that by extending the rate of interest the borrower, who never borrows money unless he has some compulsion within him that makes him require the money or unless he has to have it, will by some mysterious process be discouraged from borrowing and the lender will not be encouraged to lend money because of the higher rate of interest. Every word that has ever been written on economics completely refutes this idea. Of course, that is not so. So true is that, that today there is a tremendous depression even in the valuation of industrial shares. Who wants to produce goods the production of which would help us curb inflation by meeting the amount of currency and credit circulation in the community when, as a result of investing their capital in the production of goods they would be very lucky to get a return of 7 per cent or 8 per cent on their money over a period of years, they can sit back and invest their money in the money lending market! They will have no risks with the purchase of machinery; no risks of industrial strike or anything at all in the production of goods. I refute this argument that higher interest rates will encourage the production of goods to meet the amount of money and credit that is circulating in the community and so help defeat inflation. 
I wish now to refer to John Maynard Keynes' classic book "The General Theory of Employment Interest and Money'. In a chapter entitled 'The Theory of Prices' he said: 
There is evidence that for a period of almost 150 years the long-run typical rate of interest in the leading financial centres was about 5 per cent, and the gilt-edged rate between 3 and 3J per cent. 
That was in a period of the economic history of the industrial revolution over 150 years when banking institutions and financiers ran the economies of countries because they virtually controlled the issuance of credit and indeed by virtue of the fact that they were, like people who have shares today, able to corner the market and they had the monetary resources at their beck and call. They were always too discreet to allow the gilt-edged rate to go beyond 3 to 3i per cent over that period of 150 years and the general rate beyond 5 per cent. 
We have now reached the stage of economic development after monetary collapses and after a depression such as we had in the 1930s when mankind has realised he must have a central governing authority and not a laissez-faire system by which any financier can control the economy, but it shall be a government responsibility. This is now generally accepted throughout the world and devious means are adopted by various governments, through the control of banking and everything else, to introduce effective policies. But what has this meant in Australia? It has meant that a standard rate of interest that has existed in a general sense for 150 years has now gone by the board and we are paying much higher rates of interest. I was entranced with the argument - which is a correct argument - of  Senator Poyser  in relation to prices when he referred to the cost of housing. None of the increases in the prices of the material components which go to make up a house is as expensive to the person who builds the house as the increases that have taken place in the rates of interest, because he pays only once for the 100 per cent increase for the cost of a tap, the timber or the bricks, but he goes on paying the higher interest for 20 years. 
Or longer. If you equate what he has actually paid in increased prices at the conclusion of the purchase of the house the interest rate increase will, because it has been allowed to go up 1 per cent, far exceed any increases which have taken place in the cost of building materials. I appreciate, as  Senator Poyser  said, that no matter how sincere one may be about the interests of the people - and he wants the interest rate for housing to be 4 per cent - one can never reduce the rate of interest on money available for one project when an excessive rate is current in the community over the rest of the field of finance and borrowed money because if the rate for housing is 4 per cent and the other general rate existing in the community is 8 per cent there would not be any money available for housing. It is as simple as that. The lenders would not lend money for housing; and who could blame them? 
Unless we tackle the whole problem of high interest rates in the interests of the nation it is futile to try to tackle them at the level of housing alone because one cannot achieve what one is setting out to achieve. But I suggest to the Government that in spite of these arguments covering the general range it must surely accept the validity of the argument that if 1 per cent below the standard long term bond rate were applicable when the rates of interest were much lower, at least today it should accept the responsibility for the situation that it has created by gradually increasing interest rates to solve the problems of the Federal Treasury. This, of course, is the key that unlocks the door to the CommonwealthState disputation over financial relations. The States have found themselves in their present situation largely because they have been unable to maintain the interest repayments as a result of gradually increasing rates of interest which absorb more than the share of the allocation made by the Commonwealth that they can afford to allocate for interest repayments and still maintain a reasonable development programme. 
Whilst the Commonwealth was reaching a, stage where it was, as the lender to the States, increasing its revenue because the rates of interest were going up the Slates were being improverished by the same set of circumstances, It did not do anybody any good. My argument is proved conclusively by the fact that the Commonwealth was recently forced to wipe off a colossal sum involving millions and millions of dollars because it recognised that the States could not pay their debts. But the Commonwealth has done nothing to alter the system and is in fact now allowing the States almost to become paupers like the inhabitants of the old paupers prisons in England in that they cannot possibly pay the interest rates that are current on the money that has to be borrowed to run a State and yet retain liquidity as far as their finances are concerned. 
That is true. Whatever the local authorities are paying in increased wages and in increased costs of cement and asphalt, this is nothing compared to the increases in their interest bill in the last 10 to 15 years. That is what is crippling them because they have to borrow increasing sums of money because of increased prices and pay higher interest rates for it. 
That brings us then to the amendment to this simple Bill that has been moved by the Opposition. I was interested in this amendment when it was moved by  Senator Poyser  and I was hoping that I would hear him explain how the propositions set out therein would do something to alleviate the very real problems of increased land prices and everything else to which he adverted in his speech. But I cannot see anything in the amendment that will do anything to alleviate the problems I just mentioned. To reiterate the general problems of urban development and housing and to imagine that an expression of opinion by the Senate will mean something is done about it, especially when that opinion is impracticable of administration at this time to begin with, is, I think, unrealistic. 
I believe that some of the fields of activity suggested for the new instrumentality, if it were set up, are not appropriate for the Commonwealth, nor are they ever likely to be and I do not know whether it would be wise if they were ever thought to be appropriate. As we are a States' House charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of the States, I do not think it is for the Senate to suggest that the Commonwealth should intrude into areas which are quite clearly not under its jurisdiction having regard to present circumstances. The amendment states: 
. the Senate, whilst welcoming the advances provided in the Bill- well, that is inevitable - is of opinion that the Commonwealth should establish an appropriate instrumentality to bring about co-operation and co-ordination with the States and local authoritities . . . 
One might almost smile at the idea of an appropriate instrumentality bringing about co-operation and co-ordination with the States. While the fundamentals of the disagreements which I have already outlined exist, particularly with the States becoming still more mendicant every day, the idea that some instrumentality set up to control housing could achieve that aim is unrealistic. But what is the instrumentality that is suggested here? Is it a small or large one? Is it not rather putting the cart before the horse if we set up an instrumentality to do certain things when we have no knowledge of whether the States will cooperate? 
The instrumentality itself can do very little until that co-operation is achieved. Indeed, the Minister himself could do more, first of all, to initiate co-ordination and co-operation by suggesting such an instrumentality rather than actually establishing it. One could envisage, of course, a very extensive department which, because of the range of problems that it would have to deal with, would certainly need a large staff of highly technical experts. It would certainly need this if it were to intrude into the fields which are suggested. This is so because in paragraph (a) it states: ensure that planning authorities are established or developed; 
I think it is generally conceded that most States today have already established planning authorities and whether they are to be developed still further is obviously the responsibility of the States. I think they are doing the maximum that can be expected of them in this direction with the funds that are available to them at the present time. 
Paragraph (b) suggests that the instrumentality will ensure that all lands vested in the States or the Commonwealth will be retained and that private rights to such land are limited to leasehold. We may have some jurisdiction in that regard in the Australian Capital Territory and the other Territories but we have no right to interfere with the States control of Crown land and tell them what they should do with it. I am amazed that this suggestion should come from the Labor Party because there are so many people in the community today who suggest that land should be returned to the Aboriginals. Many Labor Party supporters have played a leading role in the general campaign that is going on to see that this happens. I cannot see that if an instrumentality were set up to achieve this almost impossible suggestion that we ensure that all lands vested in the States or the Commonwealth will be retained. The Aboriginals would have no hope at all of having returned to them the land which they currently claim as their own. I merely cite that as an illustration of the very wide application of such a sweeping proposition as this. Many of us know and appreciate the success of the leasehold system in Canberra, its beginnings and some of the difficulties encountered with the effluxion of time and the changing of price levels. 
The total abolition of any further rights of private ownership of property in this country under any circumstances is not a matter upon which I would suggest the Senate make a decision in a small Bill that is merely an emergency measure to continue housing grants for the States. If we accept the amendment, according to paragraph (c) we are to identify a number of appropriate sites for new cities and cooperate in their development. I do not know whether this paragraph refers to satellite cities for the purpose of urban housing development or to completely new cities. I suppose new cities could be set up for the purposes for which Canberra was set up. One may make an educated guess that there will be a need for some great mineral centre to become a city and pick a better site for it than it might have if allowed to grow of its own volition. But invariably the sites of the cities of the world in the past, and I believe in the future, have been selected by people who decide to live in a certain area in sufficient numbers to develop a place into a city. For a government instrumentality to plan cities in all sorts of places where there may never develop a need for them would absorb, in my view, the time of a great labour force of technical experts. I do not feel that this would achieve what I believe to be the sincere wish of the mover of the amendment. 
Paragraph (d) of the amendment has puzzled the Australian Democratic Labor Party completely. It is clear to us how this appropriate instrumentality could assist in slum prevention but we thing this amendment must have been hastily worded, because we know that it could not have had been the intention of the mover that the instrumentality should assist in slum renewal at the same time as it assists in slum prevention. The wording conflicts. I know that  Senator Poyser  does not stand for slum renewal. I think he means the renewal of the areas which were once slums. But the proposition we are asked to carry does not state that. It states: 
assist in slum prevention and renewal. 
The Democratic Labor Party could not support a proposition to renew any slums. We hope that with the effluction of time we can get rid of some of the slum areas which we have and prevent too many new slum areas being created by unwise housing developments. Paragraph (e) states: 
assist appropriate bodies to carry out comprehensive urban improvement and development. 
That is an excellent principle, but again I question whether this is something in which the Commonwealth should properly be engaged. If it were to do the job properly it would need to be in touch and to work in co-operation with every local government body throughout the Commonwealth. The staff required to set up a body which would be capable of doing that sort of job properly would be immense. It would not be possible for the States to act on a more local basis unless one envisaged the complete disappearance of the States as we know them today. I want to make clear that the Democratic Labor Party does not support the centralisation of power in the Commonwealth. We think that those who are best suited to act as intermediaries between the bodies which are responsible for urban improvement and development, such as local councils, and the proposed instrumentality are rightly the State governments under whose legislation local government operates. It is the State government's first responsibility to take action to assist local governments in any way. 
I and my Party feel that if the Commonwealth were to assist, that should be done by paying more attention to the pressing problems of this country, particularly the problem of inflation. I question some of the ready made remedies which have failed persistently over a period of years to control inflation in any way. Those remedies have merely increased costs and prices and particularly interest rates. I believe that it would be better if money were spent in setting up an instrumentality which could find the basic reasons for the problems and if the proposed instrumentality could not solve any of the problems, at least it could explain to those who are questioning the methods which have been taken to control inflation and the cost of housing why those methods have been adopted. Further, it could make the housing grants to the States go as far as they should. If that were done, we perhaps would be more in agreement with this Bill than we are now. But as I said at the outset, this Bill is absolutely necessary, otherwise the Commonwealth housing assistance to the States would finish in 30th of June while Parliament is in recess. We feel that this is a simple measure which should be carried as it is, but we express our criticism of the interest rates which are involved. We propose to persist in expressing that criticism on every economic measure which the Government brings forward until the Government is prepared to give us better arguments on why Australian interest rates are the highest in the world, thus attracting a flood of overseas currency and capital which are only aggravating the inflationary position and doing nothing to control it. 
We of the Democratic Labor Party have looked at the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party and find ourselves in agreement with it. It expresses concern which we have expressed before. Our concern is not about the Fill aircraft itself. 
We do not consider ourselves sufficiently expert technically to hold an opinion about that aircraft and there seems to be controversy in the circles where expertise exists. As for the method of purchase, it is true, as  Senator Wriedt  said, that this was wrong right from the beginning. Indeed, the original contract never was carried out. Under the original contract Australia was to get an alternative aircraft to use for a period. The Government decided that those aircraft were completely impractical for Australia to have or to use. This was decided about 6 months after the contract was signed. That portion of the contract was considered, at the time of signing, to be one of the most important ingredients, but it was cancelled without further ado in the early days of the development of the Fill. 
As the amendment says, I think the Senate should express its concern at the Government's mishandling of the Fill purchase. It was a bad contract which should not have been signed. Whatever steps have been taken to clean up the contract and, in the interests of Australian defence, to get Australia on a better footing with what should be a friendly nation, have been made very tardily. 
Turning now to the question of the development and effective maintenance of the Australian aircraft industry, we have warned the Government repeatedly not only that this industry is running down but also that skilled personnel are being dispersed. Early this year  Senator McManus  and I went to the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation factory and made a private investigation. We were told, as early as January and February this year, that it would be forced to retrench staff if the Government did not confirm orders that it had more or less assured the Corporation it would be getting. Whether or not those orders have now been confirmed, I do not know; but I do know that skilled personnel are being dismissed from the industry. These people have special techniques and skills in aeronautical engineering but they are being dispersed in the community. Most of them will have no difficulty in obtaining employment elsewhere but they will be reluctant to return to an industry from which they were once retrenched. They will not have sufficient confidence in the industry to give their services to it again. If there is one thing that Australia particularly needs from a defence point of view it is a viable and effective aircraft industry. We believe that the Senate should add this expression to the motion and we propose to support the amendment. 
 I do not' propose to spend long on this Bill because the matter in which I am most interested has been adequately covered by  Senator Webster.  There are a few aspects that I propose to mention because I feel that there are some matters which are very dangerous to our economy' and of particular concern to our cherry growing industry, quite apart from industries engaged in the glazing and crystallising of cherries. First I should like to refer to a ministerial statement on tariff policy by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  from which we can get to the, crux of this matter. I presume that his statement was in response to the clamour which has been going on in country areas for the removal of tariffs in manufacturing industries because of their harmful effect on the price structure and because those engaged in primary production cannot see that their own interests are being properly protected. I do not propose to read the whole statement made by the Minister who, early in his speech, said: 
The sector of the economy which benefits most from tariff protection is undoubtedly manufacturing. However, it should not be overlooked that a very wide range of primary industries also receive some measure- of tariff protection. 
It is to manufacturing industry in particular, and the role of manufacturing in the Australian economy, that consideration must be given in any appraisal ; of tariff policy. Manufacturing provides' some 28 per cent of our gross national product and 28 per cent of total employment 
That is a statement of fact with which I think everybody will agree. Much later in the Minister's statement another excellent concept of policy is set but. I am wondering whether the Government has followed the concept which is established in this statement when the Minister says, as reported at page 21.36 of Hansard: 
The 2 basic principles of the tariff policy of successive Australian Governments have been, first, that the Government itself is responsible for all decisions, and, second, that before reaching its decisions, the Government seeks the advice of an independent Tariff Board. The Government reaffirms support for both of these basic principles. The independence of the Tariff Board will be preserved. 
The first principle of Government responsibility for decision is just as important. The Tariff Board is an advisory body and has never been anything else. The decisions and the responsibility rests with the Government. 
All honourable senators would agree with that. Later in his statement the Minister said: 
Similarly, there cas be highly significant noneconomic implications which a government must take into account in considering the protection to be afforded an industry. Examples are where factories in decentralised locations provide major employment opportunities, or where an industry has defence significance. 
The Government's responsibility, moreover, is not limited to reaching a judgment as to the relative costs and benefits of providing adequate protection for an industry at a particular point in time. A judgment must be made of the likely balance of costs and benefits in the years ahead. Governments cannot make basic decisions affecting important industries without giving most careful thought to the likely results of those decisions. 
Yes, we would all agree with every concept that is set out in the Minister's statement. But how many of these concepts have been included in this Bill in relation to the cherry industry? 
 They were words and not action, because everything that has happened in the sequence of events gives the lie to what appears in the Minister's statement. Whilst the precepts set out in the statement are excellent they were completely ignored by the Government. I do not mind saying to the Senate that we reached the conclusion that there was nothing more to do with this legislation than to amend it to delete from it the reference to cherries, so returning cherries to the position where the Government should have left them, irrespective of the Tariff Board's report. It must be realised that nothing can restore the 6c duty that was recently assessed as a necessary addition to the normal tariff that had been operating since 1935 - a decision which was made by the Special Advisory Author'ity after an exhaustive inquiry into the industry and into a set of circumstances which had applied for some time - but which the Tariff Board's report made null and void. 
I am sorry that  Senator Wright  has left the chamber because I wanted to draw his attention to something. When I interjected when  Senator Webster  was speaking and referred to the exclusion of fresh cherries he said that it was ridiculous to exclude fresh cherries and include other cherries. Yet the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  in his second reading speech, said: 
The Board recommended no change in duties on fresh cherries and removal of duties on drained, glace, crystallised and brined cherries. 
Duties to the extent of  47i  per cent which had existed since 1935 were wiped out by a decision of the Board. I am not criticising the Board. I agree with the Minister's assertion that this was the responsibility of the Government. The Board knew, when it made its recommendation which was based on evidence submitted to it, that the Government could review and examine all the implications of the recommendation. The Minister for Trade and Industry, in his statement on tariff policy, said that the Government would examine recommendations before it made decisions that were likely to disrupt an industry. I submit that such an examination could not have taken place with respect to cherries because hardly had the Board's report been laid on the table when the Government made its decision. It is obvious to anyone who has the slightest interest in this industry that the conclusions which the Board had drawn from some of the evidence submitted to it and, indeed, some of the evidence itself, would not bear serious examination. For that reason the Minister for' Civil Aviation, in introducing legislation to validate the abolition of duties, in effect, said: 'We have grave doubts and the matter has been referred back to the Special Advisory Authority. Last February we received a report from the Tariff Board and we rubber stamped it. We are now upset and have sent the question back to the Special Advisory Authority'. I do not know whether that was all that the Government could do if it realised it had made a mistake. I do not know whether the Government should have accepted the responsibility and restored the situation to make it possible for these industries to survive. 
I advert to the statement on tariff policy which was made by the Minister for Trade and Industry, particularly as it related to manufacturing industries. It is a wrong philosophy for us to consider that in Australia a person must be producing shoes or hats to be regarded as a manufacturing industry. After all, in the manufacture of shoes the hides of beasts that are slaughtered mainly in Australia are converted to leather and, through the application- of labour, are made into shoes. Is there a great difference in transferring a fresh cherry to a glace cherry? This is a manufacturing industry which- is perhaps more closely allied to primary' industry than other manufacturing industries, yet this is one of the manufacturing industries about which the Minister spoke in his statement on tariff policy. If the Government is wise it will do everything in its power to foster industries which are subsidiary to primary industry because they could be the salvation of our gradually deteriorating country towns. ' 
This recommendation of the Tariff Board was approved by the. Government. The Tariff Board did its job as it saw it, but the Government is charged with the responsibilities outlined by the Minister and it did. not take into consideration that the growers' co-operative at Silvan in Victoria had just established an entirely new plant at a cost of $70,000 and had not brined a cherry before the duties, which had existed for 35 years and which it naturally assumed would continue after the plant had been completed and cherries were being processed, were removed and the whole structure of the industry was completely altered as the co-operative had envisaged it when it constructed the plant to process the growers' cherries. 
Yes. The sugar requirement is endangered because the Government's decision will affect not only cherry growers in South Australia, New South Wales and Victoria but also the Queensland sugar industry, which is an essential part of Australia's economy. This was a bad decision. It was not a decision of the Tariff Board but of the Government which adopted a practice which the Minister for Trade and Industry said was undesirable. The Government adopted a practice whereby it says, in effect, that if the Tariff Board makes a recommendation that recommendation must immediately become law and the Government must rubber stamp it without making any further inquiries. That that practice is dangerous is clearly established by 'the results in this particular industry. 
It must be borne in mind that in this industry, as in any other industry, there are specialised problems.' The cherries that are preserved by the' various means of brining, glazing and draining are cherries which' are produced through the crosspollination of dark or red cherries, which are the most popular cherries for fresh fruit consumption, and the light or white cherries. In the past dark 'cherries had not been regarded as suitable for canning purposes but it has been found that if picked at an early stage they can be canned. It is impossible to sell light or White cherries on the fresh fruit market unless the price is so reduced that they seem attractive when compared with the dark cherries which normally go to the fresh fruit market. The Tariff Board apparently considered that the white cherries, which are a necessary adjunct to the whole cherry industry, might be disposed of partially through the fresh fruit market and partially in what are known as multi-fruit packs- a sort of fruit salad arrangement. This was to be done by the Shepparton Preserving Company which, a year ago, said it would process every pear that growers could grow. Then, as we saw here the other day, that company was so unbusinesslike that it needed a loan of some $4m to keep it afloat temporarily and, we hope, to solve ultimately the problems in which it has become involved. The potential for processing cherries into fresh fruit packs at present is practically non-existent. Yet it was on such bases as these that the evidence submitted to the Board caused the Board to make a report to the Government which resulted in this Bill being before us today for validation. 
The Democratic Labor Party will vote for the validation of this Bill because there is no alternative in the interests of the cherry growers. We hope that the Special Advisory Authority to which the Government has now referred the matter will be extremely rapid in making a decision on it. We would not join with anybody in interfering with the independence of either the Tariff Board or the Special Advisory Authority. We can only wait and see what will be the outcome of the inquiry by the Special Advisory Authority. It would seem from the report that the Authority submitted only about 12 months or so ago that there is not much doubt that he will recommend that the industry again should be protected along the lines he recommended on previous occasions. 
I join with  Senator Webster  in urging the Government and the Minister responsible to give us some reassurance that the industry will be protected. I point out to the Minister that temporary alleviation of the problem of the growers and the processors is completely inadequate. Processors of cherries want to know what the market price is likely to be, not now or in the next 3 or 6 months but in 1 or 2 years time. They want to know what permanent rate of protection they are likely to get against surplus cherries grown in other countries flooding the market here duty free. I suggest to the Minister, as did  Senator Webster,  that he assure the Senate that the Government will give very special attention to the requirements of and protection for this industry so that cherry growers can take immediate worthwhile steps to retrieve themselves from the unenviable situation they have been forced into since February this year when the duties were removed. I commend that action to the Government. We will support the Bill. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill because it is necessary to do so to allow the States to survive at this time. However, I join with  Senator Hannan  in his criticism- but I take it the logical step further - that now there is in this bill, as  Senator Kennelly  also pointed out, a redundant clause. That clause was included to cover a set of circumstances which no longer exists. This arm of the Commonwealth Parliament is in no position to reject that clause without unduly upsetting the whole of the processes with respect to this piece of legislation, which nobody would want to upset.  Senator Hannan  took the point in his argument that no good purpose would be served by this House if it took such action. We would hold up the passage of the Bill. He left the argument there. But I think it is important that this House should dwell upon the reasons why we are unable to proceed to the logical conclusion and exclude from the Bill the clause which has now become redundant. 
The reason is this: In another place a decision was taken to curtail the debates and to adjourn. Members of that House are not here. Whilst it may be said- 
 Yes, but I do not know how that action would interfere with  Mr Whitlam's  trip to China and with those members of the Labor Party who happen to be abroad. 
 The honourable senator says that  he  may not go for another month.  We  may still be sitting here for another month, the way we are going. There aw other members of that House who haw taken, the opportunity afforded by the adjournment to go abroad and so on. From what I read . in a  newspaper today I understand that  Dr J.  F. Cairns is abroad. They  have.  every right to do so. We hear  tins  talk that we could bring them back.  We  could do. so, but I. think that honourable senators from, the Labor Party would be the first, to agree that it is wrong that the position should be that they would need to be brought back. This. House has not finished dealing with the important legislation that  is  of an urgent character in regard fo the States. Amendments to this legislation would involve bringing back honourable members in another place after that House had already been in recess for some weeks. This House is still operating and trying to give the normal parliamentary approach to the legislation that has been sent here for our consideration. 
It could very well be, but it may not be so. We may not be seeking to amend it. We may be seeking merely to reject the Bill and send it back without this clause, to see what will happen to it. But where will we send it? That is where I think  Senator Hannan  stopped short in his argument, that it was wrong for this House to be in this position. 1 point out that I thought that I would have received Ihe support of my friends in the Labor Party and not their interjections which indicate that they approve of the fact that we are unable to do anything about this clause. I suggest to  Senator Kennelly  that this is the reason why this clause which is unnecessary cannot at this point of time be removed from the Bill. 
I advert to the second reading speech of the Leader of the Government in the Sedate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  arid the manner in which this Bill was introduced. Once again, the Bill attempted to make respectable a most vicious and unfair form of taxation that was forced upon the States by the Commonwealth and which was never readily and easily accepted as the second reading speech would suggest it was. It almost sounds as. though the. States wanted it. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

 Senator- LITTLE - Before the suspension of the sitting I was adverting to what was said in the Minister's second reading speech: I suggested that- I was distressed that an aura of respectability was contained in thesecond -reading speech in relation, to turnover tax. The States have had this item of taxation denied to them. From -the Minister's second reading speech,- it would appearthat this was something which was taken away because of some feeling of pique by the Commonwealth or some act of misfortune. It appeared that the States considered that they should have the right to levy this particularly abhorrent type of tax and that the States themselves really desired the tax. Nothing is further from the truth. 
Over a period of years the Premier of Victoria tried to negotiate with the Commonwealth the right to collect a very low rate of income tax. That right was denied to the Slate of Victoria. Indeed, the State was threatened with the loss of needed income by way of the CommonwealthState financial agreement if it exercised the right to levy an income tax properly based on a capacity of a person to earn an income with the proper type of remissions for responsibilities that are of essential character in our community such as rearing a family. The State only reverted to a form of turnover tax that previously had been deliberately restricted by governments to such industries as the gambling industry because of its particularly obnoxious character. I suggest that nothing can be done to make this form of taxation respectable. The States were forced by the Commonwealth to revert to this system of taxation because they were denied the proper types of taxation that are fair, just and equitable. If we are to be forced into a form of taxation such as this, a tax may as well be levied on our right to breathe the air or our right to drink the water of the earth. 
What does a turnover tax mean? It is freely admitted by the Government that one has to pay this tax whether a business shows a profit or a loss. How can there be any justification for the Government to obtain its revenue through this method of income tax if, in the hazards of business life, one shows a loss and one has to pay a tax because one is participating in community activities for the purposes of trying to make a living for oneself and one's family? Never in the history of mankind, even when taxes were levied on windows and bread, was there ever a tax which was as obnoxious in its basic principles as a turnover tax from which there is no allowance for anyone at all. Indeed this tax was only justified by the States in the. beginning because the other avenues of taxation were denied them. Also, the States excused the advent of this form of taxation because of the fact that it was so minute that it was considered it would do no real harm. Originally the tax was lc in every $10 of turnover. However, because this tax was levied in the aura of respectability, which was mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech the tax is now becoming an accepted fact in the community. I hear stories - and I hope they are only stories - that the Federal Treasury is playing around with the idea, and the economic fatality that would result, of proposing that this tax again should be implemented on a Federal level and that it should be increased to lc in the $1. This, of course, would be fatal to the principals that operated in connection with this type of tax when the States were exercising the right to levy it. At that time the tax was of such a character that it could go almost unnoticed in business accounts only because of the fact that it could be offset against income tax. 
As this tax came out of profits in most cases the people paying it related it to income tax and said: 'Well, we pay half of the general profits of the company away in income tax anyway.' But income tax is based on a different set of principles altogether and it provides proper allowances for those people in the community who are faced with family responsibilities. But if this tax - a tax that could well be imposed upon the air we breathe for all the logical reasons that there are for imposing it upon turnover - became the accepted principle of taxation it must eventually reflect itself in prices. The family man who is the most valuable asset that this community has and those young couples who are setting themselves to rear 3, 4 or 5 children will be the people paying the greatest amounts as a result of turnover tax because this tax will reflect in everything that is purchased by these people for the purposes of rearing their children. It will be reflected in the prices for socks, shoes and other clothing. It will also be reflected in food, entertainment and everything that goes .to make up a home and a family background. The Government will be levying taxation upon those who are least able to afford it. 
Whereas I accept the principles of income tax, why is it that in a community such as ours the Government has camouflaged at all ' levels the right to tax? Surely sales tax in itself is iniquitous enough. There is the right to tax items that can be designated in some people's minds as luxury goods. Iri most instances a family cannot afford to buy cigarettes, beer and those goods that are heavily taxed by excise duty.- But these families still get the whip of the sales tax on exercise books, pencils 1 and other materials needed to send their children to school. Who justifies this as a fair form of taxation? Nobody does. There has been some talk of a court case by the Victorian Government to determine whether or not it was right, just and legal to levy a payroll tax which was a war time measure introduced for the purposes of carrying a wartime economy. This tax has been continued. Where is the moral justification for a payroll tax, particularly a payroll tax paid by public utilities and State governments to a Commonwealth government? Is it not rather ridiculous that those who create the employment which provides the Commonwealth with revenue should be taxed in this way? If there were no employment there would be no wages and, as a result, no income tax. 
The very basis of our society, the wage packet of the fellow who earns his daily bread, has a payroll tax on it. Payroll tax is levied on those who create employment - the public utilities and the State government. What a ridiculous set of circumstances we have when the Commonwealth collects payroll tax from the States and gives the money collected back to the States again. I cannot see that any of these forms of taxation are justified. Surely in our economy we are already loaded to the full with those types of taxes that are dishonest in their fundamental principle. This last addition happily, perhaps because of the activities of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the firm belief of this Party in the Australian people and the Australian family, is at present removed from the statutes of both the States and the Commonwealth. 
What 1 want to do tonight is to prevent the type of thinking that there is anything respectable in any government's descending to a form of taxation that would not have been tolerated 150 years ago. Indeed, these forms of taxation invariably ended in bloodshed and revolution by people who sought to remove the injustices that developed from them. In the early days of the operation of the turnover tax we gave the warning that the minuteness of the tax should not hide the fundamental principles behind it. I well recall a statement by a Federal Treasurer to the States in which he suggested how much their income could be increased by increasing the rate of turnover tax ten-fold. We heard stories about the Commonwealth Government being so foolish, so ill advised or so heedless of advice, as to contemplate again loading the Australian economy with turnover taxes. 
I believe that a good feature of this legislation is the fact that the Commonwealth is returning to the States from income tax - and that is where the Commonwealth gets its revenue - that portion of the income tax which rightly belongs to the people of the States and which is necessary to enable the States to run their machinery. If the amount of expenditure which is required to run the States as the people want them to be run and as the people are prepared to pay to have them run is in excess of the revenue derived from the present forms of taxation, then the Commonwealth should do the right and courageous thing and bring out into the open the question of the need to raise increased revenue. This should be done in a way that is fair and just to every member of the community.. 
Do not let us have any more of this talk about the States wanting this form of turnover taxation. Why, even after several years of its application in Victoria, the Premier of that State,  Sir Henry  Bolte, came to Canberra and asked for the right to levy a form of income taxation in preference to pay-roll taxation. It was only when his request to have the right to levy a small rate of income taxation in the State was rejected by the Commonwealth that he denounced the White Paper that he himself had laid upon the table of the Victorian Parliament and again reverted to the imposition of a form of taxation which became known as a turnover tax. Indeed, he became so confused politically that he was highly critical of this Government. Ultimately the turnover tax was withdrawn. But it was imposed of necessity in the first place because he had to obtain revenue in order to prevent the complete bankruptcy of his State. 
The Premier of the State of Victoria would prefer to receive money in the way in which he now receives it than to revert to imposing a form of taxation that should be written off and forgotten in the history of Australia. It has no place in the philosophies of people who are fair minded and who at least believe than an opportunity should be given to a man to rear his family in a decent way without being taxed beyond his capacity to pay by insidious hidden forms of taxation. I refer for instance to taxes that are paid every time a man's children drink milk or eat biscuits. In every other taxation law we concede to a man the right to buy goods at a price which it is necessary for him to pay in order to provide an income for the people who produce the goods. A government should not impose an unnecessary tax on a man who is doing the right thing with his life and the right thing in the interests of the nation. We will support the Bill with the reservations that I have mentioned. The Bill contains clauses which are unnecessary, but to delete them at this stage would create so much inconvenience and would be so impracticable that we are prepared to allow the measure to pass as it stands so that the States may receive immediately that portion of the money which they require in order to carry on their every-day businesses. 
We find it impossible to support the motion. First, we accept the Minister's assurance that the Bill, will operate along the lines that we thought. Secondly, I take  Senator Kennelly's  own argument and use it against him if I may be permitted so to do. The main reason for his wanting to delete clause 5, if I remember his words rightly, is that we should not clutter up the statute book with unnecessary clauses. Then he told us the way out. The way out which he suggested, of course, is that in August we should clutter up the statute book with another Bill validating something that had already been done in accordance with a Bill we would have passed this session had we not deleted a vital clause which held up the application of the Bill until we could validate it next August by passing another statute which would have in it a clause to provide retrospectivity. I cannot see that that is a very sensible proposition to put as an alternative to calling back members of another place, for whom I think we must have consideration, although I agree that this should not be an overriding concern. Certain expenses from the public purse would be involved in calling back the other place at this time over one unnecessary clause in an absolutely essential Bill to enable the States to carry on with their legislation. 

 Senator Kennelly in criticising the circumstances has pointed to the difficulty that would arise if clause 6 were taken out of the Bill. If there is a weakness in parliamentary practices that we have criticised in dealing with this Bill, there would be a greater weakness in parliamentary procedure if we were to do what  Senator Kennelly  suggests. After all, we live in a democracy and even this Government may have some difficulty in surviving until August for all we know. Certain pressures and undercurrents have been evident in the Libera,! Party, and it would be a very serious situation if the Government had been paying out hundreds of millions of dollars to the States and it turned out when the Parliament re-assembled in August that this Government was no longer the Government. I am sure  Senator Kennelly  has always looked at this possibility in the world of politics. 
My final point is that the legality of payroll tax has been referred to the highest court of the land. That court has said that it is legal and everybody now is saying that payroll tax is all right because it is legal. But the High Court was never asked to judge the moral background behind the levying of such a tax. I have no doubt that if the Commonwealth were to pass some law in the taxation field that was completely immoral it could be justified on the ground that it was legal for the Commonwealth so to do. This would have happened in the days when taxes were applied to windows, bread and all sorts of things that were considered to be luxuries. No court has adjudicated on the morals and the principles behind the payroll tax but because we have a court decision which says it is legal for the Commonwealth to collect payroll tax everybody will go around and say: 'Payroll tax is all right; the High Court has said that it is all right'. But all that the High Court has said is that it is all right for the Commonwealth to collect from the States. That Court has not passed judgment on the type of tax. I will reserve my right to judge payroll tax for its morality in the general taxation structure of this community. I do not need to refer to a High Court of judges to understand what I think about payroll tax and some of the other taxes. The worst tax of all is the one to which I referred in my speech during the second reading stage. We cannot support the deletion of clause 5. 
13931/71- -9-138 
I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will not oppose this Bill. It is extremely necessary at the moment that the Government, having been alerted to the situation not only in the wool industry but also in primary industry in general, should take every step that is humanly possible to try to help float these industries over this very testing period if it is possible to so do. The Democratic Labor Party would not wish to stand in the way of any measure that could even be remotely connected with alleviating the circumstances in which primary producers find themselves. This is a matter of great concern not only to the wool industry but also with respect to the general situation in which primary industry finds itself today throughout the world. 
The wool industry must face, at the same time as these problems are before it, the challenge from synthetics, the weight of which probably is being felt only now although it has been threatening for the last 20 years. The industry has equipped itself and has taken really giant strides forward to meet this challenge. Whether in the final analysis the wool industry will be any more able to survive such a challenge than the once great silk industry was able to survive the challenge to it from synthetics has yet to be shown. History will prove the truth. But the wool industry must receive every assistance that is possible from the Australian community at this time. Britain is contemplating joining the European Common Market. This, together with other international events of the moment, aggravates the problem further although the pressures now are so great that one would think that the situation could not become worse. 
The Democratic Labor Party does regret that as yet the Parliament has not been convinced of the value of and accepted the long range programme and approach sug gested by my Party to get to the kernel of the deep-seated problems facing primary industry. We will continue, by putting forward arguments and by constant example, to press our belief that there is no short cut to the ultimate solution of the problem. Whilst the alleviation proposed by this Bill is necessary and is an immediate gesture which must be made by the whole of the community to share the burden being carried by primary industry the solution to the problem does not lie in a short range plan. Ultimately, a long range plan will be needed. In the short range, this legislation may help to alleviate some of the problems facing the wool industry. We do not believe that this Bill provides a solution to the problems of the industry, but we are prepared to support the Bill because of the alleviation that it provides to the problems facing the industry at this time. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not support the proposed amendment. We propose to support the Bill. My experience in education may be more limited than that of  Senator Wheeldon,  and I have to think back a little further to my school days. They ended when I was slightly younger than 14 years of age, and were spent at a State school. Perhaps the educational system was not as good then, or it may have been better than it is now. I do not know, but it enabled me to take a place in the life of this community and I have been very grateful for the limited educational facilities that were available in my school days. My time at school was somewhat curtailed by family necessity brought about by the tremendous economic stresses of the 1930s. Many members of my generation determined to see that our children and our children's children had better opportunities for education than we had, and that they were not disrupted by such great financial and personal tragedies in this country as were created by the depression of the 1930s. I think we can claim to have succeeded. 1 am supported in that belief when 1 notice that today many young people attend school until in their early twenties. My colleagues and I feel that there has been a great achievement by a generation that had its own educational opportunities somewhat limited by the circumstances of the day. We are not bitter about those times. I smiled when listening to  Senator Wheeldon  because he was endeavouring to tell the Senate and the community at large what is virtually a lie; that is, of course, that private schools are receiving more from the public purse than are State schools for the construction of science laboratories. That is why I interjected with what  Senator Wheeldon  described as my guttersnipe' interjection and said that he had at last got to the truth. Figures may be cited which could mislead people to the belief expressed by  Senator Wheeldon,  but the whole idea of Commonwealth grants to schools for the construction of science laboratories and the provision of science equipment was based on the fact that we were moving into a different age. It was suddenly realised, amongst all the pressures of education, that in the field of science we had to keep pace with the rest of the world. We were in danger of falling behind, so grants were made on a special basis out of the common pool of the taxpayers' money. Of course, the State schools were already receiving grants from the that pool. It was not necessary to grant to the State schools for the purposes of this scheme the same amount of money to get the same value, because the States schools were already receiving grants from the common pool provided by the taxpayers. 
I was educated in a State school. I knew that my parents paid their taxes and education was provided out of those taxes. The people living next door sent their children to a private school, as is their right in a free society. The parents of that family paid their taxes and then paid for their children to attend school as well. That situation still obtains in our community. If 139 j 1/7  1-S-mi  we were to take the proposed amendment at its face value, it would be misleading. Unfortunately  Senator Wheeldon  has left the chamber. He is not here to listen to some more of my guttersnipe contributions to this debate, as he would term them. If he were here, he would learn that he has wrongly worded the amendment. Perhaps it was prepared carelessly or in haste, or it may have been framed deliberately to mislead the community and to whip up a wave of sectarian hatred, or class hatred. Not all pupils who attend private schools have wealthy parents. In fact, many of them are struggling economically. The amendment moved by  Senator Wheeldon  asks for the insertion of these words: the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to increase the grant for schools - 
The reference is not to science laboratories in schools but to schools. The proposed amendment goes on: - conducted by a State to the same amount per pupil as the grant for schools not conducted by a State. 
If the amendment were to be carried and the Bill therefore rejected, it would not result in a decrease in grants to private schools. Those grants would require a tremendous increase to raise them to the level of grants already enjoyed by State schools. The proposed amendment refers to an increase in the grant for schools. The grant for State schools already greatly exceeds the grant to private schools. To the shame of Federal and State governments, grants were made to private schools only when it became clear that the State educational system was threatened with complete chaos and collapse because of the entry into that system of children who previously had been educated in private schools. That situation came about because children were attending school until they were older than had been the case in the past. This involved a colossal increase in costs and the private schools were finding it almost impossible to survive. 
The Federal and State governments of this country saw the justice of spending at least portion of the funds allotted from the public purse for education on children attending private schools only when they were driven to it by sheer necessity. It seemed that the State system would collapse completely because the children educated privately would also need to be catered for. These children had been taken off the back of the taxpayers in respect of education expenditure because their parents were paying for their education in addition to their contributions to the public purse. All of us who are interested in children and in their education well know that the educational opportunities of the second, third and fourth child in a family were being neglected because of the sheer lack of finance. A family could not provide the money to continue educating the third, fourth and perhaps the fifth child who might have, been particularly brilliant. All the money available to the family circle had been spent on educating the older members of the family. The States admitted that they were not equipped to take over and could not take over the tremendous responsibility involved. 
We are not discussing a simple amendment stating that extra money should be granted to state schools to bring them up to the level attained by the expenditure of money on science laboratories in private schools. What the Opposition, particularly  Senator Wheeldon,  has endeavoured to do has been debate a lie. The Opposition has endeavoured to say that at the moment state schools are receiving less from the public purse than are the private schools. That is a lie. There would not be a private school, whether it has a religious background or not, in this community that would not be thoroughly satisfied to receive from the public purse per pupil the amount that it costs to educate each child in a state school. If we are talking of spending more money on education, it is high time we had an investigation to inform us ali why it costs so much more to educate each child in a state school than in the private schools. There must be some reason for this. Perhaps it is the efficiency of the private schools, because the standard to which a child has to be educated still is set by the State and it ultimately has to be met by the schools, private or state, irrespective of their circumstances. 
We of the Democratic Labor Party deplore the fact that there is not complete honesty in relation to this great question of education. Surely we are not discussing political trickery. We are discussing the education of the children of Australia. Does it matter whether they come from  a  rich home or a poor home in the future? The economic status of families has a dramatic habit of changing rather sensationally in a generation or so. The rich squatter family of one era is sometimes the impoverished family in the next, and vice versa. We are discussing the education of young Australians and surely all honourable senators should be wrapped up in the idea that all of them should get the best opportunity that is humanly possible irrespective of the education system selected for them by their parents. 
Grants are made available by the Commonwealth to the States for the creation of new state schools and the sustaining of the old schools. Many of the expenses pertaining, to science laboratories located in those particular schools have already been covered by grants made available to the States for the purposes of the state schools. But no grants at all had been made available for science laboratories or anything else in private schools until quite recently, and even now the -grants are a fraction only of what it costs to educate a child to the standard set for state schools. Extra money is now being made available to private schools to give them the same opportunity of establishing science laboratories and to bridge the gap. Private schools were not receiving funds from the Commonwealth pool by way of State grants for education to provide basic necessities for the staff and for buildings. In many cases State schools already had the buildings and required only the equipment. 
It is a lie to try to draw a comparison between the 2 education systems and to say that over the whole picture this Bill proves that more money is being spent on the education of children in private schools than on those being educated in state schools. It is wrong to suggest that the Bill should be withdrawn. The words that are necessary to make the amendment honest have been omitted. I notice that  Senator Wheeldon  has returned to the chamber. I suggest to him that, if the amendment is to do what he wanted it to do, it should read: "That the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to increase the grants for state schools, or schools conducted by the States, for the purpose of their science laboratories to the same amount per pupil*.  Senator Wheeldon  suggested that this Bill  be  withdrawn  but  did not say in his amendment what the subsequent Bill should refer to. To achieve what he sets out to achieve- 
 I succeeded in primary school English, in spite of  Senator Wheeldon's  criticism that the state school system is neglected so far as financial assistance is concerned. I reared 2 sons and put them through the state school system. One happens to be a medical practitioner at the age of 23 years, thanks to the state school education system in Australia. In spite of being starved of finance that system is able to make an outstanding success of many of its pupils who are born with average intelligence. If  Senator Wheeldon  wants to frame amendments, I say to him: 'Never mind about the superiority of your schooling over mine; let your common sense and natural talent to think take over?' At least  Senator Wheeldon  should word his amendments accurately so that all of us know what he is talking about- even people with limited intelligence like myself. 
1 must thank the honourable senator for his high class interjections, which stand out and are so superior lo my guttersnipe tactics. The honourable senator was endeavouring to mislead the Senate with an amendment which does not say what he intended it to say. 1 point out to him that if he achieved what he says in his amendment he would practically treble the grants to private schools to bring them within range of the grants being made for the state schools of Australia. At least that would bring a substantial measure of justice to that section of the community, that section of  my Australian brothers and neighbours who have paid their taxes for a lifetime for the education of their children and have then paid out of their own pockets as well for that education. If that does not offend the honourable senator's sense of justice it offends mine. I have never wanted to receive any advantage in the Australian community because my parents paid taxes. So did the parents of the child next door, but they did not get the same advantage because they also paid for their child's education. 
In my lifetime in the political movement I have fought for equality of educational justice for all school children, and I do not care whether they go to a state school, a private school or any other school. 
Any suggestion that the Bill should be withdrawn on the basis set out in the amendment is a falsehood aimed at misleading the people and at whipping up in our community prejudices of the very worst kind and of the most un-Australian character. We of the Democratic Labor Party will not have a part in it: We believe that this Bill, which provides an opportunity for the Commonwealth to give money to both state and private schools in accordance with their requirements and in accordance with' the principle whereby the Commonwealth already has made money available to the state educational system for science laboratories, should be carried by the Senate. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Victoria Grant (Shepparton Preserving Company Limited) Bill. We regret the necessity for it. We appreciate the difficulty, as explained by  Senator Poyser,  which the Australian Labor Party had over this matter. We indicate our sympathy with him in circumstances which were aggravated by parliamentary procedures in another place  of  which we have already indicated our disapproval. However, as a Party we did not face the same difficulties as the Australian Labor Party in assessing the merits and the value of this Bill. Honourable senators will recall that I asked a series of questions in relation to the problems of the pear growing industry and in particular this cannery.  Senator Webster  also brought the matter to the attention  of  this House very early in the session. 

 Senator McManus and I were favoured in being brought very much up to date with the problem which affected all the pear growers ki the Goulburn Valley and Murray Valley areas and particularly the specific problems of the Shepparton cannery. We had the problems made known to us by the growers last February when we undertook an intensified study of the area which involved visiting all the canneries and the grower organisations over a period of some weeks and acquainting ourselves with the information that was necessary to show that this industry was in a very bad way indeed. We regret that the Australian Labor Party did not also take unto itself the opportunities which were there to gain a knowledge  of  the problem which was catastrophic for this very important industry in Victoria. 
Actually it was as a result of advice that we were ultimately able to give the Shepparton Preserving Company after approaching the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  that the company's application came through the State in the manner in which it did. It was made clear to us after representations to the Minister that the Commonwealth could assist this cannery only if the request came through the State. We were able to advise the cannery to make sure it went to the State and put its request in that way to the Commonwealth. While we all play politics in this place on occasions T do not think that the by-election for the seat of Murray had anything to do with the Government's decision. 
Yes, purely coincidental. Though the honourable senator may laugh about it, I think that he of all people would like to be fair in his politics. The fact is that the great majority of Government members supported the candidate who was most likely to defeat the candidate who won. For that reason I cannot see the virtue in the Government itself being affected by making the grants available at that time. The contest was being fought out virtually between 2 sections of the Government parties. Probably as in most elections in Victoria the key which would unlock the door for whoever came into the Commonwealth Parliament was where the Democratic Labor Party gave its preferences. It could not be suggested that the Government was bringing down a Bill to assist the Democratic Labor Party. I think the charge of political expediency is not very soundly based in political fact. On this occasion action was taken because of the sheer necessity to save this industry from the catastrophe that was facing it. This was brought about by several factors and 1 do not want these to be forgotten in the carrying of this Bill which will allow the State of Victoria to assist the Shepparton Preserving Company. Let us make it very clear: The Commonwealth is not doing very much, and I will explain that later. 
This measure does not alleviate the problems of the pear growers in Victoria or anywhere else in the Commonwealth. The real problem is that the marketing of canned pears has become very difficult throughout world markets and the European market is rejecting pears unless peaches can be supplied at the same time. Peaches are in somewhat shorter supply and are uneconomic to produce in this country. Peach trees live only a short time in comparison with pear trees and orchards have to be replanted. Peach trees are much more susceptible to disease and wet weather conditions than are pear trees. Some years ago there was a crisis in the peach industry and many growers grubbed out peach trees and put in pear trees. As pear trees go on producing for 100 years we have reached now the situation where no matter what anybody does there will be a surplus of pears which will rot on the ground this year and next year irrespective of whether there is a change of government. Pears may still be rotting on the ground when the Democratic Labor Party has the numbers in this and another place to form a government. 
Do not be too sure of that. The Opposition's crystal ball is very faulty because it gazed into it  10  years ago and told us we would wither on the vine, but the vine is stronger today than it ever was and is bringing forward much better fruit than has ever been brought forward politically in the history of this country. But do not let us be diverted onto personal matters. What is a discussion of the animosity that naturally exists in politics between the Democratic Labor Party and the Australian Labor Party compared with this great problem facing the primary producers of this country? Whatever happens to save the Shepparton Preserving Co. will not wipe out the problems of this industry and the Government will have to face facts and decide whether or not it would be better even at this point of time to compensate some of the growers for the loss of opportunity than to have this recurring problem for the next  10  or IS years. To get some of the producers out of the way, and to compensate them for grubbing out thentrees may ultimately from a Commonwealth or State Government point of view be a cheaper way to solve the problem than continuing to subsidise the industry. 
In talking to the new people responsible for the management of the Shepparton Preserving Company, I offered the advice that it would be perhaps catrastrophic to receive money merely for the purpose of canning still more of the surplus crop this year when they are in the trouble they are in because they adopted as a co-operative this attitude towards the growers: They have the pears and we have to put them into cans. They have already got them stacked everywhere and to go on canning a surplus, which the market could not absorb at this point of time, hoping that growers would have such a catastrophic season next year that there would not be any pears to can - in other words, praying for a tragedy to save the day - would be most unbusinesslike and not the way to rescue the situation. It would be far better to spend a lesser amount of money, not expending the capital involved in processing pears, and to allow pears to rot, much as this seems to go against the grain of those of us who know that there are people throughout the world who could well do with this food. We seem to lack the machinery to convey it outside the generally economic practices which prevail at the moment. Whatever  Senator O'Byrne  may say the pears will not wait. The pears in the final analysis are the judges on this problem because by the time we have solved this world market problem of being able to distribute surpluses' of food that exist from one country to another, I am afraid the pears would not be very palatable anyway and that would only be a diversion away from the general problem. 
But to return to the Bill, I do not think the Commonwealth can claim any great credit for saving this industry. When all is said and done, what does the Commonwealth do? It insists that Victoria accept the responsibility. Victoria has really borrowed the money from the Commonwealth for this specific purpose and guarantees that the loan will be repaid. This means that the Commonwealth runs no risk whatever. It cannot lose its $4.2m because if Victoria does not pay the Commonwealth deducts the amount plus the interest that is owing to the Commonwealth at that time, from the general allocation of the taxpayers' money to Victoria for the purpose of running the State. So all that the Commonwealth has done is to act as intermediary between the taxpayers generally and the taxpayers in Victoria and to say that it will permit this industry to be saved. Here we have a Bill which enables $4.2m to be made available by Victoria, which guarantees the loan, to the Shepparton Preserving Company which accepts the loan at  7  per cent per annum interest. I presume that is the interest rate that Victoria pays to the Commonwealth. Victoria absorbs all the risk. 
I have always understood from my reading of economics that the justification for interest on capital has its origin firstly in that the owner of the capital - if one can classify the Commonwealth as the owner of the capital, the taxpayers' money which is provided by the forms of taxation - loses the advantage of the use of that capital for the specified period of the loan and, therefore, should receive some return for the loss of use of his capital. That is one factor which goes towards justifying charging interest on money loaned. A second and very important reason is the risk of loss of that capital. In days gone by and even today, this risk has some influence and bearing on the rate of interest charged on a loan. If it is gilt-edged and absolutely guaranteed the rate is usually much lower than it would be where the loan could be said to be risky. Of course, if it is a second mortgage loan or a loan to a young person to enable him to buy a motor car - a motor car is considered to be rapidly depreciating collateral - then the interest rate rises accordingly. The loan to the State of Victoria is an absolutely gilt-edged loan because the Commonwealth has the capacity to dover the loan by way of taxation, even if Victoria went broke. Yet the rate of interest is still 7 per cent - a socalled special low rate. 
As I explained when I dealt with another measure in this chamber recently, the rate of 7 per cent is 2 per cent higher than the general rate which existed for 150 years. The general rate of interest was never more than 5 per cent and on giltedged security loans the rate varied between 3 per cent and 3i per cent. Now we have talked ourselves into the frame of mind where we refer to 7 per cent as being a low rate of interest. The Commonwealth could not under any circumstances claim that risk of loss, which is one of the factors controlling the fixing of the interest rate, applies in this case. If anybody is entitled to claim a higher rate of interest to compensate for the risk of loss involved in this loan to the Shepparton Preserving Company it is the State of Victoria. Anyone who knows and understands the full details of the problems confronting the Company at the present time - and we hope that- it will be able to overcome these problems - realises that the risk of loss is very high. But the State of Victoria is not in a position to get anything for the risk it runs. Again we are confronted with this problem of one of the States, which honourable senators represent in the Commonwealth Parliament, being unfairly dealt with in the distribution of finances which belong to the Australian people. 
However, I draw attention to that matter as a side issue. The schedule to the Bill completely preserves the Commonwealth's rights and interests, yet the Commonwealth in effect adopts a holier than thou attitude and says: 'Look that we have done to help the Shepparton Preserving Company.' All that the Commonwealth has done is to make available to the company a loan of S4m which is to be repaid over a period of 8 years at an interest rate of 7 per cent. In the money lending markets of England a century or two ago a person would have been burnt at the stake for daring to try to charge such insidious rates of interest to people who were most likely to be able to pay. But under this Bill the State of Victoria is guaranteeing the loan. I only hope that some day I will be able to get into this financial racket in which the Commonwealth is involved and have the State of Victoria guaranteeing any humble sums of capital which I may be able to lend at an interest rate of 7 per cent. 
In all its statements on economic matters in this Parliament the Commonwealth admits that it has the responsibility to control the economy of this nation, and I support that view, lt is able to fix rates of interest through the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Shepparton Preserving Company will stave off its immediate difficulties and it will be able to pay its growers as a result of this loan being made available to it. But I join with  Senator Poyser  who said he wondered whether the imposition of this rate of interest of 7 per cent will not ultimately prove to be the straw that breaks the company's back. Perhaps from another angle the Commonwealth will regret that interest rates were allowed to rise to this high level. If the general rate of interest is allowed to rise to 7 per cent, it becomes impossible to start lending money at lesser rates of interest unless the money is lent for a specific purpose, such as the provision of  war service homes. Really I suppose that the necessity to make this loan available to the Shepparton Preserving Company in order to rescue this industry in its present circumstances is almost as great as the reasons which drive us to make available at rates of interest which are lower than those applying generally in the community money for the purpose of building homes for the men who served this country in the hours when our freedoms were being challenged. 
We will support the Bill because it is necessary to make this loan available to the Shepparton Preserving Company. We understand the problems which face the Company because we have acquainted ourselves with them. I say to the Senate and to this Parliament that this is not the last occasion on which we will hear of difficulties facing fruit growers. Their problems will recur and grow but we will be quite happy to act as their voice in the Federal Parliament. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is interested in the subject which was raised by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and, indeed, has had talks with the people employed as scientists in the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation. We agree with their contention, not so much because they should be able to move out into private employment but because they should be allowed to broaden their knowledge and so be of more value to the community. They should be able to broaden their experience in other areas of scientific research, and they should not be tied by a superannuation scheme to any one job. We take this argument even a step further and say that the general application of this idea would be good. 
There is no real value in a superannuation scheme that, because of the threat of lack of portability, ties a person against his will, to a job with which he has become disenchanted or dissatisfied when he wishes to try to move into some other area. It is far better in our view to allow such an employee to move into the other area. Ho may come back to his former employment quite satisfied and revitalised. Surely this is better than having somebody with a chip on his shoulder because he had to wait another 10 years before he could take his superannuation rights with him into some other area of employment in the same field which has become perhaps more attractive to him. For this reason, although we have had little chance to examine the full effect of the proposed amendments, we feel very much disposed to the point of view that 10 years is a much more suitable period than 20 years which has up to now been quite acceptable to the community in general. These schemes are somewhat modern in origin but there is no reason why we cannot find areas of improvement. We think that reducing the qualifying period would be a very great improvement to the Bill. 
One aspect I notice in the Superannuation Bill has come as quite a surprise to me; I do not know whether it has to other honourable senators. I had no difficulty in reading these Bills in toto. I see that the Superannuation Bill refers even to ourselves. Proposed new section 119a (2.) states: 
For the purposes of this Part, the membership by a person of a House of the Parliament of the Commonwealth or of a State shall be treated as if it were employment of the person by the Commonwealth or by that State, as the case may be. 
As the Minister and his advisers would be much closer to this Bill than 1 am, l should like him to explain to honourable senators just what are the implications in that clause of the Bill. Does it mean that at last there is portability between the parliamentary retiring funds of State and Commonwealth parliaments or between the various State parliaments? Lack of portability between parliamentary retirement funds has acted to the detriment of individuals over a long period of time. Some people serve in both the Commonwealth and State parliaments. Indeed, some years ago because of a recount in an election in Queensland, a man who was known to me was debarred from receiving the benefits of a parliamentary retirement fund, although he had served for a period in both the Commonwealth and the State parliaments. I think everybody would agree that he was justly entitled to at least some benefits from the contributions which he had made to both parliamentary retirement funds; but this was not the case because his service had been mixed between both the State and Federal parliaments. 
This man appeared to have won a vital seat in an election, and if he had taken his seat in the parliament he would have served the necessary period to become eligible to receive the benefits of the parliamentary retirement fund. But on a recount it was found that he had not won the seat, so he lost his chance to qualify for the benefits of the parliamentary retirement fund, although he had nearly reached the qualifying period for eligibility in both the Commonwealth and State parliaments. It is possible that somebody has served periods of 7) years in both Commonwealth and State parliaments, accumulating a total service of IS years in the service of the nation, but has still failed to qualify to receive any benefits from a parliamentary retirement fund, other than a refund of his contributions. Being a member of parliament is a particularity hazardous occupation, as far as permanency is concerned. So I should like the Minister, through his advisers, to give us some clarification of what is meant in proposed new section 11 9a (2.). 
The Democratic Labor Party has considered this legislation from the point of view of the representations that were made to us and, we presume, to the Government. Obviously they were made to  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, if not to the Government as a whole. In relation to the specific  area  which we examined we thought  there was a  very good case. The amendments moved by the Australian Labor Party were distributed only this morning and we have not had an opportunity to examine in depth what they would mean if they were applied to the whole measure now before the Committee. The Bill will improve portability, although the qualifying period is far too long. Because the measure improves portability we are in favour of it and are not prepared to reject it at this stage or even to delay its passage. The legislation can be very important to many people immediately. Before agreeing to the Labor Party's amendments we would need to have more time to consider the effect of their insertion 'in the Bill and to know what a reduction of the qualifying period would mean to all Commonwealth employees. We are not in the habit of making hasty decisions on matters that are of importance. Had we been informed of this proposition even 24 hours ago we would have had some opportunity to examine it. We have not been able to examine it and for that reason we are not prepared to accept it at face value merely because it happens to coincide with our view on one section of the Public Service. We have made that view known to the Minister and to the Government. We are encouraged by the fact that obviously the view is supported by at least one Government supporter,  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack. I believe that if the Government investigates this question of portability it will find that in other parts of the world scientists and other people engaged in highly technical fields have a lower qualifying period for portability than is prescribed in this legislation. We look forward to the Government putting this right at some future date. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is the Minister aware of the enormous increase in the flow of acrylic tow crude materials into Australia in the last 10 years? Has the increase been from 1,827,817 lb in 1959-60 to 13,221,455 lb in 1970-71? Is it a fact that 1 lb of acrylic tow can be spun into the equivalent quantity of yarn that comes from 2 lb of greasy wool? As most acrylic tow is imported from the United States of America and is duty free, whilst the United States has a duty of 25 ic per lb on wool, will the Government give consideration to the imposition of protective duty against this strong competitor of our wool? 
Will the Minister explain why the duty on yarn manufactured from acrylic tow was reduced from 40 per cent to 20 per cent? What increases have occurred in the inflow of this yarn since the duty reduction? Why is the raw material allowed in free of duty whilst even the 20 per cent duty applies to the manufactured product? 
In speaking to this motion, I congratulate  Senator Webster  on quoting one of the powerful trade unions of this country which happens to be led by a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
We get an instant reaction. The amazing fact is that if there is a big union which is led by the Democratic Labor Party the members of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber want to disown it; but if it is a union led by Communist Party officials it seems to be greatly beloved by them and not only is it accepted but its policies are slavishly supported. I can understand the disappointment that a big union should be led by members of the Democratic Labor Party. But I cannot understand why members of the Australian Labor Party do not exhibit exactly the same disappointment when they realise that a great many of the most powerful unions which were once led by Labor men are now led by members of the Communist Party. They show no concern at all. That may be one of the fundamental reasons why we are discussing the proposition that we are discussing here tonight. lt is a very clear cut proposition, namely, the misuse of the tremendous economic power that has developed in the great trade union movement of this country for purposes that are not industrial. If members of the community, trade unionist and others are prepared to continue to permit the development of this trend, then the day must come, of course, when there will be retaliation, when others in the community must have the same right to break the laws and to try to force the hand of Parliament in order to have their wishes imposed upon the community as a whole. We can see the day coming perhaps when employer organisations or other organisations will promote lockouts because the Russian Circus is coming to Australia or because some friends of the Labor Party are coming to Australia from some other country. 
If a person uses the argument here to justify the strike of industrial power for some cause in which somebody believes then he must of course, if he is a democrat, support the right of others to do exactly the same thing for a cause which is near and dear to his heart. But, no, one has to be right in one's causes. A person has to bc sure that he is right. He has to be as sure as Hitler was that only he has the right to misuse the power that is tied up in the organised strength of the trade union movement and in the organised strength of other sections of the community - religious if you like, friendly society if you like, employer organisations if you like. Trade unionists do not believe that they have special rights. It is a new trend in trade unionism for a trade union official to feel that he is superior to the law, that he can use violence in the streets and defy the normal processes of law in this country, that he can call on industrial stoppages to impoverish the economy of the nation and the workers in particular. They are the ones who suffer most and they have no say. 
In spite of the airy-fairy nonsense talked by  Senator Murphy  let us face how the trade union movement today really functions. I am not one of those people who object to paying political levies. I pay them. I pay money to the Australian Labor Party because I am a member of a trade union organisation that has made a decision to pay money to the Australian Labor Party. Because it was a majority decision of my colleagues in my union I make no protest that part of my subscription to the union goes to the Australian Labor Party. That is a decision of the union. Although it is being used for a political purpose, that is not using the power that we are talking about here tonight, namely, the power to order the workers out on strike over the issue of the Springbok rugby tour. Who are the people standing around the ground cheering the players on? Were they all bosses? We should use our common sense. They were trade unionists who wanted to ge there and watch the football. 
I smiled at the purity of the Labor Party here tonight on ' this - matter of racial discrimination. It is going to show the world that this country is pure on racial discrimination. It is going to stop work. It is going to show the sincerity of the Labor movement and the trade union movement 1 have in front of me the headlines of the newspapers of 21st June 1971. That is. not so very long ago, is it? The headline reads: 
ALP- 
That is the Australian Labor Party; let us be sure who it means -  ends colour bar in policy on migrants. 
The new purists who have suddenly discovered on 21st June 1971 that apartheid is wrong are calling on the industrial organisations of this country to strike because a football team dares to come from a country that supports the same apartheid policy as they were supporting up to 21 st lune. If the trade union officials who support this sort of thing are foolish enough to do so, if the Labor Party senators here who support this sort of thing are foolish enough to do so, do not tell me that the trade unionists who work in the boot factories where I worked and in the transport jobs where  Senator Kane  worked, the clerical workers with whom  Senator Gair  once worked, and the school teachers with whom  Senator McManus  once worked are as silly as those people who believe that this sort of purity is going to clean their slate. When I was in the Labor Party- I moved for the abandonment of the White Australia policy at Labor Party conferences . in Victoria. I could get a seconder, or I would second his proposal; I am referring to Albert Monk. We could not get anyone- else to even support the proposal. Today the members of the Australian Labor Party want to go out as the great purists on a question in relation to which our own house is not entirely in order. Whatever may be our individual ideas on this question, if anybody can lay claim to being a purist over the last quarter of a century at least I can. 
My views are such that there are in this country today at least 5 young Chinese familes who regard me as their Australian parent, and 1 am proud of the fact. My record on this question -  Senator Mulvihill  can put his record alongside mine if he wants to - has been that of a purist for 25 years. If the honourable senator's record is as good he should look around amongst his colleagues to see whether they can equal it. If his record is as good as mine I will be pleased to know that I have a fellow Australian who is broad on this question, because it is a question dear to my heart and in relation to which we should all be broad. 
But whatever may be our point of view on this matter, the question before the Senate is whether there should be industrial action to force the Government, the rest of the community or anybody else who may not agree with us on this matter. Is this a matter to be decided in the factories, in the workshops, in the trade unions, on the streets, at the football matches or at the cricket, or is Australian policy to be decided by the elected members of Parliament? If we disagree with those policies are they to be resisted? Nobody is suggesting this. It was not suggested by the mover of the proposition that the rights of the trade union movement be interfered with, except in the misuse of power. 
I would like to read some extracts from a document which gets very close to the heart of this question. It begins in this way: 
Australia must not become an imperialist armed camp like Palestine. If Australia's policy was one of peace, of friendship with all peaceful nations, of loyalty to the United Nations Charter, we would have disarmament, lower taxes, higher living standards. Workers and farmers of the dry north must fight for peace. They must demand that the rocket range be scrapped and that the extension of the pipeline must be made to their own towns for their own peaceful needs. 
Do honourable senators agree with that? I hear no voices. They are suddenly lost in a sea of uncertainty. I will let the mystery out of the bag. I know that everybody mistakenly thought that that quotation was Labor policy, because that is Labor policy today. But that is a quotation by the late H. V. Evatt from a Communist Party publication. The article continues: 
The rocket plan is part of the Attlee-Devin and Chifley-Evatt policy of turning Australia into an imperialist base. This threatens early involvement of Australia in any future war fought with guided rockets and atomic bombs. 
The legislation to which my colleague  Senator Kane  referred was brought down by the Chifley Labor Government not to stop trade unions from taking an interest in political activities or expressing opinions but to stop the use of industrial power to interfere with the rights of the Government to govern. 

 - Senator Cavanagh, says that it was never enforced. He should know. He could not get into the rocket range because  Mr Chifley  said that he was not a person to be allowed to enter the site of a defence establishment. But he is right when he says that it was never enforced, it never had to be enforced because the terms brought down by a Labor Government conscious of its responsibility to this nation were so severe that nobody dared to whisper about a black ban on the rocket range. It never had to be enforced because the penalty was a fine of over $1,000 or 6 months to 12 months gaol or both, depending on the circumstances under which one was indicted. So the problem was cured. 
I come now to the excellent contribution to the debate by  Senator Wright.  He enumerated all the industrial political mistakes that have been made over the last couple of years. He told us about the Springboks. He told us about the trade union official who was charged with violence, and he told us about many other things. But with all due respect, let me say this to the Minister and to his Government. These things have all happened. The workers of this country have been denied their fundamental right to work on those days. The economy of the nation has been torn asunder. What has the Government done about it? That also is implied in the proposition that the DLP has brought before the Senate. It is all right for the Government to outline its position, but it was challenged to do something about the situation and has not. That is why the DLP has been forced to offer its advice to the Government and tell it what a Labor Government did when it was challeneged in a similar manner. That we are oppostd by Labor senators on a matter such as this is beyond my understanding. 
We are speaking here tonight for the people who are being hurt the most. I refer to the working people of this country who are harmed when they are ordered to stop work. They mutter and murmur, but out of loyalty to their industrial organisations they comply. They are terrified that cries of 'scabbery' would be hurled at them if they did what they want to do - go to work in order to provide for their families the standard of living they desire. It is in order to help and protect those people that we have raised this question. Those people suffer again as economic circumstances in this country force inflation to spiral upwards still further. Is it common sense for the industrial movement of this country to say in respect of social service legislation that its members will strike for a day? Even the pensioner organisations pleaded with them not to do it because pensioners on fixed incomes understand the effect of a one-day stoppage on the price spiral. They understand that they are the ones who pay for the luxury of trade union officials' exhibiting their tremendous industrial strength in the positions they hold. They are able to order a stoppage of work throughout this country for a day as part of a political demonstration.  Senator Mulvihill,  who is interjecting, is too well versed in trade union affairs to claim that the unionists are willingly stopping work for such purposes. 

 Mr President, sufficient has been said about this matter to indicate' that the view inherent in it is in the interests of the people of this county. If I speak any longer I - will deny the Senate an opportunity to vote on the issue by supporting the motion. For (hat reason I move: 
That the question be now put. 

<graphic href="049232197108183_75_1_1_A.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197108183_75_1_2_N.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="049232197108183_75_1_3_P.jpg"></graphic>

Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The original question put: 
That the Senate, at its rising, adjourn until tomorrow at 10.55 a.m. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Humble Petition of citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science aware that 20 Murrumbeena High School teachers in the State of Victoria, allegedly on strike since 26th July, during which period they have been receiving two-sevenths of each week's pay, have decided to return to work 2 days before a holiday period for end of term; that they have returned to work with a threat to strike again in the new term; and that they will be paid for the holiday period? Does the Government approve of this flagrant exploitation and misuse of taxpayers' money allocated for the education of our children but being diverted by this system of industrial banditry 
I support the proposed amendment. I think it is reasonable and sensible. The only thing wrong with the old standing order was that it did not leave clear what would be debated when we returned at the hour fixed by the motion for adjournment. I think the proposed amendment satisfactorily clears up that position. I disagree with none of the . other procedures under the old standing order. I have found in my parliamentary experience, both here and in Victoria, that the standing orders of the Parliaments of this country all have a very distinctive role to play and a distinctive meaning. The procedures they set out to create are usually very wise. I do not see anything wrong with this procedure because, when all is said and done, as  Senator Wright  correctly pointed out to  Senator Wood,  this is a talking shop. If we decided that we have to be always efficient and talk only about the things that matter, in somebody's estimation, and not talk about anything unnecessarily, thereby getting our business through efficiently, we would lose the whole atmosphere of a democratic Parliament. This procedure has obviously been sought to be used in the manner in which it has been used and not, as  Senator Cant  and others have tried to show, by the Australian Democratic Labor Party alone. 
I wish to refresh the memories of some honourable senators as to occasions when motions of urgency have been moved. I select a period about 12 months ago. On 13th May 1970  Senator Mulvihill  moved the adjournment of the debate in order to discuss a matter of urgency. The matter was the protection of kangaroos. On that occasion the gag was- not applied at all. The Senate in its wisdom decided, apparently unanimously," that the motion for adjournment should be carried without a vote being taken. Apparently, the debate exhausted itself before the time allotted for it had expired. 
On 5th June 1970, only about a month later,  Senator Bishop  moved an urgency motion to discuss the failure of the Government to promote the design and construction of Australian aircraft, and so. on. The motion for adjournment was .passed on a division, after  Senator Bishop's  suggestion that the question bc put to a vote.  Senator Bishop  then found it necessary in the last minutes of the debate to move that the question be put so that the Senate could decide whether the motion for the adjournment should be carried. I presume from the fact that the vote was carried that the DLP supported the Labor Party. 
On 19th August 1970  Senator O'Byrne  moved an urgency motion on behalf of the Labor Party, referring to the need for reconstruction of the rural economy along certain lines. The motion for adjournment was negatived, so that the motion for adjournment again on that occasion went to a division.  Senator Wilkinson  moved the closure of the debate on that occasion so that a vote could be taken. It was not the action of the DLP on that occasion either. It was the action of the Australian LaborParty, I remind  Senator Cant.  So that that occurred on 2 occasions out of 3 in less than-- 
It was because it was just before a Senate election that these matters were brought before the Senate and the closure of the debate was moved in order to get a decision. On 3rd September 1970  Senator Murphy  moved an urgency motion which related to an attack on freedom in Australia involving the Government's refusal to allow Dick Gregory to enter this country. The motion for adjournment on that occasion was defeated again and the gag was applied through the action of  Senator Murphy  himself. He moved for the closure of the , debate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works. 1 ask whether the Minister's attention has been drawn to the statement made on 2nd August of this year by his colleague, the honourable P. Lynch, Minister for Labour and National Service, wherein he made the following remarks relating to the shortage of tradesmen and apprentices in industry. 
For the past 20 years and more, the demand for skilled tradesmen has greatly exceeded supply 
Paradoxically, employers have not been making available the number of apprenticeship vacancies which would ensure that in time supply could catch up with demand. 
The situation is more dramatic from the point of view of young men seeking to expand the supply of tradesmen by offering themselves for training. For example, in February of this year, 529 young persons were registered for vacancies in electrical mechanics but only one-fifth could have been absorbed in the vacancies that were available. 
There were 10 applications in February for apprenticeships in motor mechanics for every training opportunity available. There were 14 boys available for every apprenticeship in panel beating. In the fitting trade there were slightly more boys seeking apprenticeships than there were apprenticeships available. 
State Governments as well as the Commonwealth have for years been drawing attention  to the fact that the most effective method of ensuring a large supply of tradesmen is to train more apprentices. 
The trade union role will be to continue to agree that employers with effective training facilities employ apprentices in excess of ratios. 
Are the following figures correct for apprentices employed in the Victorian section of the Department of Works to June 1972: Carpenters, 16 apprentices compared with 272 tradesmen employed; plumbers, 8 apprentices compared with 129 tradesmen; painters, 1 apprentice compared with 295 tradesmen; and electricians, 12 apprentices compared with 54 tradesmen? Will the intake of apprentices this year in this Department be only as follows: Carpenters, 4; plumbers, 3; painters, none; and electricians, none? Is the ratio of apprenticeship allowed still 1 apprentice for every 3 tradesmen? In view of the evidence of an abundance of young men offering for apprenticeships as referred to by the Minister for Labour and National Service, will the Minister for Works give immediate instructions to the Victorian section of his Department to take steps to implement Government policy by having a large intake of apprentices and so also set an example to private industry? 
I do not enter this debate as a lawyer because I am not one, but as one who has some respect for natural justice, particularly as it applies to the rights of honourable senators to bring before the Senate matters that they consider to be in the interests of the Senate and the citizens of this country. It is because of the course which the debate has taken that 1 have decided to enter it. I wish to explain, first, the circumstances in which this matter has come before the Senate. 
The imputation has been made that we, as members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and as  Senator Byrne's  political colleagues, were in some way biased in favour of the case which has been presented tonight by  Senator Byrne.  This is not true because, while  Senator Byrne  did advise us that he proposed to bring this matter before the Senate, he in no way attempted to convince us of the rights or wrongs of this case. We did not hear it fully explained until we sat here and listened to him tonight. I was not sure whether or not he had a case but I thought that if any senator felt the way he did about the manner in which this Senate - not the Privileges Committee - had acted in the circumstances in imposing sentences upon these men, in spite of what  Senator Willesee  says to the effect that it should not have come before the Senate, I believe most strongly this matter should have been brought before the Senate again. Whether  Senator Byrne  is right or wrong, it most certainly should have come before the Senate at this time if we accept the case presented by  Senator Willesee  that we are endeavouring to establish our own rules of law and to give to the public at least a knowledge of the privileges that this Parliament has to protect itself under its laws. 
As I see and have always seen the role of this Parliament, we have the same rights perhaps as the Crown has to be above the courts of this country. But the fact that we have these rights, does not give us the power to ignore the ordinary concepts of natural justice and the forms of natural justice which have been found by the courts of England and Australia over the ages to be necessary to carry out natural justice. In this way, we do not allow the  26 August  1971 courts to become arrogant as indeed they were when many of our ancestors were sent to this country following trials in courts that did not know the law. If we want to establish the right of this Parliament to express its own rule of law for the examination of members of the public by its committees, surely we do not want to make all the mistakes which were made by the courts of law in England as it developed the principles of justice that apply in the administration of law today. 
Several honourable senators spoke tonight about the evidence given before the Privileges Committee. Any senator who had reason to believe that he as well as other honourable senators had erred, not when the evidence was presented to the Committee but when this Senate actually established the guilt of these people after the hearing of evidence at a secret trial and established their guilt at their first appearance before the public when, for the first time, they had the opportunity publicly to say anything in their own defence, was justified in bringing this matter before this chamber tonight. I want to say something to  Senator James  McClelland before he leaves the chamber. He suggested that there was an ulterior motive on the part of  Senator Byrne  in bringing this matter before the Senate tonight. 
 Senator James  McClelland knows that this matter was listed to be dealt with tonight at 8 p.m. when all of us thought that the proceedings in the other chamber would be broadcast. I think  Senator James  McClelland should apologise. He is a legal man and must realise that this is an established case of a miscarriage of justice. He accused  Senator Byrne  of bringing this matter before the Senate tonight so that the proceedings could be heard on the radio. Neither he nor anyone else knew when the decision was made to discuss this matter tonight that the Senate proceedings would be broadcast. 
 Now the honourable senator is changing his ground. He is a lawyer and is changing his ground rather than apologise. I am glad that he is the lawyer and I am not. The honourable senator made an unfounded charge when he said that  Senator Byrne  brought the matter up for the purpose of gaining cheap publicity over the radio. He knows that the Senate proceedings would not have been broadcast. I always believed that the honourable senator was a good lawyer. He was when he represented trade unionist friends of mine in the courts of this country. 1 thought he would be man enough to apologise to the honourable senator to whom he directed the aspersions. 
That is a matter for the honourable senator. I want to revert to some of the other things he said as a lawyer.  Senator Byrne  never suggested that there had been a miscarriage of justice. He said that in his view the Senate had made a mistake in not giving to the accused the right to be heard publicly before they were sentenced. This case was lengthy, and necessarily so. It was lengthy enough for honourable senators to try to refute the case put up by  Senator Byrne  but they never mentioned it at all. Honourable senators must have sat here without listening tonight because they dealt with the evidence submitted to the Committee. Certainly  Senator Byrne  referred to the fact that the Committee had heard evidence and had brought a recommendation before the Senate. In no way did he challenge that. He said that for the information of honourable senators who were not here when the decision was made. 
The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  hinged his whole case on this and said there was no suggestion that we were now discussing whether or not the Committee had properly found that there had been a breach of privilege.  Senator Byrne  spent an hour in giving us a brilliant address during which he tried to concentrate the minds of those of us who are not legally trained on a most intricate legal problem. I congratulate him on being able to convince at least one mind that is not legally trained that at least there is a case for the Senate to answer. Judging by the way the debate has developed, some of  Senator Byrne's  greatest fears have been answered but not all of them if the Senate is to establish the right to do what it ought to do in similar cases which may have far more serious consequences for the victims of the sentences, however deservedly the sentences in this present case may have been passed. 
Can we possibly justify the procedure that we adopted in this case?  Senator Byrne  never questioned that we had a legal right to adopt it, as we are our own masters. But does that give us the right to dispense with the forms that the courts have found over the years to be so necessary or should that not make us more sensitive to the proposition that these forms are the very forms that we must be very careful not to discard because, like the Crown, the Senate has the capacity to discard them. I think this is the crux and the value of the argument that  Senator Byrne  brought before the Senate tonight. The Attorney-General presented what I believe was the only case that would give one to doubt whether we should reverse the decision that we previously made. That argument was based largely on the lack of severity of the sentence. Whether or not we are lawyers, when the Senate has to behave in the manner in which it did to protect its privileges each one of us, whether he likes it or not, becomes a lawyer and a judge. We have no choice at all. I ask honourable senators: Would they as judges sit here and submit to a proposition that some person be sentenced to a long period of imprisonment for a very serious breach of the rights and privileges of this Parliament if the only public defence that such a person was allowed was to stand silent while he was sentenced? f do not think we would. I do not think that implicit in the arguments of even  Senator Greenwood  or in his quotation of the procedures of the British House of Commons is a suggestion that that was a right procedure. It does not strike me as an ordinary citizen who is legally untrained that it would be a right procedure. I know that such procedures are applied in some countries that have a different concept of justice and a different concept of human rights from those that we have. In those countries a person is subject to a secret trial about which the only information submitted to the public is the fact that the person has been found guilty by the tribunal which has imposed a penalty for the alleged crime. Natural justice demands at least that before a sentence is passed a person found guilty should be given the right to speak at the eleventh hour in his own defence. 
I am grateful to  Senator DrakeBrockman  who brought 1 fact to the attention of the Senate which helped to convince me. He said that these 2 men had the right to counsel when they appeared before the Privileges Committee. But they were not found guilty by the Committee. The Committee merely made a recommendation to this Senate, and this Senate confirmed the guilt and passed sentence. When that was taking place, these men did not have the right or the privilege of being represented by counsel, or even of raising their voices to say that there were mitigating circumstances as a result of which the severity of the sentence should be reduced. They could not even have pleaded on the ground of human compassion if the sentence might have been 5 or 10 years in gaol.  Senator Willesee  made a contribution when he said that we are trying to establish our own rules and not to follow slavishly the practices of the British House of Commons. Even the British House of Commons has substantiated the case that  Senator Byrne  has advanced tonight.  Senator Greenwood  read out the British practice which indicates that sometimes the House of Commons calls people before the chamber and gives them an opportunity to speak before sentence. From his brief reference to what occurred in the House of Commons, it appeared to me that the severity of the sentence itself might have had something to do with the Commons practice on that occasion. 
But is not the Senate charged with the responsibility to ensure that every precautionary measure be taken? This is the first time that the Senate has used this procedure. We have set a precedent. If the debate tonight has served no other valuable purpose, at least it has served the purpose of bringing out the fact that the AttorneyGeneral feels that, because of the lack of severity of the sentence, these people were treated fairly. Perhaps there is some logic in that contention. We have set a precedent for all time. "Is it not natural that a brilliant trained lawyer, as  Senator Byrne  is, should have his doubts that, having set the precedent which we set on this occasion, we might adopt the same practice on an occasion when the offence is a far more serious one and when the sentence may be vastly different to the one which  Senator Byrne  referred to as 'being flogged with a feather'? 
 For all those reasons,  Senator Poke,  I believe that those who have disagreed with  Senator Byrne  and who have complained about the time that has been consumed by this debate have not done proper justice to the dignity of the Senate. However mild in the circumstances the ultimate sentence may have been, we were all concerned at what we considered to be the tremendous potential in the breach of privilege that took place and the serious necessity for the Senate to protect its rights and its privileges. It is not a matter of the individuals or of how they felt about the sentence that was imposed.  Senator James  McClelland said that when he had coffee with one of the sentenced persons he learned that they had no resentment. I take issue with the honourable senator on that. I do not think it should bother the Senate whether they had or had not resentment. That is not the purpose of this exercise. Whether or not they resented what happened, I imagine that they would have had access to trained legal advice. One of the papers protested about this point. I quote from the 'Sunday Australian' of 16th May. An article in that paper adverted to the circumstances. Referring to the editior of that paper, the article states: 
In company with the editor of another newspaper he was found guilty of a breach of parliamentary privilege. He was summoned by telegram to appear before the Senate on Friday, where he was severely reprimanded. He was given no opportunity to speak publicly in his own defence. 
We still think that at that time we could well have acted in accordance with the forms that are established by the courts, when we were acting rightly as a judicial body. That is not questioned by  Senator Byrne.  We did not act in accordance with those forms. Whatever suggestions have been put by  Senator Byrne  as to the consequences of our omitting to adopt those forms, at least all honourable senators should be congratulating him for giving us an opportunity to review the circumstances, whatever our decision now may be; and not only to review the circumstances, but to realise the potency of the power that we have. We should not fail to take every precautionary measure to protect the natural justice that should be afforded to citizens who may at any time offend and who may have to appear before us, as a judicial tribunal, when we may be called upon rightly to impose sentences upon those people to protect the rights of the Senate. A future sentence might be far more severe than the one on this occasion. 
Whatever forms we ultimately set up, let us ensure that those forms cover not only the minor offences for which sentences may be light but also that they are adequate, and not only in our eyes. We will act as the jurors and as the judges as well, as we must do. This, therefore, gives us much higher responsibility to ensure that our forms shall not be lesser than those of the courts but instead will be even more powerful in protecting the natural justice and the rights of somebody who even wishes to plead, when guilty, for the mercy of those who are about to sentence him. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister been advised of the vicious sentence of 9 years imprisonment imposed on Ukrainian Valentyn Moroz in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics for allegedly conducting anti-Soviet propaganda? As Moroz's crime was to advocate the preservation of Ukranianian culture, will the Australian Government express its abhorrence of such sentences? Has the Government received from champions of democracy in Australia any request to deny admittance to Soviet sporting or cultural' bodies, such as the Russian ballet, until the Soviet Union changes such policies? Has the Government had any approaches from religious or other organisations to prohibit the Moscow circus until freedom is restored in Czechoslovakia? 
As I foreshadowed in my speech earlier, I move: 
At end of motion add: tmi the Senate expresses grave concern - 
that the Government's fiscal and monetary policies will not prevent a further erosion of domestic purchasing power whilst maintaining full employment; 
that the inadequate defence vote reveals the Government's failure to appreciate the deterioration in Australia's strategic situation caused by recent world events including failure to provide the necessary supply and logistic support programme; 
that the Budget makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme; 
that the Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by seting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates which would make a more equitable adjustment than does the provision of the Budget; 
that the Budget fails to ameliorate in a substantial way the restrictive operation of the means test especially in regard to private superannuitants; 
(hat while offering some short term relief to primary producers, the Budget fails to provide for the establishment of a National Rural Finance Corporation equipped to provide immediate financial relief by way of long term loans at low interest rates with interest and redemption-free periods and also fails to provide for the necessary examination of the whole structure of the rural industry by an expert commission ot enquiry which could advise the Government on the application of fundamental long term remedies: and 
that the Budget offers no adequate provision for decentralisation. 
I advise you formally,  Mr President,  that for the present my remarks will not be directed to the original question before the Senate. Instead I propose to refer only to the amendment moved by  Senator Murphy  and to foreshadow the further amendment already referred to by my leader,  Senator Gair.  If necessary, I will speak to the original issue at that stage. At the outset let me say that all matters of this kind which come before the Parliament always engender a lot of discussion. It was refreshing to have so many new members of the Senate make their maiden speeches in the Budget debate. I feel confident of the future of this House having regard to the standards that have been set by those who have delivered their first speeches on this occasion. 
I shall endeavour to be as constructive as I can. No issue could ever be submitted to this House in regard to the nation's immediate future, and the handling of the immediate problems, in relation to which one could be completely right and someone else could be completely wrong. Invariably there must be a tremendous margin in any attempt to deal with problems of the magnitude that a nation always faces when what is thought to be the obvious solution will not be completely right nor need it necessarily be completely wrong and a failure. The first question covered by the amendment, and incidentally by the Budget itself, is the general economic well being of the nation. We all know that probably the greatest challenge at the present time is the inflationary period through which we are passing and which is only a quickening of what has been happening to us since the end of the last war. This process has been common in man's economic history. It has occurred at the conclusion of all wars going back to the primitive days and even before economies were based on a metallist theory of money. It always became necessary to debase in some way the currency or to inflate the economy as a means of paying for the tremendous wastage of war, and as a means of increasing the capacity of the nation to produce to meet the banked up demands that accrued in the period when mau was destroying rather than producing goods for consumption. 
The last confrontation that the world faced was no exception but it occurred in circumstances of an almost entirely new and of a less primitive economic character. We have not reached the millennium in economics. We have progressed, I believe, a little way and each of us in our time can contribute a little to the solution of this very pressing problem of man. In the old days the balancing of a nation's economy at the conclusion of a war usually meant the addition of less valuable content to the metal money of the day. If it was gold they added silver. If it was silver they added zinc. By that means they were able to create more money. 
The colossal expenditures of modern warfare are such that at the conclusion of the 1914-18 war those methods no longer held and the whole metallist theory of money was gradually swept away. Many resisted for some time and argued that the solution of man's economic problems lay in getting back to the purist theory of pure gold, pure silver or pure something of value in the currency of the nation. All of that has gone. I have referred to it only because I believe that it is necessary for us to retain our perspective if we are to understand the pressing problems of today and realise that they are not new problems. Instead, they are old problems being dealt with in a new way. We have progressed into a more scientific age of money and credit although we have not learned yet to control it properly. The Government has some theories, I have some theories and economists have many and varied theories. 
In this inexact science there probably is no area of such great controversy as that which exists between economists themselves on how to deal with this question. 
Having reminded honourable senators of some of the history of this matter I should like now to recall to their minds how recent it is in the history of man that we have even grappled with or come to understand the magnitude of the problem that faces us. At the conclusion of the 1914-18 war probably one of the most sensational periods of inflation occurred. It is well to remember that in our lifetime we saw one of the most sensational or one of the most tragic periods of inflation in history, lt occurred in Germany in the immediate post war period and did not terminate until 1923. Germany was nol the only country involved. All of the countries of Europe, to a greater or lesser degree, suffered tremendous difficulties as a result of inflation. England and America controlled it better than did most; France and Italy were gravely affected, but Germany was the classic example of how man so completely misunderstood the problem that in the end he adopted more or less childish circumstances in an attempt to deal with it. I shall read from a book titled 'Economic History of Europe'. I quote the book, not as an authority but rather as an historical record of what happened at the time, lt is a factual statement of the situation. The author has this to say: 
This gap between receipts and expenditure was rilled by getting notes from the Reichsbank. At first the additions to the note issue were moderate; but as prices rose, as the purchasing power of the mark sank both at home and abroad, and as revenue became increasingly inadequate, the outpouring of paper swelled into a flood. In the last months before the collapse more than 300 paper mills worked at top speed to deliver notepaper to the Reichsbank, and ISO printing companies had 2,000 note presses running day and night to print the Reichsbank notes. In addition to lending lavishly to the state the Bank lent money at low interest rates to industrialists. They used these funds to extend their plants or to buy any others that could be procured. Then when the debt bad to be repaid, the value of the mark had fallen so low that the paper handed by the debtor to the Bank was almost worthless. 
That statement is followed by a very interesting paper which shows how the value of the mark had been inflated. The value of the mark in 1913 is represented by the figure 1. 
I think that the Bank of England was in tremendous difficulty trying to stabilise the English £1, and was still fiddling with the idea of tying it to a pure gold standard and getting the sovereign back to the same value of undiluted gold as it was before the war. Probably America and England could have helped to avoid the situation which arose in Germany if they had not had the same pressing problems as we have today. We would bc in difficulties, I think, if we were to try to save a nation from collapsing as a result of inflation when the pressure is on us to try to preserve the purchasing power of our own economy. 
According to the book, by January 1920 some 12.6 marks were required to buy goods which in 1913 could be bought for 1 mark. By 1921 this had arisen to 14.4 marks. By January 1922 it took 36.7 marks to purchase what 1 mark would purchase in 1913. There was a remarkable jump in January 1923 when 2,785 marks were required to buy what 1 mark bought in 1913. Six months later - in July 1923 - some 74,787 marks were required to purchase the same amount of goods. By November it had gone from the sublime to the ridiculous. It took 750 billion marks to buy what had previously been a product costing 1 mark. That was inflation gone mad. I quote that mainly to show that as far back as 1923 mankind, in endeavouring to deal with this problem, could not find a simple solution. There is no simple solution unless one adopts the same approach that Germany adopted, the resultant tragedy of which we all know. 
That is not the end of the story. Germany in 1923 was in a terrible state because of its complete collapse, as everyone could imagine. By 1929 it had one of the strongest economies in Europe again. Why was the recovery so complete? What attracted the necessary basic finance to rebuild its economy? One of the very simple measures that Germany adopted was to have a rate of interest 2 per cent higher than that which operated in any of the neighbouring countries. Germany had a very high internal rate of interest so it attracted capital into Germany from 1923 to 1929 and by 1929 it had succeeded in attracting capital to such extent that it was in a better position than England and America were. It was in that position because it had an interest rate 2 per cent higher than that of neighbouring countries. That attracted overseas capital. That is the point I make. This reasoning still applies. Australia today has an interest rale 2 per cent higher than that of the major economies of the world. 
The Government is puzzled as to why there is an inflationary tendency in the Australian economy. The Government says that this high rate of interest will control the inflationary tendency. Its control of the interest rate, I am sorry to say, will not help to maintain in the economy a level that will prevent inflation. Yet in Germany it attracted overseas capital. In Australia today it is attracting overseas capital. That throws out of balance the ratio between supply and demand. The influx of overseas capital seeking the high rate of interest is something over which the Government is exercising no worthwhile control at the moment. When I suggest this to the Government and its economic advisers, they say: 'You are ill advised. You do not know what you are talking about. You believe in driving the rate of interest right back'. I have never suggested that. I do not want to suggest that argument. 
As a result of something 1 said in a previous debate, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  was kind enough to put to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  my ideas on this unequalled rate of interest that Australia is maintaining today. I have received a reply that his attention was drawn to my comments. He commented on what I had said. He stated: 
In the first place  Senator Little  faits to recognise that interest rates are the price that has to be paid for borrowed funds . . . 
I cannot understand why the Treasurer should be so misguided as to attribute that statement to me. Of course I know that nobody recognises that. He continued: 
. and, as such, are determined basically by the demand for and supply of funds. 
That statement is not true. I would take issue with him and argue the matter because that is no longer the position in our economy, lt used to be. Yet the Government responsible for our economy is labouring under the delusion that this still pertains. The interest rate is not fixed basically by the demand for and supply of funds. It is fixed by the Government issuing instructions to the Reserve Bank as to what the interest rate should be. I would like the Leader of the Government to inform me whether 1 am mistaken on this subject. On 3 occasions since I have been a member of the Senate I have listened to him explaining why the Government was allowing the interest rate to rise. It has no relationship to the supply of and demand for funds. The Government says that that is not so because it says that it is increasing the interest rates to allow it to control inflation. The Treasurer, in his reply to my comments, stated: 
A feature of the Australian economy over recent years has been the steadily increasing competition for available funds from both public and private borrowers. 
I think that all of us must interpret tha: statement to mean that plenty of people want to borrow money. The Treasurer continued: 
At the same time, over the past year and a half the Government has limited the supply of funds as part of its programme to contain inflationary pressures. 
The Treasurer admitted that the Government is running the economy and that it has done this to contain inflationary pressures. He continued: 
In these circumstances, it was inevitable that interest rates would rise. 
Then he returned to the previous philosophy that the interest rates are doing this of their own accord. Is that so? In this set of circumstances will any economic flow inevitably raise interest rates? Will the increase in interest rates necessarily discourage the borrower or will it encourage the lender? In a time of inflation it could very well be a good idea to buy property. Bricks and mortar will not lose their value, as money does. If one lends money and gets it back at some future date, in a period of inflation, it might not be worth nearly as much as it was when one lent it. The pressure should be not to have money flowing into a normal interest rate market for lending purposes but into the creation of capital goods. But it does not do that because the Government has inflated the rate of interest far beyond the norm. The Government has inflated the rate of interest to nearly 8 per cent. It is still encouraging lenders to lend in a period of inflation. As the Government said, the borrowers are there thirsting for the funds. 
Is it not a valid economic argument to suggest that the increased interest rates will promote the velocity of the circulation of money and credit because there is more profit in it for the lenders and that the borrowers are always there? I am prepared to argue that. 1 should like to hear a valid argument from the Government, but I cannot prompt such an argument. All I get are statements from the Government that mean nothing and that in themselves are contradictory. Those statements suggest that the present rates of interest arc such that the money is flowing freely because of the supply and demand in the market. I have referred to the historical background of Germany's inflation and how the 2 per cent higher rate of interest from 1923 to 1929 attracted overseas capital. Do honourable senators know what that higher rate of interest was? lt was the extortionate rate of 5 per cent. The rates in neighbouring countries were  2i  per cent to 3 per cent. The higher rate of interest attracted a flow of capital to Germany. 
In the world money market today I think Britain's rate has dropped to below 6 per cent and America's rate is 5 per cent. We are maintaining a rate close to 8 per cent. The Government suggests that this is sound economic policy, that it maintains a natural flow and that it is not interfered with at all by the Government, but the Government gives instructions to the Commonwealth Banking Corporation to increase interest rates to curtail the circulation of money and credit. The Government says that the borrower will not borrow if he has to pay a high rate of interest. I wonder whether that is a valid argument. Could we examine that? Is the 8 per cent bank rate the only rate of interest being charged? A young man came to me for advice recently. He knew of my interest in this subject. He once worked for me as a paper boy. He is now a very good tradesman. He wants to buy a home and to put his brother and sister-in-law in it. He is not interested in marriage at the moment. He cannot get a normal housing loan, although he is an excellent citizen and a very good risk. The only money that he can borrow is at  13  per cent. 
No, from the trust funds of a lawyer. He is only holding them on behalf of his clients. It is not the lawyer's money. People in the community suggest that, with the Government and bank rates at their present levels, they can obtain these rates of interest - and they can do that. This young man was tempted to borrow money at a rate of interest of  13  per cent. I said to him: 'If you do, you will pay for the house every  7  years and still owe the principal. Even at the risk of your brother having to suffer some hardship in his housing circumstances which you could alleviate if you built the house, my strong advice to you is not to embark upon a venture in which you have to pay such rates of interest'. 
In this Parliament and throughout the Australian community as recently as  6  years ago such interest rates were described as rates of usury. Hire purchase companies were charging those interest rates on collateral security that disappeared almost overnight - refrigerators and washing machines which, when second hand, were virtually valueless. Those companies demanded such rates of interest. It was suggested then that that was usury. It was then, and it still is. Now, because of Government policy, it is a fact that in our community these rates of interest are paid on gilt-edged securities such as a newly built home. The Government suggests that that does not increase costs and help to promote inflation. I have discussed the inflationary situation as much as I can from a very simplified angle. I believe that too many people try to make economics a more inexact science than it is by using verbiage which is unnecessarily complicated and which clouds the issues rather than simplifies them. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party maintains that the high interest rates currently charged in this country are a tragedy for Australia, a contributing factor to inflation and an assistance in the destruction of the primary industries. We believe that until the Government can reverse its economic thinking on interest rates, it will contribute to the problem rather than alleviate it. In case the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  should hear of some of my remarks, let me say that I am not suggesting that the rates of interest could be driven back overnight from their present levels to the levels that apply in other countries. Of course, those of us who have interested ourselves in the subject at all understand that movements in these areas must be slow and that the economy must be given time to adapt itself to the circumstances of a change in interest rates. Even if the Government embarked immediately upon a programme of retrieving the situation which it has helped to create, it would take a considerable time to get our interest rates back to normal. 
In being constructive in this debate, I want to take up several points that were made toy  Senator Wriedt  in his contribution, because I believe that they could be misleading and could give the people a distorted impression of some of the things that we need to do in trying to solve some of our problems. He referred to the crisis in education. Unfortunately, some school teachers who are campaigning for more money for education have been misled tremendously on this matter and are putting up propositions similar to those advanced by  Senator Wriedt.  He said that we have a crisis in education, and we all agree with that. He went on to say: 
Only just recently we were told by an authoritative body that an additional $ 1,400m will need to be found over the next 3 years for the education system in Australia. 
My only comment on that is that I hope that none of that money will be used to pay teachers holiday pay for a period immediately following one in which they have been on strike or to pay them twosevenths of their wages when they are on strike. I do not believe that if we do that we are getting value for money in education. I would like to see the money spent not on that type of luxury or indulgence of the teachers but on the education of children. I think  Senator Wriedt  would be fair enough to agree that that is pretty sound. He also said: 
By contrast, we spend the enormous amount of $2,500m every year on buying and running our motor cars. In fact, that is not the total bill; that is what it costs us to buy them and to put petrol and oil into' them. 
One could add the cost of roads, bridges and many other things to that bill. A lot of tax is involved in that money, as we all know.  Senator Wriedt  went on to say: 
The son of question we have to consider is whether our cars are more important than our children. 
That is a tremendous oversimplification which adds nothing to the argument. If we look around the world today we see countries that are not manufacturing and consuming large numbers of motor cars, refrigerators, washing machines and all the other goods that one could foolishly say are not necessities for mankind. Those countries may say: 'Let us go without those goods and give a better education to our children'. Let. us look at the nations that do not have the productivity and consumption of those sorts of goods that we have. Are they in an economic position to educate their children to even the insufficient standards that we are managing to achieve? Let us look at India and other underdeveloped nations. 
We cannot solve the problems of today by turning the economic clock backwards and going back to a primitive state of society in which we say that the production of many of these goods should be curtailed so that we can spend more money on this, that or the other. The economic fact is that out: of the capacity to produce and consume these goods comes that which we can syphon off to use in the interests of infant welfare, a better deal for handicapped children, a better deal for education in general and so on. lt is an oversimplification of our problem to try to criticise the Government and to suggest that some of us want motor cars and not education for our children, as  Senator Wriedt  so unkindly suggested in reply to an interjection by me. I was being disorderly in interjecting; so he had the right to do that. But this is not a solution to the problem at all. Those of us who believe that we should produce motor cars and everything that we can produce do not necessarily believe that we should not also educate our children to the fullest possible extent. We realise that by manufacturing and consuming all the goods that the ingenuity of man enables us to manufacture and consume we are adding to the total economic strength of our country and our capacity to improve our standards of education by spending the' money we can afford to spend upon our children. 
At the present time it would be wrong to close a speech in a debate such as this without making some reference to the problems of the primary industries of this country. My remarks will have to be very brief as time will not permit me to go into the matter in depth. I have one considerable worry on my mind. It is a matter on which I believe we all support our primary industries, lt emanates from the challenge of the European Common Market, lt is the situation of the wool industry in this country today. Perhaps the European Common Market situation has brought to a head a problem that would have developed anyway for technical and scientific reasons. We supported the establishment of the Australian Wool Commission in an endeavour to maintain prices, ff that now is not going to work as well as we hoped it would, I think we all have to accept some responsibility because we hoped that it would offer a solution. 
I have become worried because the Commission now has hanging over the market a colossal reserve supply in circumstances in which I cannot see the market ever returning to a normal price level. The buyer will always know that this reserve supply is waiting there ready to supply the market at any time. There will never be such a shortage of supply that he must compete against other buyers who are desirous of buying the product. 
It cannot be held back indefinitely. So, the pressure to obtain the product is now being taken off the buyer and transferred slowly to the Commission. To a limited degree, the Commission may have met a temporary situation and offered something to the wool industry. But I believe that the position is rapidly reaching the stage where a reappraisal of this idea has to be made. I suggest to the Government in all sincerity that it is now a question of how long we can allow a situation to obtain in which we are continually adding to the reserve and tomorrow's clip is being threatened by today's clip that is still in this country and still has to be sold by the Government. I think any man who has conducted any sort of business would recognise the grave dangers in that course. 
I draw the attention of the Government to a question I asked about synthetic fibres that are challengingthe wool industry. Today I have had no answer as to why acrylic fibres are brought from the United States of America and admitted to Australia duty free whereas the United States charges a duty of 25 per cent on our natural product of wool.I think the Government should take positive steps to equalise the situation, or at least to ensure that if synthetic fibres are to enter this country they should not do so completely free of duty when exported by the country that is charging such a vicious rate of duty on the natural fibre produced here. 
The time allotted to me is drawing to an end. If necessary, I will outline once again the proposed amendment foreshadowed by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair)  and which I propose to move later. I have addressed myself to the amendment proposed by  Senator Murphy. Mr Acting Deputy President,  is it necessary for me now to read our proposed amendment? Ft has already been read by  Senator Gair. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - You may read it if you so desire. 
The amendment that I will later move states: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate expresses grave concern - 
That the Government's fiscal and monetary policies will not prevent a further erosion of domestic purchasing power whilst maintaining full employment; 
That the inadequate defence vote reveals the Government's failure to appreciate the deterioration in Australia's strategic situation caused by recent world events including failure to provide the necessary supply and logistic support programme; 
That the Budget makes no provision for a comprehensive national insurance scheme; 
The Budget again fails to remove pensions from the area of politics by setting up an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates which would make a more equitable adjustment than does the provision of the Budget; 
The Budget fails to ameliorate in a substantial way the restrictive operation of the Means Test especially in regard to private superannuants; 
While offering some short term relief to primary producers, the Budget fails to provide for the establishment of a National Rural Finance Corporation equipped to provide immediate financial relief by way of long-term loans at low interest rates with interest and redemption-free periods and also fails to provide for the necessary examination of the whole structure of the rural industry' by an expert commission of inquiry which could advise the Government on the application of fundamental longterm remedies; and 
The Budget offers no adequate provision for decentralisation.' 
ls the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the public interest in Australia's assistance to refugees from Pakistan? Can the . Minister outline what assistance has been given and is proposed to be given? If not, could honourable senators be supplied with a full report on what has been done? 
Yes, I think it is appropriate that the Senate should be supplied with the information. I do not have it readily available to me at question time. I shall set out to obtain the information and have it made available. 
asked the Minister for Works, upon notice: 
Has the Minister seen the statement made on 2nd August by the Minister for Labour and National Service regarding the shortage of tradesmen and apprentices in industry. 
Are the following number of apprentices employed in Victoria by the Department of Works, (a) 16 apprentice carpenters; (b) 8 apprentice plumbers; (c) 1 apprentice painter and (d) 12 apprentice electricians. 
Did the Department of Works in Victoria take in this year four apprentice carpenters and three apprentice plumbers. 
Is the ratio of apprentices allowed to tradesmen still one to three. 
Will the Minister take immediate steps to have the Department of Works in Victoria employ large numbers of apprentices and so set an example to industry in general. 
-I move - 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that rates of pensions should be determined by an independent tribunal or committee of experts on social services including pensioner representation.' 
The purpose of the proposed amendment is for the Senate to express an opinion on what we consider to be a very important principle in assessing the rates of pensions to be paid to people in our community. 
During the course of this debate the Australian Democratic Labor Party has been charged with not sincerely supporting the proposition we are now putting forward. Indeed, it has been said that it is an impracticable proposition that could not be accepted by either the Government or a responsible Opposition. We do not agree with those arguments. Whilst it has been said baldly that no government or opposition could act as we have suggested, nobody has told us why that is so except to say that the Government has to pay the pensions and it should assess the amounts of those pensions as it has to raise the necessary revenue as a budgetary measure. 
Our answer to that is, quite naturally, that the Government has to pay the Public Service but it has no say in fixing the rates of remuneration that have to be paid to the Public Service, the money for which has to be raised by revenue as a budgetary measure. 
The wages bil! of the Public Service would exceed by an enormous amount the sum paid to pensioners. I think the honourable senator would appreciate that point. The amount fixed in one case by an independent tribunal for the Public Service would far exceed the sum ever likely to be fixed for pensioners. In fact, the principle is carried so far by the Government that it has even set up commissions to purchase wool and wheat. The Government does not know in advance what it will cost to maintain a market price. It costs millions of dollars. Nobody knew in advance what the guaranteed price for wheat would mean in terms of revenue to be raised by the Government and the commitment undertaken by the Government at that time. By that move the Government involved itself in a bill that would far exceed the total pensions bill, let alone just an increase in pensions. 
Why then should pensions not be taken out of politics where everything else is? Is it a very delicate issue on which no government or opposition could possibly agree? Is it because the Government and the Opposition like pensions to be in a political arena to be used as a football, or as a bribe to -get votes at election time? This is the principle so often denounced by the DLP. In the functions of government one can find board after board and committee after committee involved in expense which has to be met by the Government. A current example is that in the wisdom of the authorities it is now thought fitting that an independent authority should conduct an inquiry into the rates of parliamentary salaries to be paid by the Government and the taxpayers. It is not suggested that somebody other than the Government will pay the parliamentary salaries, is it? We may not subscribe to that view. I personally feel that the area of parliamentary salaries is one for which the Parliament should accept responsibility, but that is merely a personal point of view. Surely it cannot properly be suggested that the practice of setting up a tribunal when public expenditure is involved comes up against any tremendous barrier when the needs of pensioners are to be examined, even though the necessary money has to be found by the Government. In the final analysis the Government has the responsibility to accept or reject the assessment of an independent tribunal and to decide whether an excessive demand would be made on the public purse in view of the state of the national economy. 
Our proposition contains nothing to suggest that the Government should not retain that responsibility. Surely we are putting a rational and reasonable proposition and not, as  Senator Willesee  has suggested, a phoney argument. It is suggested that our proposition cannot be accepted, without any responsible, logical argument being advanced to support that suggestion. The only bar to acceptance of our proposition is the fact that the Government is still moving within the mental limitations of a practice that has developed over the years by which governments have paid members of a section of the community a rate of pension to enable those people to live reasonably according to a government's assessment of their requirements. That assessment has been made in a most illogical, impractical, and even the Opposition would admit, inadequate manner by a Government that has all sorts of other responsibilities and apparently has not the time, if it has the desire, to make a thorough investigation required to arrive at an adequate and proper rate of pension, and the ability of the economy to sustain that rate. 
The sole justification given for pension Increases today is that they are more than was paid last time. The argument behind the budgetary measures is advanced on that basis. That is all very well for the purists, although I think members of the Opposition would be fair enough to admit that if they were in government they would use the same type of argument to justify the limitations of pension increases. They also would say that the pension this year will be 50c a week more than it was last year because the cost of living has gone up. Another argument advanced by governments justifying limited pension increases goes like this: 'Why look, over the last 20 years there has been suchandsuch an increase.' Of what relevance is it to say that such-and-such a pension was paid 20 years ago, by which government it was paid or how the money was raised then? We live in entirely different economic circumstances today from those which operated 20 years ago. 
Ridiculous arguments are sometimes put forward by governments on this subject. Sometimes the only argument advanced in justification of a pension increase is that it is such-and-such a percentage more than was paid 30 or 40 years ago. A few shots are fired off at the opposition or at the government of the day when the pension was introduced. The critics claim that the pension was paltry then, but where is the scientific background for the criticism? Where is there any investigation as to what the nation can afford? Where is there any investigation to find the requirements of the pensioners in this age, and to determine the proper standard at which they should live? This is a tremendously developed country and we should be able to compare past standards and the standard at which we can afford to enable our pensioners to live. After all, the amount which the Government produces is not even relevant, in view of the fluctuations in cost structures, to the actual living standards of pensioners. 
Sitting suspended from  5.45  to  8  p.m. 
 Before the suspension of the sitting, I was outlining the reasons why I thought that it was irresponsible of the Government and the Opposition to suggest that it was a complete impossibility for a government to accept the idea of an independent tribunal for one section of social services when this principle is accepted in respect of so many other parts of Government activity. But I think that another principle is contained in the proposition that the Australian Democratic Labor Party has put before the Senate today and on which we seek an expression of the Senate's opinion. This is that a committee of experts on social services should have representation of pensioners themselves embodied in it. 
I think that, as representatives of the people, we must all feel degraded that a pilgrimage to Canberra by pensioners from all over Australia takes place annually. Those pensioners try to exert a little public pressure to get what they consider to be their opinions, requirements and needs not only before the people of Australia but also before the Government itself. They come to Canberra by various means of transport and at great personal sacrifice and expense to themselves. Sometimes there is a public display on the steps of Parliament House of a Minister kissing a couple of elderly ladies. I would not like to suggest that such action was taken for purposes of publicity because we would hope that Ministers responsible for social services were not so inclined to seek publicity of that character. But it does happen. Surely it is degrading that pensioners should come to Canberra to plead a cause to nobody because, actually, no facilities are available for them to plead their cause or to put a proper case to anybody. They come here to try to exert pressure by means of a public display. 
Would it not be far more reasonable if these people could select some responsible individual to place their point of view - and surely their point of view is one which only they alone know and understand fully - before the people who make the final decision as to what should be the pensioner's share of the cake. We read continually that the Government says: Well, you cannot cut the cake up into more pieces than are available. You must be careful as to how you cut the cake up', and so on. Here is an opportunity, embodied in the opinion that we are asking the Senate to express on this Bill, to suggest that one of the pensioners should be right there at the core of the body that ultimately makes its recommendation based on ail the information that it can gather from everywhere as to what are the requirements of pensioners. Such a body could not but be improved by having as one of its members a person who is personally involved with pensioners and who could give to that body the kind of advice that pensioners considered that such an expert body should hear. Is not this the principle that we have embodied in most other public functions of today, whether this takes the form of an industrial tribunal, a prices tribunal or anything else? We try to get representatives of the affected sections of the community on to those bodies. 
I do not know that a taxpayer pays taxes for the purpose of pension payments only. Actually, what the taxpayer- 
He is not excluded because the other representatives on the committee would all be taxpayers, I would hope. Surely we are all involved in this respect. Even members of Parliament have a say in pensions and we can see the matter from the point of view of the taxpayer. The Minister has forgotten for the moment that even he is a taxpayer. We all share this common responsibility to the nation. Perhaps it is not a pleasure, but it is a necessary function. Surely members of Parliament are prepared to recognise- 
The taxpayers' representative? 
Ail the experts, I suggest, would be taxpayers. I would not suggest that we have a tribunal made up of elderly gentlemen who were all retired. Probably the only member of this body who would not be a taxpayer would be the one we propose as the pensioners' representative. At least such a tribunal could not but be improved if it had as one of its members one person who did not give a heck about how much any social services proposal would cost, because that representative would be a recipient. We need that attitude to obtain a balanced point of view. I suggest that at the moment the decision is made usually by the members of a parliamentary party, none of whom is a recipient of a pension but all of whom are salaried members of the community paid from the public purse. 
Finally, we return to the hackneyed argument that we hear from the leadership of the parties comprising both the Government and the Opposition to the effect that a proposal such as this cannot be done, that it is impossible even to consider it, that it would be silly and that it is phony. I think that  Senator Willesee  suggested that a Party should not even put up such a logical proposition as this because such action could not be taken for pensioners. He said that we could not have an independent tribunal suggesting what were pensioners' requirements and what ought to be paid to them because the Government has to find the money to implement such propositions. Yet, nobody knows what the other activities in which the Government indulges will cost when the Government sets out to indulge in those activities. 
Only a year or so ago we were all shocked because $60m was involved in meeting the guaranteed price for wheat. Nobody ever dreamed that such a sum would be required. But that was the amount involved in the decision that was made. Now we are engaged in a price maintenance activity with respect to the wool industry in which the Government. is purchasing the wool clip of this country in competition with legitimate buyers on the market in an endeavour to maintain prices. Will a senator from the Government side or from the Opposition side put a logical argument to me to show that they know what the ultimate cost of doing this will be? This Parliament made a decision - from memory,  I  think that it was made unanimously - that this was one way in which we at least should try to help the wool industry. We did not run away from this question because we did not know what the proposal would cost, or because somebody else might be making decisions in the matter. Are we not affected only by whether or not such a decision will be a fair decision, a right decision or a responsible decision? 
Yes, the Tariff Board can make decisions. If honourable senators turn lo the 'Commonwealth Directory' they will find set out on page after page the names of the commissions and tribunals that are involved in the expenditure of public money. Ultimately the cost of these bodies must be met from taxpayers' money because the Government has to foot the bill provided that the cause is in the interests of the whole of the community and provided- 
Yes, the tribunal is responsibly run and managed. Nobody is suggesting that there should be anything irresponsible about the fixation of pensions. We would all agree that any determination on pensions should be a responsible one made by a responsible body. All that we disagree with is the philosophy followed by the Government and the Opposition Parties. My Party has been prepared on 8 occasions now to try to put a logical argument before this Parliament on this question. It is the philosophy of the other Parties on which we disagree; that is all. I would like to think that any opposition from the Government and the Opposition to the philosophy which we expound on this question and that any decision they reached on it was based on logical grounds and not on the ground of prejudice or on the ground that it cannot be done because it has never been done before or that it cannot be done because the Government has to meet the bill and therefore must make the decision. 
I turn now to the argument that  Senator Willesee  put up. He was not very kindly, I might say, in his remarks towards this Party. On a question of this character, I do not wish to indulge in any backbiting or in any attempt to settle old scores.  Senator Willesee  was not very kind to us on this question when he suggested phoniness and everything else. But why should it be phony to put up a proposition that is as logical as this one is? I appeal to members of the Senate: If you are not prepared to express the opinion that we ask that you should express before the Bill is passed, at least give us your logical arguments and not arguments that are based purely on prejudice or on the principle that what is proposed has never happened before or has never been done anywhere before. 
Most good ideas must be tackled somewhere for the first time. This argument is so with respect to pensions. I do not know whether a modern economy could exist without a measure of social service payments particularly to elderly and sick people. A modern economy could not exist without such payments. When social service payments were first suggested they were said to be impossible because this had never been done before and the cost would wreck the nation. I can understand the limited view taken of this proposal by the Government. But the Opposition - a Party that is alleged to be radical - is prepared to shut its mind completely against this new idea and will reject it because, it says, what is proposed cannot be done or should not be done. Or is it that the Opposition is too frightened to face the consequences of our proposal? All we know is that the method of deciding pensions in the last 15 years has been unsatisfactory and has brought no joy to any section of the community. The pensioners finish up dissatisfied; the Government finishes up frustrated; Opposition members finish up not knowing whether they should pass a Bill to give the pensioners the little that is offered or whether they should reject the little that is offered to go for something bigger for the pensioners. It has been a political question. But then we come along with a logical proposition. 
Let us take this matter out of politics into an arena where no-one from either side of the chamber can make political capital from it. Let us ensure that in future we do not have the age old argument: 'Gee, we have done a great job for pensioners; we have given them 10c more than anyone has ever given them before.' Especially do we not want this argument when the cost of living has been rampaging upwards, when we all know that the 50c or $1 that the pensioners have received has long gone in increased prices before they have received any of it. I suggest that the proposition advanced by the DLP is logica] and that after a logical debate on the subject the Senate should be prepared to express the opinion that we have stated. 
In putting the point of view of my Party on the matter of urgency I think I should begin by complimenting  Senator Murphy  for bringing this matter before this chamber so that we might have the chance of discussing it. This is a rather topical question at the moment. Even international societies have been formed recently which hold the view that the world will perish if it populates. I am grateful to  Senator Murphy  for bringing this question before the chamber. I can see already that this subject has had some impact upon his thinking in view of previous statements he has made in debate in this place. I welcome this afternoon his definitions of Australia's particular situation and his recognition of the tremendous population growth in 2 of our major cities. I gathered from his remarks that he deplored such a set of circumstances, yet I well recall that I interjected while he was making a speech in this place on one occasion and he referred to me and my colleagues as belonging to a peasant party because we believed in decentralisation. He expounded the theory that we must promote a greater concentration into the major cities so that we may achieve proper production for defence purposes and so on. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. Is he aware that during the past week Melbourne newspapers have reported that among those people who are allegedly mounting a protective guard against Commonwealth police at the University of Melbourne were union delegations and housewives' committees? In the process of attempting to apprehend the lawbreakers hidden at Melbourne University have the police collected any evidence indicating that unauthorised persons were on the campus? If the news reports to this effect are proven true it would be impossible for the University authorities to deny knowledge of this fact. Would the Commonwealth then take action to charge those authorities with harbouring persons for whom warrants for arrest exist? 
I believe that we all are indebted to  Senator Wright  for the arguments he has placed before this chamber. In his concluding remarks he challenged those who hold a different point of view on the issue that is before us to answer them. Let me say at the outset that in the final analysis we will hold different points of view.  1  am not so completely sure that my own point of view is right that my mind is closed to the arguments of others. On this question I believe that it would be foolish for any of us to adopt that attitude. I am dealing with what I consider to be the fundamental principle rather than the Bill itself. When I talk of the abolition of capital punishment I talk of it in the field of civil law. I have to admit that I have not exercised my mind or my conscience as to how the death penalty would apply in the circumstances  Senator Wright  outlined, namely, in time of warfare when treason and treachery are involved and when the wellbeing of a whole nation and the lives of perhaps thousands of men who are serving their country can be endangered by the act of treachery of one individual. 
I come now to the fundamentals of the argument and the differences between crimes. I throw back at  Senator Wright  an argument that he used towards the end of his speech. A criminal, in desperation, on the verge of arrest by an officer of the law, may produce a firearm that he took with him to the scene of the crime and kill the officer of the law. That is one kind of crime. But, if he were to pick up an iron bar or something that happened to be lying close handy and strike the policeman with it and kill him, 1 would argue that that was a different kind of crime. I think the law makes some allowance for that. We must admit that all of us - members of Parliament as well as criminals who may be committing crimes - are human. A person may never have intended to use violence, but the instinct of self-preservation may operate in a moment of extreme panic and cause him to grasp something, throw it or strike with it and kill. Is that a crime of the same degree as that of somebody who takes a firearm with him for the purpose of killing anybody who interferes with him? I suggest that it is not. 
The fact that the victim was a policeman acting in the execution of his duty may have a sentimental connotation and may invoke the sympathy of those of us who recognise that we as a community give these men a horrible job and pay them inadequate wages to apprehend criminals and to preserve law and order. There are those in our community who want to demean the hard working men who happen to be policemen and who hold that those men are less than the best in the community although they perform one of the finest and most difficult tasks on behalf of the rest of us. I am not one of those. 1 am on the side of the policemen. It is unfortunate if a man happens to be a policeman when somebody, in a moment of desperation and when driven by the instinct of selfpreservation, kills him. But in my view the invoking of the extreme measures of the law would not be warranted in those circumstances because it is a fact that all of us have built into our system that instinct of self-preservation which, just as it can take over when it is right that it should do so to enable us to protect ourselves when we are legitimately engaged in our everyday activities, can take over when we are criminals committing crimes against society. 
When we talk about punishment and whether or not it should act as a deterrent, to see the matter in the right perspective we must say something about the crimes themselves. The Minister for Works suggested that in the extreme strain of imminent execution the tremendous terror faced by the person to be executed indeed must be a deterrent. But those people do not know that extreme feeling of terror until that actual moment arrives and the crime has long been committed. If we wish that moment of terror or those moments or hours of extreme terror to act as a deterrent against crime in our community, we must go back to the more primitive age when executions were displayed publicly. Thus everybody can see the moments of terror. Of course, if we begin to think like that-- 
I do not need your assistance.  Senator Georges. 
These are . my own thoughts on a specific subject, and 1 need no help from you. The point that  I  make about this whole subject is that if we adopt that procedure and we put on public display as a deterrent the execution of those who have committed these crimes, surely we must return to the days of the torture chambers, the public displays of the bodies, even hanging in chains from the gibbets, as happened in England in a more primitive age. I do not think that anybody would suggest that we should do that as a deterrent. Despite the point of view put by the Minister, I do not think that the moments of terror of those to be executed act very much as a deterrent at all. 
Thinking about this subject, I do believe that some crimes of violence - the most coldly calculated and thought out crimes such as the hijacking of aircraft or the holding to ramsom of a child to extract money from its parents - are such that the deterrent of a death penalty in itself would operate. These crimes are coldly thought out. The advantages and gains which may flow to the perpetrator of the crime from the deed that he commits are reckoned as a matter of cold clear thinking. Surely he takes into account the possibilities of apprehension and the penalty that will be imposed if he is apprehended. 
That may be an excuse with some people. But I think that many of these crimes are committed by people who are sufficiently intelligent to know the dangers. They weigh the risks and finally decide to take the chance. Whilst I concede that the honourable senator may be right in many instances, there must be some instances in which the possibility of being caught is considered. If they were not considering the possibility that they may make a mistake these people would not take such care to plan so that they will not be caught. That is my thinking on that point. 
These views do not apply to some of the crimes which arouse the indignation of most of us and indeed almost bring a desire for revenge. These are crimes of impulse and passion. In regard to these crimes that can almost be described as impulsive, it is unlikely that the death penalty in itself would constitute any deterrent whatsoever because I do not believe that the crime is approached with cold reasoning. For that reason, I do not think that the perpetrator of such a crime gives any consideration at all to what penalty he may face for committing that crime. Those are my thoughts on some of these prominent arguments which are used when this question is discussed in Parliament, in the Press or anywhere else. I wonder whether I am right in coming to the conclusion that I have reached with respect to some modern crimes, such as the hijacking of aircraft, that we should abolish the death penalty for civil crimes, although the hijacking, for personal gain, of an aircraft with hundreds of people on board may not be considered to be a normal civil crime. I do not think that I really have to make up my mind about that matter because the one reason that has caused me finally to be opposed to the death penalty for civil crimes is one that has not been mentioned in this chamber. 
I am one who is concerned about the method by which we execute. In more primitive ages, so it is said, the criminal was given a jug of hemlock which he had to drink. In those days civilisation required those criminals to execute themselves by the simple act of drinking a jug of hemlock. Today, we have many and various methods of execution throughout the world. But, in the final analysis, the basic fact is that somebody has to do the job on behalf of society. My greatest concern is not with the criminal who is executed but with the brutalisation of the mind of the person to whom we give the job of execution. However needed by society an execution is, and however much one may argue that a person should be executed, I ask: What have we done to the man who pulls the rope? What have we done to the man who presses the button? 

 Senator Georges is trying to interject but his simplifications do not attract me at all. I am trying to get at the grass roots of this matter. I do not wish to repeat a lot of jargon and slogans that somebody else has pumped out as propaganda to win an argument.  1  am trying to illustrate the point that, in this final act, in trying to equate punishment to a terrible and awful crime society, may be perpetrating something against somebody who is not associated in any way with the crime but who, perhaps desperate for a job, accepts the responsibility of becoming a public hangman. 
How many people can that man hang before he becomes completely mentally brutalised? If he does not become completely mentally brutalised, how much does he become destroyed from within because his profession is the taking of human life? 
That may be so for the honourable senator but not for me. In war, a man has a spirit of self-protection and all the instincts of mankind which drive him to do something that he must do - and he does it. But when a man is employed to hang, for a week or so before the execution he knows the job that is in front of him. He is not involved in the matter personally.  His  safety and security are not at risk.  His  instincts are entirely different. For the same reason, his mental approach must be entirely different. An honourable senator has interjected that he must be a born killer. I do not accept that at all. He is no different in our society from you or me. Nobody is a born killer any more than anybody is a bom saint. 
This is my concern: If we accept as a general principle in our society that we will hang, that we will electrocute or that we will adopt some other action for the eradication of the life of a person who has taken a life, should we nol be concerned about the person who finally must do the job of execution? If we believe in execution, should we not be the first to volunteer? If nobody else in our society is prepared to pull the rope and to hang a person, should not I. if I am one who believes that it should be done, be the first to volunteer? Because I could nol volunteer. I mast fall down on the side of those who say that in respect of civil crimes at least - this is my view - we should not persevere with the death penalty. For that reason. I propose to vote in support of the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. Does he recall a question asked by me on 18th August this year to which his reply was: That is a series of most interesting questions which I shall direct to the responsible Minister'? My question now is: Were the questions referred to the responsible Minister? If so, when may I expect a reply? 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  Will you make some inquiries to find out what has happened to a question I put on notice last Wednesday, 29th September, addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry and of which no record appears on the notice paper? 
We are indebted to  Senator Guilfoyle  for outlining to us the technical terms of the 3 Pay-Roil Tax Bills under discussion. I shall relate my remarks rather to the overall principles which are involved. I shall indicate where the Democratic Labor Party to which I belong stands on this matter. First of all, pay-roll tax is an iniquitous, wrong and base tax. I suggest that anybody who suggested introducing a pay-roll tax in the 1930s would have been immediately annihilated politically because the temper of the people would have been such that they would have stood for no tax on a pay-roll at that time. Indeed, as far as taxation is concerned, a pay-roll should be more sacrosanct than charity. When all is said and done this is a tax on what a man earns. In this community those who pay wages enable our economy to exist. This is an iniquitous tax because there is no fair basis of levelling it. Since the war years the Commonwealth has been most vicious in imposing this tax, particularly upon the States. Of course the States are going to be enriched not only because they now have a growth tax but also because they are not going to have to pay to the Commonwealth the enormous tax on their own payrolls. 
What justification could there be for taxing the pay-roll of a State? The tax was not paid on profit. It was paid for the purpose of running institutions such as hospitals and schools. The more hospitals and schools a State provided the more pay-roll tax it was paying to the Commonwealth. Where could there be fairness of mind or purpose in levying a tax of this character? Over the years what has the pay-roll tax done to local government bodies? I can turn the clock of my memory back some 15 years. I remember the late  Hon.  Tom Brennan in the Victorian Legislative Council moving that at least the States should be exempt from this iniquitous tax. With the wage levels applying at that time the tax was not nearly as serious a proposition as it ultimately became. It was one of the major factors which was causing the States to become bankrupt and making the Commonwealth an affluent taxing authority. It is beyond my reasoning to understand how any political party, allegedly representing State interests in this place, could in any way deprecate a proposal for the Commonwealth to vacate this field of taxation. I think it is unfortunate that because of the very poverty stricken circumstances of State finances, with the vacating of this field of taxation by the Commonwealth, the States are forced to enter this field an J to grasp some growth factor in taxation. 
Previously, the States have had the right to levy an entertainment tax. That tax did not rise every time wages went up. But the payroll tax which the States had to pay to the Commonwealth did. This is one of the reasons why the States gradually became so impoverished that there was almost a national crisis in Commonwealth-State financial relations, lt was suggested that this crisis be solved by imposing an equally iniquitous form of taxation which was the turnover tax. This tax was paid whether or not one made a profit. Previously it was a form of taxation which had been feasible only on the race track and in the gambling industries. As such industries manufactured nothing, created nothing and ran little chance of loss, it was found that bookmakers could pay a turnover tax. Then, of course, this phosophy was extended by the States to general trading as a desperate means of obtaining some form of income which would grow with the general growth of turnover within the community. A Commonwealth Treasurer irresponsibly said in a newspaper article that the tax could be increased 10 times, lt was only the very minor amount which was levied and not the principle of the tax which enabled it to operate at all. What a multiplication by 10 times of the payroll tax would have done to people acting in an agency capacity, such as stockbrokers, I would shudder to think if 1 were one who clung tenaciously to the belief that stockbrokers or estate agents were necessay It would have been impossible for certain people to function but a Federal Treasurer went on record as saying that if the States were in trouble they could increase the turnover tax by up to 10 times its then level. 
The Bills before us mean that the Commonwealth is to abandon a bad field of taxation which is known as 'payroll tax'. This tax was introduced under war time conditions on the understanding that it would disappear. It was forced upon the community by circumstances of war. As I said before, it was levied viciously against non-profit earning organisations such as State and local government bodies to the extent that it was one of the major factors which ensured that such bodies became debt ridden to the Commonwealth. Ultimately the Commonwealth had to write off untold millions of dollars which were owed by the States in interest on debts which they had incurred to enable them to pay payroll tax and other such taxes to the Commonwealth. As I have said before in this chamber, little children playing shop would not believe in this tax as a form of financing. But apparently governments can receive advice from alleged experts and consider that this tax is a way in which revenue can be raised - a painless extraction method by which the people will be taxed and they will not know that they are being taxed. 
There is no qualification that under this form of tax a man who is paying a substantial payroll and contributing to the economy of the nation is actually making a profit. A man can be showing a loss on his business enterprise yet the Government says: 'We want a share of the profit which you are not making because you happen to be paying wages to people who work and earn them'. When the situation is put that way does the tax sound a very feasible or fair proposition? In this day and age we are presuming that everybody who has a payroll sufficiently large enough to attract payroll tax must be making a profit. Yet today we are on a swing in the economy which makes it very doubtful - particularly in industrial enterprises - whether many businesses are making a profit which is equivalent to the profit which can be derived by the direct investment of money in Commonwealth loans. Of course one can obtain certain rebates on that investment. But if one runs a business enterprise and pays wages to workers to manufacture goods which can be sold on a market and in the process one shows a loss, then one becomes subject to a tax. 
We are opposed to the philosophy behind payroll tax. But this field of taxation has now been vacated by the Commonwealth. The States may now impose the lax. We say that in this chamber at least the Commonwealth measures should be supported. The measure which goes to the extent of imposing in Commonwealth Territories some equality with what the Slates propose to do is an unfortunate repercussion of the whole business of payroll tax. lt is unreasonable to expect that if a tax of this character is to be levied by the States because of their financial circumstances the Commonwealth Territories should be free of this tax. That would contravene the principle that  Senator Wilkinson  was speaking about when he said there would be a serious threat to the economy of the nation if a tax were levied in some areas but not generally throughout the Commonwealth. If territories under the control of the Commonwealth were exempt people operating in those territories would be in particularly advantageous circumstances. It is not our function here to decide whether the States should take over and extend the payroll tax but rather to decide whether the Commonwealth, after abandoning it, should reimpose it in areas under Commonwealth control in order to maintain equality with the States. 
We see no choice in this matter at this time other than to vote for the termination of Commonwealth levied payroll tax and for it to be reimposed in Commonwealth Territories in order to make them compatible with the States. We hope that government financing in the future will not be based on payroll tax and taxes which have no relationship to the income or prosperity of the individuals who have to pay or the businesses which have to pay, particularly those which happen to be snowing a loss in their enterprises. This is like taxing the unemployed - people with no income at all. I ask honourable senators whether they agree with that philosophy. Do they agree that we should tax a business man who is only breaking even on the payroll that he pays his employees? There may be some people in this chamber who regard the whole of the employing class as monsters or who want to create the impression that they are monsters. I do not subscribe to that philosophy. 
Many of the employers I have worked with and for have been very sensible and high minded people I have known businesses to go bankrupt because the employer has endeavoured to employ for too long some of the labour that was redundant in the existing business circumstances. This happened in the shoe industry with which I was concerned. In the 1930s there were innumerable cases of employers who went broke trying to maintain in employment labour that was no longer required because of poor turnover. If the same circumstances that applied then applied now, the man going bankrupt would be levied payroll tax. I suggest that in the circumstances at that time, when so many people were involved, it would have been political annihilation for anybody to suggest that course. That principle is still true. 
Any honourable senator on either side of this chamber who is not prepared to stand and say that we ought to tax the unemployed ought to realise that measures like payroll tax and turnover tax mean the same thing to business people who are not making a profit. Those honourable senators should realise that they would be imposing upon those people who had the initiative to start businesses in the community - manufacturing, retail and others - a situation they would not attempt to impose on people simply working for a salary, whether they be professional men or employees in industry. 
The payroll tax principle is wrong,  Mr Deputy President,  and we are glad that at last the Commonwealth is abandoning the field although we regret the circumstances under which it is doing so. We believe that this is an iniquitous tax that ought to disappear from our statute book. Taxes ought to be imposed by the governments in this country on those who show by their record that they can afford to pay - those who are making profits and earning money irrespective of how it is earned. That is a fair basis. We should get rid of these insidious, undercover, underhand methods of extracting the finance which is necessary in order to run the country. 
1 seek leave to make my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned- 
My question is addressed to you,  Mr President.  Are you aware,  Sir, that  for the whole of this session of the Parliament the 4 fountains immediately in front of Parliament House have not functioned? Do you know whether this is part of an economy campaign or is due to mechanical failure? If the reason is economy, could the Senate be informed what money has been saved in sacrificing the lovely vista once presented to Australian and overseas visitors? 
1 indicated that 1 am prepared to support the motion before the chamber which was moved by  Senator Greenwood  for the adjournment of this debate. 1 do not believe that we have any other proposition before us, in spite of the backchat which we have had across the chamber making various suggestions as to how or why this should be done. As has been said this is to be a free vote for many honourable senators in this chamber. In the Australian Democratic Labor Party, to which I belong, we have differences of opinion on the matter. I, indeed, have an almost unique reason for making the final decision on the issue as to why I stand in favour of the principle of the abolition of capital punishment in the case of civil crime. I believe and subscribe to the ideas that we have the moral right to take life for some crimes which are committed. The attempt to extort money from parents by using their child as a hostage, who is destroyed, in my opinion gives society the moral right to extort the extreme penalty. But what, as I see it, society does not have the right to do is to appoint somebody to do the destroying. That may be a unique and peculiar reason for being opposed to the infliction of capital punishment. My stand is not in the interests of the person who has perpetrated some particularly dastardly and unspeakable crime, not in the interest of preserving his life - because I believe that he would have sacrificed his right to life - but because I would not subscribe to the brutalisation of an innocent human being by giving someone the task of destroying such an obnoxious perversion of humanity as one who had committed crimes of the type which I have just illustrated. 
For those reasons I am satisfied to make an indication on the principle, as I have done in the course of the discussion on the Bill. But I am one who falls down on the fine line. 1 am not too sure that in the final analysis society will not find that, my conscience being what it is, it has created a second set of circumstances which may ultimately react quite detrimentally to society as a whole. But that matter has not yet been proven. I do not suppose that it ever will be proven by debate and argument. I do not think that this is a clear cut issue of black and white. I do not think that one has to decide in great haste to be for or against the principle. I see no reason for haste. I think that further consideration should be given to the matter as long as there are doubts in the minds of some honourable members in this chamber. I do not look on winning this issue by one, four or five votes as a great political triumph. 1 see nothing political in the issue. I see a principle and a yearning of humanity towards higher ideals and a better way of life, and I see in this proposal a means of defining how we feel towards our fellow human beings. That being the case, I do not think that time is so important a factor in dealing with this measure. 
If society has been wrong in exacting a penalty of death, it has been doing the wrong thing, by various means, for a long time. If in the interests of protecting society we take some months more than perhaps is necessary to abolish capital punishment, in view of the reluctance on the part of any government in Australia today to carry out the death penalty, would the delay be so important? Before taking such a step I would rather be absolutely sure that we had explored every avenue, not here in the heat of debate where we can easily be misled but rather in the atmosphere of a committee hearing. I hope that  Senator Murphy  has not prejudiced my judgment on this issue, but, being human, I tend to be suspicious about some of his arguments because he has misrepresented the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party towards the appointment of committees, and he has done so merely to win a point tonight. He knows that we supported the appointment of committees but advocated some restraint because of practical and logical difficulties that would arise from bringing the committees into operation immediately. The passage of time alone has proved that our attitude on that occasion was perhaps more reasonable and sensible than was the attitude of honourable senators who rushed the proposition through the Senate long before we were in  a  position to give practical expression to the system or to solve the practical problems of committees being able to meet their commitments. 1 do not think that the proposal before the Senate is a device introduced by the Government for the purpose of burying the Bill. Many Government supporters have expressed an independent view on this subject and, for differing reasons, in some cases with qualifications and in some cases without qualification, have expressed support for the abolition of capital punishment. Some have argued from a deeply religious sense and others have spoken in other than a religious sense. The attitude that I have expressed has nothing whatever to do with any religious belief that I may hold. For this reason 1 suggest that it is wrong for the Press to charge anybody who wishes to have time in which to study this matter or to enable a committee to consider it with adopting a device to bury the Bill. Honourable senators who have taken part in the debate and who are aware of the non-political way in which this measure has been considered know that such a charge is wrong. 
I do not know with certainty what the policy of the Australian Labor Party is on this question today or whether, as in some other parties, it varies from State to State. But when I see  a  complete unanimity, with an issue such as this being absolutely black or absolutely white, with no qualification whatever, as a reasonable person I can only accept that some degree of regimentation has been introduced. Wherever this matter has been discussed by fair-minded people there have been those who nave been in favour of it, those who have been against it, and between them a great number of people who have tremendous reservations, no matter what they might finally decide on the issue. 1 become suspicious when I find that the entire membership of a political party has no reservations on a question, and perhaps I may be forgiven for thinking that some members of the party have been silenced or are afraid to express their true opinion. 
If it is part of the policy of the Party then everybody in this chamber does not have a free vote on the issue. If that is admitted, I have no objection to it being so, but I think it should be clearly admitted because then the qualifications and reservations will not be shown to be on the one side. It may be that some who are prepared to vote for the abolition of capital punishment and who will do so because it is Party policy share some of the reservations that I have expressed, I am prepared to vote for the motion proposed by the Attorney-General in order to express my view on a principle. 1 hope that the resolution for the adjournment of the debate so that the matter may be considered by a committee will be carried, with no negotiated qualifications whatever. 
I wish to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party does not consider that the amendment, if carried, would have a significant effect on the Bill. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. As it has been ascertained by  Mr President  that the fountains immediately in front of Parliament House have been closed down for cleaning and maintenance, can the Senate be informed as to how much more time will be required to complete such maintenance? Is it likely that the investigation which is taking place of the accumulation of leaves will be concluded before the autumn fall, or are the investigators waiting to examine the evidence that will be provided by the trees next April? 
When this measure was before the Senate earlier 1 was about to put the point of view to the Australian Democratic Labor 
Pary on the proposed amendment to the motion that the Bill be read a second time. We approve of this Bill, lt results from a request by the industry which has had problems of varying size in different parts of Australia in the last year or two. The purpose of this Bill should not be confused with the problems of the canning industry, particularly in the areas where pears are grown. Last year the pear crop was a great embarrassment to the industry and to the canneries. This Bill relates to the production of apples and pears grown mainly, it seems, for export. This industry has a large Interest in Tasmania and I have no douh that that is what inspired the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  who is from Tasmania, to speak in this debate. 
The DLP has had no representations from the industry in regard to this Bill. Representatives nf the industry have put their case to the Government and have received some co-operation. We were not swept away by the figures cited by the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman),  who introduced the measure in the Senate as the representative of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  He said that about SI Om will be spent over a period of 5 years in an endeavour to achieve stabilisation in the industry. If stabilisation can be achieved as cheaply as that, the expenditure will certainly be worthwhile, particularly in view of the large sums that have been spent on other primary industries that are at present in trouble. 
My Party has had no representations from the industry to suggest that the proposed amendment would be acceptable to it in any shape or form, it is true that in many primary industries a single national marketing authority is of advantage, but because of the localised nature of the apple and pear industry in particular States, and the different purposes for which the fruit is produced  -  I refer particularly to the canning industry, which is extensive in Victoria - it may not be wise to suggest that what is adequate for other primary industries by way of a national marketing authority should be imposed upon this industry; that is, unless the industry expressed very strong views in that direction. 
If the apple and pear growing industry favours a national marketing authority, its representatives have not conveyed that view to us. Therefore we assume that the industry has no strong views on the question. In the absence of advice from the industry we are unable to gauge its requirements. We believe that the Bill is adequate to achieve the measure of stability in the industry that is required by the growers. We will support the Bill as it stands and oppose the proposed amendment. 
For the purpose of clarity I feel that 1 must reply to what  Senator Milliner  said in his attempt to clarify paragraph (a) of the reason for his motion. It contains the words:  the carrying on of operations wholly or partly for the purposes of the production of apples and pears, 
He said that that paragraph was designed to cover a person who was partly engaged in the production of apples and pears. If a person produces apples or pears, he is producing them. If he sells them for export through the Apple and Pear Board, they are part and parcel of the scheme. As I read the paragraph, if somebody came to Melbourne as part of a jaunt to see the Melbourne Cup and if he took back some spray to spray a pear or apple orchard, in Melbourne he has been engaged in an operation partly for the purpose of the production of apples or pears. I cannot see how one could read anything else into that paragraph. It refers to operations wholly or partly for the purposes of the production of apples and pears. It has nothing to do with the person who may be a part time producer of pears and who is producing strawberries or something else as another line. If a man were producing one bushel of pears and the rest of the production from his orchard was strawberries, under this paragraph he is partly engaged in the production of pears. In the interpretation of  Senator Milliner,  somehow he would be eligible for a support price for that portion of his skills which were devoted to the production of strawberries. 
You may think that it does not. I think that it does. As a matter of fact, that is what  Senator Milliner  said. 
It states:  . . increases  or  decreases in prices, wages or rates of charges . . . payable in connection with: 
the carrying on of operations wholly or partly . . . 
The operation has to be only partly concerned with the production of apples or pears. If the price rises or falls, that will affect him. 
It may not give him anything at all. I am talking about what the paragraph says, not your interpretation of it. If my interpretation of plain English is wrong and if  Senator Milliner's  interpreat ion and your interpretation are right, I will be happy for the Committee to tell me so. But I cannot read into the paragraph anything other than what it says. It refers to increases and decreases in prices and then it refers to 'the carrying on of operations'. The operations are the production of apples or pears. Then it says 'wholly or partly for the purposes of the production of apples and pears'. 
I know what the honourable senator was endeavouring to say, but I am saying that the provision does not say what he suggested it said. However, I do not think (hat that matter is of  a  particularly serious character when applied to the whole philosophy behind the argument which is that, for some strange reason unknown to any of us, when the prices are evaluated and when it is seen that the industry needs particular help within the limitations of the amount that has been prescribed for 5 years, for some perverse reason the Minister for Primary Industry will allocate an amount lower than is required by the growers and at the end of 5 years he will finish up with a surplus from the $10m that has been allocated. If that was the Minister's purpose I do not think the Bill would have been introduced. lt is obvious that the amount of assistance to be given is designed to provide stabilisation for the industry when affected by an uneconomic export price. The Minister has a particular sum that he is allowed to spend. If the honourable senator's philosophy were true, the only way in which the Minister could finish up with a surplus would be if the export price obtained put the industry in such a prosperous state that it could not show cause why it should get public money to assist it to the extent of $10m over 5 years. If that is the argument, have all these precautionary provisions, which have become so confusing and which allow a man who has been to the Melbourne Cup and who has bought spray on the way to say: 'I. was partly engaged in the production of pears while I was in Melbourne. I got the spray. Therefore the cost of the trip and the labour costs can be part of the costs of production'? 
The Minister has been given $10m over 5 years to stabilise the prices that are obtained or to meet the difference between the export prices obtained and what is necessary for the industry to function on a profitable basis. For that reason I think there is no need to introduce into the philosophy of the Bill a proposition that the Minister might budget to have at the end of 5 years an impoverished industry and a surplus from the $10m. If the proposal were to be accepted, it would be sound to leave the upper limit of payment completely open to cope with the things that the Opposition seeks to introduce. The upper limit would have to be left completely open and not limited to the $1 Om prescribed in the legislation. By our vote on the motion 'That the Bill be now read a second time', we have already agreed to that amount. Despite the argument advanced by  Senator Milliner,  we find no merit in the motion to postpone the clause. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Supply, upon  notice: 
Did the Department of Supply recently accept a tender to provide 300 musical drums for the Royal Australian Army at$54 per instrument. 
Was a tender of $44.75 per drum submitted by a company which has previously supplied such instruments to the Royal Australian Army and which also exports drums. 
Why were drums purchased at a cost nearly 25 per cent higher than the tender mentioned in (2). 
How does the cost of an additional $3,000 on one contract assist the Government's economy drive and help to control inflation. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Supply. Will he inform the Senate whether any proposition to amalgamate the Government Aircraft Factories and the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation is being investigated? If such an amalgamation is being considered, will he inform the Senate of the circumstances surrounding such contemplation and will the Parliament be fully informed before any commitments are entered into? 
I wish to indicate the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party for the measure before the House, and, like some other honourable senators, voice some doubts and make some suggestions to the Government as a means of  asssiting  this very sorely pressed industry. I admire both  Senator Wilkinson  and  Senator Prowse  for their very forthright statements of confidence in this industry. I would hope to share their confidence but, I hope, not blindly so, because I am reminded that in my early days of studying the history of the great industrial movements of the world 1  read that in the establishment of the labour unions in France one of the great industrial strikes was the strike of  50,000  silk weavers in the city of Lyon in France. There would be no silk weavers in France today but for that strike, and it is possible that the demand for a commodity would have completely disappeared.  1  join with the other  2  honourable senators in their optimistic approach, but do not let us be blindly optimistic. Let us remember the enormous competition that is now beginning to concentrate from the synthetic industries against this particular commodity. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. In view of the answer received by me to a previous question asked of the  President  concerning the fountains outside Parliament House - I stated that they were closed down for repairs and to investigate an accumulation of leaves - and as the fountains have not operated for 6 months, can the Minister inform me whether the repairs are being carried out in the still watches of the night as I have observed no activity in the area during the last month? How much longer  will the investigation and repairs take before overseas and Australian visitors can again enjoy one of the most spectacular sights of this city? 
 I could be grateful to  Senator Cotton  for bringing the debate back to the real issue in the motion; that is the implications for Australia's defence and security. The motion refers to great events that have taken place in the world in the last week and their effect on the circumstances under which Australia should consider those matters. The motion makes no comment on whether the events of history were justified or unjustified, or whether the Australian Democratic Labor Party has one view and the Australian Labor Party has four or five different views, as is usual in the field of international affairs. That is irrelevant to our discussion tonight. 
I could be grateful to  Senator Cotton  if he did not depend so much upon sentiment in saying that we have performed well in the past when challenged and we will perform as well again in the future. They are very high sounding words, and they are true, but in pronouncing them we should never forget that although we performed well once before, that is no justification for lack of preparedness now. I think my colleague  Senator Byrne  achieved the purpose of the DLP in this debate when he spoke to this Parliament as a statesman. We are seeking to give leadership to the Australian people so that they may think constructively about a situation that we do not seek but which may confront us in the future. 
Let us consider the arguments. Who would attempt to deny that Britain's entry into the European Economic Community will make an enormous difference in the Pacific area, a difference that will grow with the years if history is to repeat itself as it has the happy knack of doing? We are dealing with the probabilities and nobody knows whether the experiment of Britain's entry will succeed. To date it is only an economic experiment and it is nol known for how long the European Economic Community will endure. But we must assume that it will last and that Australia will feel the effects, although they will be minor compared to the effects on New Zealand. Fiji, Samoa and other nations in the Pacific area. 
The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  rightly said that Australia is a leader in the Pacific area. It must take a leader's part and play a leader's role if it is to be regarded as a leader by its neighbours and friends. We may even have to come to the economic assistance of much smaller nations in this area which are less strong economically than we are. Inevitably there will be repercussions for them from Britain's involvement in the Common Market. The DLP does not criticise Britain for taking this step, for trying this experiment. Britain has earned the right to do so through her sacrifices to preserve freedom in the last war. We are the first to recognise that right and have no criticism at all of Britain. However, we are alarmed at a point that emerged from 2 speeches made by members of the Opposition. It was mentioned almost casually in passing by  Senator Keeffe  that since 1957 the writing has been on the wall. We have heard a lot of talk but I am sure there has been very little action to counter what must be the inevitable repercussions of the decision of the mother country. We have tried time and again to draw the attention of Australians to this problem. Wc do not want to see and do not expect catastrophic results for Australia, but in all these issues we must plan not only for what appears to be obvious but also for what may happen. 
I have mentioned some of the nations in the Pacific that will be affected. Others will look to Australia because of the effect on their defence even though Britain's entry into the Common Market may not produce trading repercussions for them. I have in mind the Condominium of the New Hebrides. I refer, too, to the French possession of New Caledonia which is in our area. I refer above all to Papua New Guinea and West Irian, a vast expanse of territory the mineral wealth of which is unknown to the world at present. Those people who speak idly, as  Senator Keeffe  did, may not properly understand the position. He seemed to think it important to prove whether I was a hero or a conscientious objector. I regard conscientious objectors as heroes and that is why I said he lied when he said that I was one. The late John Curtin was a conscientious objector and he sent men to war when it was necessary for this country's defence. I have never had the courage to be a conscientious objector. I went along with things as they came. It is irrelevant to this discussion whether I am an arrant coward or not. I am speaking tonight of the interests of Australia and I make no excuses to anyone for my record. I say that to people who may think it important enough to track down what I have done in my lifetime. 
It is not necessary to use a great deal of imagination to visualise what can happen in the Pacific area now that it seems that the world is heading in a particular direction. Quite conceivably the world should in this area fear not an invasion of Australia but a major clash between Communist Russia and Communist China.  Senator Keeffe  could well ask how we would become involved in that clash between 2 major powers, armed to the teeth as they are. He seems to have no objection or word of criticism because Communist China and Communist Russia have nuclear weapons. But if we speak of a nuclear deterrent for Australia, that seems to be the absolute of stupidity for Australians. 
Well, if the honourable senator thought that we could hold Japan back last time with broomsticks that we had at the beginning and if he wants to see this repeated, he is entitled to his point of view. My leader,  Senator Gair,  went on a television programme the other night and pointed out the necessity for it, with 2 major powers armed to the teeth as Russia and China are in the Pacific area. If we are sensible we are inevitably led to the fact, whatever the consequences are, that Japan, which is a free agent, which has a population of 100 million people and which is the greatest economic power in the area, has to take steps to arm itself - unless we go there and prevent the Japanese from rearming - to compete with those major powers that are not friendly towards it and which are so close to its shores 
If all these major powers in the area become involved in even a disputation among themselves the mineral wealth of this country, the mineral prospects of New Guinea and -the wealth of nickel in new Caledonia will become involved 

 - Senator Keeffe, with due respect,  Sir, keep  your cheap little enunciations of propaganda statements for an issue more worthy of them. We are discussing the future security of this great nation of ours. We are trying to deal not with what we know but what the facts of history surely have taught us to be the things that we must take into consideration 
The Territory of Papua New Guinea today is the reseponsibility of Australia. Who knows what will happen in the future? 1 have no hesitation in saying that we were disappointed at the attitude taken at the United Nations to a small nation like Taiwan. Australia may be the next country to be expelled from the United Nations because, at the request of the people of Papua New Guinea, we may be prepared to stay for longer than the United Nations, for the political reasons of some of the nations which sit there, thinks we should. Is that or is that not a political possibility in the United Nations as it functions today? We should remember the responsibilities that this nation has accepted towards the Territory of Papua New Guinea and the enormous amount of economic aid that as a prime responsibility we have thrown into that area over the last 15 to 20 years The Territory is only just beginning to modestly develop some copper resources - copper being a mineral that would be of absolute necessity in time of war anywhere in the world. We live in this area 
There are those who say that the records of Australian Democratic Labor Party senators are important to a discussion of this magnitude What has history taught us of those countries which have no democracy today? I well remember  Senator Wheeldon  standing up in this chamber only 2 years ago and denouncing the Russian invasion of Czcheslovakia. But tonight he says that an invasion by Russia could take place in Czechoslovakia, which is a fellow-Communist country of Russia, but it could never happen to Australia. One doubts the reasons why people enunciate these 2 different philosophies which are so closely associated 
I agree with the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  who expressed the hopes of us all about what the admission of mainland China to the United Nations may do for China. But the historical facts of her behaviour to date and the behaviour of her fellow Communist colossus, Russia, are against our hopes being fulfilled. If I am wrong about that then I am wrong about everything. However, history, of course, substantiates and makes my statement true, and all honourable senators know it. The Australian Labor Party knows it because that Party could not stomach what happened so recently to the smaller Communist nation of Czechoslovakia. Yes, it is true that the flag of free China was on a table in the Parliamentary Dining Room tonight. The Democratic Labor Party senators invited the Ambassador of free China and his wife to dinner. We will never desert our friends, lt has never been our role to do this. They have been our friends and we have had a trade balance with them over the last 5 years which far exceeds any possibilities that we may have in the future with the Chinese colossus on the mainland. If honourable senators do not believe me they should believe Professor Arndt, a former member of the Australian Labor Party, who said that Communist China might want to buy but does not have the international funds to pay. He would know more than I would on this question. 
We regret that Israel was one of those countries which, perhaps was prompted by the same hopes as were expressed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate tonight that mainland China would desert the policies that she has practised towards her neighbours up to date, would accept the responsibility of being a member of the family of nations and would not use its position against the democratic world but would come more closely towards a democratic way of life. But this is not the announced intention of any of the Communist countries, lt is not I who say that that country will misuse its new position. It is they who say that one must use these organisations for the destruction of the vile capitalism that exists in this and other countries. 
What was the other inference that my statesman friend,  Senator Byrne,  drew from the admission  of  mainland China to the United Nations? He faced the fact that the immediate reaction in the United States of America was to return to a policy of isolationism.  Senator Cotton  should remember that whatever presidents may say. countries change presidents and presidents change their minds and policies. I am no historical genius but I see every indication of a return by the United States to the isolationism that has been her attitude for most of her history. I do not criticise her for it. I respect and admire her isolationsim which may have not been in the best interests, perhaps, of us and may noi perhaps be in our best interests in the future. But it is bad- 
Has my time expired? 
No, I do not suggest we should do that. You cannot hold back this sort of progress. I am not an expert in the field, but I would say that many of those substances that have replaced silk in demand are superior to silk for the uses nf mankind. Of course, these substances were produced by synthetic and chemical methods when production by silkworms was an uneconomic proposition. I hope the sheep will never become a silkworm and vanish into obscurity. Unless we are realists we will ignore these challenges. I feel that in this discussion one of the challenges is being ignored. The Bill, of course, fixes a matter that has been discussed  already, and indeed there have been indications of approval, even during the Budget session, of the Government's attempts to provide some assistance for the industry over a restricted period. The Bill operates for only 12 months. It is not suggested at this point of time that there is any definite plan - indeed, there is hope that it may not have to be continued beyond that point of time. This type of assistance to an industry must in itself be limited in terms of time or ultimately it can become a means of the gradual destruction of an industry. 
I want to refer specifically to a question I asked in this chamber only recently regarding the enormous increase in the use of acrylic tow and fibres of that nature in this country, which has a population of only 13 million people. My question to the Minister was for the purpose of establishing why this substance was being admitted into Australia from Japan and the United States of America duty free when the United States imposed a 25£c duty, T think it is, on every pound of our wool going into the United States. The reply which I received from the Minister stated that of course there was no duty on this acrylic tow because the Tariff Board had looked at the case and nobody had asked that a duty be imposed. If the Government is going to allow the salvation at least of our own internal consumption market for wool to rest in the hands of some other people they will go to the Tariff Board and ask for tariff protection. Even if the Government itself is well aware of the necessity of it, it will not take the initiative. Is it frightened of the Tariff Board or that somebody may disapprove of the Government itself initiating protection for one of Our basic primary industries which is under tremendous stress? The answer that I received from the Minister confirmed the figures that had been supplied to me by a very small knitting factory in Melbourne, representatives of which abhorred the fact that their use of wool had been reduced by about 80 per cent. That factory is now using about 20 per cent wool whereas it would prefer to use, as it once did, 100 per cent wool. However, if it used 100 per cent wool it would be unable to compete with others who are able to use the acrylic tow which has been imported into Australia free of duty. 
I wish to reiterate some of the figures supplied by the Government to substantiats the enormous increase that is taking place in the use of this type of fibre. In answering my question the Minister said: 
Imports of acrylic tow and staple have increased from about 2.3 million lb in 1961-62, the first year for which official statistics are available, to about 14.6 million lb in 1970-71. 
That increase from 2 million lb to 14 million lb was in a period of about 10 years. Acrylic yarns which are manufactured and brought into Australia formerly attracted a duty of 40 per cent, but because the raw material - the acrylic tow - was being allowed into the countryfree of duty the rate of duty was reduced from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. It is interesting to note that in the past not a great deal of acrylic yarn was imported. Imports of wholly man-made yarn, predominantly of acrylic fibre, rose from about 0.23 million lb in 1969-70 to 2.27 million lb in 1970-71. So in only one year, from a fraction of 1 million lb imports rose by 2 million lb. But, as 1 mentioned, the Government has reduced the import duty on this yarn from 40 per cent to 20 per cent. The Minister said also in his answer: 
Local yarn spinners, however, supplied more than 82 per cent of the market acrylic yarn in 1970-71. 
I do not see how that helps our wool growers. The Minister continued: 
A proportion of local usage of this yarn  is  in carpet production where it competes against imported wool. 
So apparently we import acrylic yarn for the manufacture of carpels, but that is quite apart from the acrylic tow, the imports of which have risen to 14 million lb over a period of 10 years. I presume that this is a new product, as the Minister has suggested, and that this tremendous increase in imports over this short period is at a time when the product is in an experimental stage only. At this time we are not in a position to predict what its future will be in competition with the naturally produced fibre from the wool industry. 
I suggest that if the Government is playing for a 12-month time lapse with respect to deficiency payments under its wool price support scheme it will need more than pious talk about helping the wool industry if, at the end of that period, it is to avoid being faced with the inevitable prospect of a continuation of the scheme. 1 should like to see the Government initiate action to search out every possible avenue, at least in our internal markets over which we have control, to increase the demand for the Australian grown product which is competing with the chemically produced product which is imported from, among other countries, the United States of America. I remind the Senate that already we have an adverse balance of trade with the United States. 
But, having said that, I propose next to refer to other problems facing the industry. Some of these have been mentioned before because they are associated with other problems confronting us in Australia. Among those problems are the difficulties associated with the deficiency of State and local government finances and the enormous additional costs that are added to the cost of producing wool because of the high interest rates that are applicable, particularly to farmers who have to borrow to maintain their way of life until they receive payment for their clip. Interest payments have reached tremendous proportions which were almost unheard of previously in economic history either in Australia or anywhere else. The average overdraft rate of interest is about 8 per cent. The Government adopts a purist economic theory and claims that a high interest rate in some measure is a control on the inflation that is bounding along, despite high interest rates and encouraged by the inflow of overseas capital that is being encouraged to come into Australia - a politically stable country which is offering high interest rates on money that is invested. 
Will the Government, within the 12- month period that it is attempting to buy through this programme of assistance to wool growers, give attention to some of these things, even in a general sense, at the same time pursuing the idea of controlling the inflation that continues despite the high interest rates. The Government claims that the inflation is not in any way aggravated by the addition to costs which flows from high interest rates. But, of course, increased interest charges add to prices in the same way as increased wages add to prices, and in some cases a higher interest rate is a greater embarrassment to a production or industrial company than are the wages paid to the people who are producing the goods. This is especially so when interest rates reach the level that they have been allowed to attain in Australia. If the Government will not do anything about high interest rates, can it be persuaded to do something to improve the prospects of primary industries by pursuing the suggestions made by the Democratic Labor Party and introducing a rural finance corporation, backed by the Government, to alleviate the position in greater measure than has been achieved by the Government's pressure on the banking system of Australia? In this way loans could be made available to primary producers at rates of interest lower than those which are applicable to industry generally and the general public. 
The Government should examine the proposition to give complete assistance to primary producers who have always been high borrowers because sometimes, instead of having a weekly income, they have to wait for an annual cheque which at times can be delayed by a very slow market. Delays can be occasioned also by the need to withhold their product from sale while waiting for the market to adjust itself to a higher level which will enable the product to be sold at a price which affords them a reasonable return. 
The Democratic Labor Party does not support the amendments proposed by the Australian Labor Party. An examination of the amendments reveals that they do not in any way suggest to the Government a positive line of action, as I have endeavoured to do during my very brief speech. I have made very small suggestions only, but if the Government is bereft of ideas it may attend at the Democratic Labor Party room where we will be able to offer many more suggestions on how to assist primary producers. 
Debate interrupted. 
When the Senate adjourned last night  1  was reaching the conclusion of my remarks on this Bill.  I  was examining the amendment that had been proposed by the Opposition and 1 was indicating the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party towards that amendment.  I  said that we were not able to support it because of some of its clauses. We find clause 1 to be completely unacceptable as it proposes some form of means test, although the amendment is not very clear how such a means test could possibly be of practical application. What would be the position of a wool grower who is genuinely in need of emergency finance? Would he have to tremble on the brink of bankruptcy or would he be already bankrupt? ls it a good idea to wait until somebody is in a situation where he genuinely needs emergency finance before he is rescued from the predicament, into which many of the people in this industry would rapidly subside if it were not for the assistance that they will receive through the provisions of this Bill? 
Under this Bill deficiency payments will be made to growers if the price of wool falls below a certain level. The Democratic Labor Party does not think that the Senate should express an opinion on something which is completely illogical and impractical as well as being against the general principle of applying a means test. My mind was provoked on this issue by some of the comparisons which were made last night by  Senator Prowse  between the wags rates at present and the income received from or the price of wool. I would be unable to join him in pursuing that particular line of thought because if it is to be accepted as a reason for providing emergency assistance today one would have thought that the wage earners in the late 1940s and early 1950s would have been helped by the wool growers. Honourable senators are no doubt aware that in isolated cases wool prices went to about 240d per lb during that period. Indeed, for a considerable period of time the average price received for wool was well over 100d per lb. Of course, those were exceptional prices. But I do not think it is possible to make any real comparison over an extended period of time between the standard wage and the price which may be obtained by a primary producer for his product or a mineral industry for its product. The price obtained in those industries may have no relationship at all to the cost of production when they are prosperous; but we all know that once the price Obtained falls below the cost of production in a period of over-supply a dangerous situation exists. 
The Democratic Labor Party is not putting forward its proposition on that basis. But it is that which has prompted this Party to doubt the merit of paragraph (2) of the Opposition's amendment. An excellent example in this regard is the sugar industry in Queensland. In that industry there is a statutory marketing authority which has specific powers. If the Senate were to express the opinion that there should be complementary legislation to establish a single statutory marketing authority to acquire, appraise and market the entire wool clip it would mean that that authority would have to be armed with statutory powers to limit production and so on, especially if it were made responsible for the absorption of the entire crop, as happens in the sugar industry in Queensland. The industry itself may eventually get around to accepting this proposition in some form, but the Democratic Labor Party feels that it is premature at this point of time for the Senate to express an opinion along those lines without having more detail at its disposal than what is contained in the amendment. Because it sees no virtue in the amendment itself and because it is trying to assist the Government ultimately to reconstruct the industry the Democratic Labor Party has evolved a proposition which will be put forward by one of my colleagues at an appropriate time in the debate, It will be along the lines J have already suggested in my contribution to the debate. That proposition will seek an expression of opinion by the Senate for the establishment of a properly constituted financial authority which will bc able to assist not only the wool industry but also the other primary industries which seem to be experiencing great difficulty at present. I foreshadow that at the appropriate time my colleague,  Senator Kane,  will move this amendment to the motion that the Bill be now read a second time: 
Al end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that emergency and on-going financial assistance to wool growers and other primary producers adversely affected by the grave recession in the rural industries  should  be made available through a special finance authority providing finance on long term and at discounted interest rates with interest and redemption free periods and providing "moratorium" protection to existing borrowers, such authority to bc  approporiately  structured in capital and to bc created to operate immediately'. 
That proposition is in conformity with the opinion I have already expressed that many of the wool growers ultimately will need to be given the opportunity to diversify their type of production, which will probably require emergency capital and loans and may even require a moratorium on current debts to enable them to reestablish new forms of production or, if necessary, quit primary industry itself and became rehabilitated in some other form of activity which will enable them to play their part in the Australian economy. I believe that everybody in this chamber supports the proposition which has been put forward by the Government as a temporary measure and that the Bill itself will be passed. But I hope that the Senate will be wise enough at the appropriate occasion to express its opinion on some of the constructive things which will have to be done if this industry is ultimately to be placed back on its proper footing. 
He has joined a new party since then and gets better advice. 
1 think this is an opportune time in the debate to remind honourable senators of what we are actually discussing and to compliment them on their approach to this question. It was brought up, as  Senator Jessop  said, by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. We are debating this subject as Australians interested in Australian affairs and Australia's future, not as members of any political party. The matter of urgency that we are discussing relates to the following: 
The growing concern in Australia regarding the alienation of the beneficial ownership of Australian resources to non-Australian interests. 
The level of beneficial ownership and control by non-Australian interests in public companies and corporations. 
The best method of reconciling the attraction of overseas capital for Australian development with the retention of Australian ownership and control. 
The best method of mobilising available Australian private capital resources and attracting its commitment to national development whether by operation of Income Tax, Company Tax or otherwise. 
Clearly this is a  matter  which we should discuss constructively in the interests of Australia, Let me remind honourable senators, particularly those whose history in the Labor Party is not as long as they would like it to be, that so far as overseas investment in Australia is concerned the Labor Party is the Party that gave the greatest initiative to attract overseas capital to this country. There is no harm in that and there is nothing wrong with that unless, as is suggested in the matters we are discussing, it gets out of hand and becomes excessive. I well remember the late Ben Chifley opening the first project of Genera] Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd in this country. The Labor Party, under the late John Curtin and the late Ben Chifley, went to great pains to attract overseas capital for that project. Until that time Australians had said that it was impossible to establish such a project in the type of economy that Australia then had. 
Do not let us throw darts at one another. Do not let us suggest that the idea of overseas capital in itself is evil or wrong, or that the idea is the exclusive property of one side of the chamber or the other because that is not factual in Australia's history. There is nothing in the subject we are discussing to suggest that overseas capital in itself is wrong or that it should not be encouraged up to a point. What is suggested, in the interests of Australia, is that there are signs in our economy, on our share markets and in general economic activity, that over-investment of overseas capital in specific industries is reaching a point dangerous to the solidarity and the future wellbeing of Australia. That is all that we are discussing. If we discuss this subject on that basis I think we can do something very constructive for our country. 
I agree with the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  who, properly, put before the Senate figures relating to the percentage of overseas capital coming into Australia. He suggested that 12 per cent of our total investment came from overseas. However it would be unwise to dismiss this matter on that sheer statistic as being all that was involved. What we have to discover - this could be done by a future Senate select committee - is how much of that 12 per cent is involved in specific industries in  order to  gain  control  of them. Let us remember that in the economies of all countries most investment is carried out in small companies in spite of what people may think. I think it has been proved that in the United States alone the economy is based on enterprises that employ fewer than 10 people in the main. Actually the big companies are the exception rather than the rule. What we have to be careful 
One indication of this today is an industry with which I had a very personal association because I worked in it as a tradesman for many years. I refer to the shoe manufacturing industry in Australia, an industry in which a quarter of a century ago you could not have found an overseas company engaged. I refer to the headline in the financial pages of today's Melbourne Age': 'Shoemaker's square feet turned into assets'. Beneath that heading, is a story about one of the oldest shoe manufacturing companies in Australia by the name of Bedggood and Co. which owns premises adjacent to the Melbourne Cricket Ground. At one time the original cottage occupied by the Governors of Victoria was right next door to the factory. Some 2 or 3 years ago that factory was taken over by a British company which bought out the family interests of Bedggood Pty Ltd which had been on that site for 100 years. That British company also bought several other shoe manufacturing companies. Now it has decided to sei] out with a view to using the sites of the factories for commercial enterprise, for the construction of huge blocks of offices or fiats. It is suggested that the site of the former Bedggood factory is now worth $2m. 
That is not the only shoe factory that has been taken over by overseas industry. Ivor Trescowthick, manufacturer of one of the best men's shoes in Australia - Julius Marlow - was taken over some years ago by overseas interests which incorporated not only that organisation but Joyce and Howes Pty Ltd, which had purchased the name of Marshall shoes which older members of the Senate would know was a household name in shoe manufacturing. This has happened in an industry which is highly protected by tariffs from overseas competition because of its very high labour content. High labour charges make shoes very expensive to produce. More recently that same company bought out Raoul Merton Pty Ltd. Those companies now have  in Australia 
I think it wise that we should look at some of the figures issued by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics on this question. Looking at the figures issued by the Bureau relating to the annua) inflow of private overseas investment in companies in Australia, and the investment income payable overseas by companies in Australia - that is the dividends that flow out of this country as a result of overseas investment - we find some remarkable statistics for the 10-year period from I960 to 1970. We find that outflowing profits, and dividends now amount to $633m whereas 10 years ago they amounted to $239m. That is a very considerable increase, one about which we should know more in relation to the future of Australian industries. I am not at any stage suggesting that overseas capital is no longer necessary or desirable, but too high a concentration of it in specific industries allowing overseas control may well mean that Australian industries are being run in the interests of overseas companies. 
I take as an example activities in the mining field. An original investment may be in respect of the development of a capital asset that the company owns in another country. It could well be uranium in Canada. That company could buy a controlling interest in uranium mines in Australia not for the purpose of developing the Australian mineral resources but for the purpose of subjugating them so that those resources will not pose a threat to the market enjoyed by the company already existing in Canada. Indeed, evidence is available lo show that this sort of thing is actually going on. If it is going on, we should know about it. If we are Australians at heart with Australia's interests in mind, and if we in this Parliament are the only 
1971 are some of the means of raising portion of the revenue which will be spent through the Budget in the current financial year. We were among those who thought that sufficient was not done for the people of this country in some specific avenues with respect to social services. 
Therefore, we consider that at this time it would be improper for us to assert ourselves as a bloc and to vote against this revenue being raised in the manner which the Government thinks to be the appropriate one for the purposes of meeting Budget commitments. As I have stated, we believe that some Budget provisions at least were insufficient. 
We can be assured that, if there are anomalies with respect to the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) - there inevitably will be anomalies - some attempt is made to equate the rate of taxation to the rate of income. Indeed, in the broad general sense, this is by far the fairest way of taxing the community to meet the commitments of the community by collecting revenue to meet the expenditure that goes with government and particularly with the social service commitments with respect to which we feel the Government, in the interests of the whole community, should enter into. Whilst the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 3) may contain some small anomalies, they in no way can measure up to the anomalies that exist in other tax structures and particularly the indirect way of raising taxes by imposing a broad general rate of tax such as sales tax on commodities that are purchased by the people in general. Such taxing methods always operate much more harshly against the family man. They affect particularly larger sized families because those families have more commitments to meet. Probably they spend the whole of their income. In any case a far greater percentage of their income is absorbed by indirect taxation than is taken by direct taxation levy under an Income Tax Assessment Bill in which allowances are made for the commitments of the individual. 
For these reasons, the Australian Democratic Labor Party does not support the amendment which seeks the withdrawal and redrafting of the Income Tax Bill 1971, If this amendment were carried it would hold up the source of revenue from which money has already been spent in many fields including those that I have mentioned. No doubt we agree that the Bill contains some anomalies. Anomalies always exist in an income tax structure. But we do not think that these anomalies are of sufficient importance at this time for us to obstruct the Government in the performance of its proper functions including the raising of revenue to meet commitments although we believe that the Government's measures are insufficient to meet the requirements of those in the community who are deprived of certain needs. We support the Bill. 
The Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill (No. 2) 1971 which is before us has a specific purpose. It probably conies at a very vital lime in the history of Qantas Airways Ltd, Australia's international airline, because this is a time of great challenge in the industry. Every Australian can be proud of the record of Qantas. It was not the first commercial airline - I think KLM had that distinction - but it was certainly the first overseas airline conducted, in the world. It stands as a tremendous monument to Australian initiative, courage and financial resourcefulness that a country with a population as small as ours could have played such an important role in the establishment of a major overseas airline, one which still ranks in the first dozen in the world. 
This measure is necessary because any overseas airline operating on long haulage flights must continually improve its air fleet so as to include the latest planes capable of carrying passengers profitably. This Bill will enable Qantas to fulfil its commitment already entered into to buy aircraft. This is a very sensitive period for international airlines and at such a time it would not be good for either Australia or Qantas to suggest holding up this measure. I have in mind not only the lapse of time through failure to purchase now but also the damage to the image of Qantas which would result from entering into a commitment to buy aircraft and then being unable to fulfil the contract. That could have very serious repercussions not only for Qantas but also for everybody else engaged in our aviation industry. It would put in jeopardy the part that Qantas plays in our commercial and defence structure, and it does play a part in both. 
The amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party has been moved in somewhat more moderate terms than had been suggested. It carries no provision whatever to delay the legislation. We must consider the proposal before the Senate and not a proposal that was to some extent foreshadowed in the corridors. The activities of Qantas must be examined in determining whether we should approve the setting up of a select committee of the Senate or a joint committee of both Houses to explore the operations of Qantas, to determine whether failure has occurred, and if so, where. I suggest that after examining the commercial activities of Qantas the conclusion must be reached that there is no justification for dissatisfaction with or criticism of its management. Qantas competes in a tremendously difficult field under really loaded circumstances. 
One of the circumstances loaded against Qantas is that the aircraft it uses always have to be purchased from another country. This means that Qantas must carry a huge quantity of spares while competing with airlines based in countries from which Qantas purchases the spares. Those overseas airlines do not have the same need to carry a huge range of spares and the accompanying financial obligation. That is a very important factor in the aviation industry because of the costs involved and the amount of capital that must lay idle in order to provide an adequate supply of spares. Not all the spares purchased may be used, but in running an airline the management must be ready for any eventuality. Millions of dollars have had to lie idle over the years and be financed by the company in order to remain in active competition with airlines not faced with that problem. That is one of the factors loaded against the operation of a successful international airline from a country such as Australia. 
One of the factors affecting the conduct of a commercial airline in any small country is the revenue obtained in international currency. The inflow of such currency into the economy of a small nation is very important when viewed against the need to maintain for defence purposes airfields, aircraft and equipment. Many smaller countries, having that aspect in mind, are prepared to run their international airlines at a heavy loss. Indeed, they are forced to do so. 
I am wondering whether Qantas has been treated with complete fairness over the years. It has always been able to show a profit on its operations. Whether the profit it has shown is in proportion to the enormous financial investment is a question involving the need for more research than I am able to do. Would a private company in its entirety have been prepared to carry on with the capital invested in Qantas while producing comparable profits? To answer that question requires a great deal of research and to some extent it would be a useless exercise. In any event, in all but one of the last  10  years Qantas has been able to show a profit. The exception was in  1966-67,  when a small loss resulted. In that year Qantas had difficult and specific industrial problems. In an operation the size of that conducted by Qantas it would be a miracle if industrial trouble did not arise. I am certain that my friends in the Australian Labor Party would agree with that. 
We always support the right to strike because we recognise that an industrial situation can develop in which the employees have no recourse to other methods. In  1966-67  Qantas showed a loss of $ 1.23m after encountering extreme industrial problems. Those problems can be understood, but even so Qantas seems to have observed its general obligation to its employees. In the last  10  years in round figures, Qantas has doubled the numbers of its staff. In that period the gross salaries and wages of its staff have increased  3i  times. That seems to indicate that in a broad and general sense the employees are today much better off than they were  10  years ago. Qantas therefore seems to have reasonably met its obligation in generally expanding over the years. Its employees do not seem to have fallen behind because, although their numbers have doubled in the last  10  years, their gross salaries and wages have increased 3i times. In the course of running a very big organisation industrial problems must arise. Qantas has overcome these problems in the past. Justice has to be done to all parties. People are entitled to use pressures to make industrial gains for themselves. 
We of the Democratic Labor Party join in the criticism of the Government for its lack of strength in preserving Australia's aircraft industry in general. We have often spoken on this subject and reiterate our philosophy that we do not think Australia has any choice but to attempt to preserve its aircraft industry. Irrespective of losses incurred, all aspects of the use of aircraft in Australia have to be co-ordinated if the industry is to be maintained. There can be no qualification about that. We charge the Government with neglecting to accept a full measure of responsibility to press onward and preserve the aircraft industry. Let us get some competitive element between our aircraft factories because without it they could lose the vigour which is so essential to the defence aspects of our country. 
Whether an inquiry into Qantas would sheet home responsibility for the coordination to its proper source, that is the Government, is another matter entirely. It is one about which we have very grave doubts indeed. It is not clear to us that an inquiry into Qantas by a select committee or a joint committee of both Houses of this Parliament would solve in any way the general problems of the aircraft industry. The inquiry could become submerged in the problems of Qantas. Those problems, as we all know, are new problems. From our investigations in the last week, Qantas appears to be making very positive efforts to overcome and control them. As it has successfully competed in the past we believe that before it is criticised it at least should be given the opportunity to go ahead in its own way to meet the new challenges that confront it with the introduction of new aircraft and because of the more highly competitive nature of the field in which it is competing. The field is becoming more highly competitive every day. Qantas should not be diverted into perhaps having to answer for the shortcomings of the organisation of the whole aircraft industry in this country. That clearly is not the obligation of Qantas. If Qantas has an obligation in this respect it is to co-operate with the Govern ment to the fullest extent possible, and there is no indication that Qantas has not always been prepared to do this. 
We may or may not be right in concluding from our inquiries - perhaps our conclusion is based on insufficient evidence and perhaps it is not - that there does not seem to be sufficient co-operation between all the aspects of this industry in this country. We do not attribute blame for this in any way at all to Qantas. It is true that at the moment there seems to be definite evidence suggesting that an inquiry is taking place with a view to amalgamating, at least in Victoria, the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories in order to make them more viable. We will await the outcome of that inquiry. 
I agree with the case made out by  Senator Bishop  for supporting our aircraft industry. We feel that the Government when purchasing commercial aircraft abroad, and particularly when purchasing military hardware, has not acted strongly enough in the past in demanding that this country should have the right to involve its own aircraft industry. It has not emphasised sufficiently to those nations from whom we purchase - they are people with whom we have friendly relations for the purposes of defence - the absolute necessity of Australia being commercially independent in conducting a viable aircraft industry as part of the defence of this country if the need should ever arise. Qantas seems to have made quite a reasonable contribution in this respect. We understand from evidence submitted to us that Qantas is servicing the most modern aircraft engines, not only for our own requirements but for other countries in the Indian Ocean region and the South Pacific area. This is a very good thing. It is maintaining a skilled aeronautical engineering staff and the necessary .equipment to engage in this type of activity. 
We note also that Qantas is investing in the smaller airlines of other countries such as the Condominium of the New Herbrides and Fiji. This is a good thing from the point of view of Australia's defence structure. Australia must gradually develop relations with these islands in the South Pacific area, small though they may be. Militarily they are almost dependent on Australia, as Australia could be dependent upon other countries in the event of an international conflict. They look to Australia for help as Australia is the most effective economic force in the geographic area for places like Fiji, the New Hebrides and Samoa. All those places are developing very small international airlines which we should assist in every possible way. Qantas is accepting its responsibility and is doing a very reasonable job in that regard. 
It has been said that the Parliament has not been made sufficiently aware of all the circumstances relating to Qantas and that there seems to be some secrecy about the situation, particularly about the current necessity that Qantas maintains it has to reduce staff in particular areas. I have watched the television reports and have read the newspaper reports about the reasons given by the Qantas management. On a commercial level they seem to be reasonably acceptable explanations of what is happening. One can well envisage that if an organisation begins to use aircraft such as the latest 747 there will be a lesser demand for highly trained technical staff. That seems to be one of the purposes of developing that particular type of aircraft. One may regret this lessening of demand for technical people. 
One is always a little apprehensive about the introduction of more modern techniques and more efficient machinery. Even in the clerical field we find that the clerks union is concerned about the introduction of too many computers and is wondering what may become of the staff that once was required. Somehow or other these questions have a habit of equating themselves in a modern prosperous community that is continually introducing new techniques, labour saving devices and bigger equipment for the purpose of carrying passengers or anything else at a cheaper rate in order to compete with others. These are very well known problems. I do not know that an investigation by a select committee of the 2 Houses of the Parliament would contribute very much on that score. 
I can well understand in the present circumstances that Qantas is endeavouring to establish itself in the charter field. Unquestionably that is what it is now doing. Proving or disproving that the Government or Qantas was slow in getting off the mark to enter this field will do no good at this point of time. The essential thing is this: Are there any doubts that Qantas is taking all effective steps possible to enter this field in its own right and is not selling off to others any opportunity that Australia may have of partaking in what can be a very successful commercial sideline to the scheduled air routes operated throughout the world? Should its participation in charter flights be more direct? We have given some attention to whether this endeavour can be incorporated into the defence structure of this country. We have noted that as far as Australia is concerned our scheduled air routes have to pass over the terrain of other countries and for this we have to get approval in the form of flight rights. Indonesia and West Irian consist of a chain of islands which almost sever the whole of the Australian continent from the more popular scheduled air stops of today. I refer to Manila, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Hong Kong. At one time we were close to being denied the right of air passage over Indonesia. 
The Australian Government, not necessarily Qantas, should be considering establishing and maintaining suitable staging places for aircraft operating in this part of the world, not so much for the scheduled air services that have a multiplicity of passenger requirements - that is people wanting to go to many different areas - but for charter flights. Today there is a concentrated passenger requirement in that most people are flying from point A to point B, and so far as Australia is concerned point B is usually the continent of Europe and Great Britain in particular. It seems to me that there could be good commercial prospects in Australia establishing in areas in the Indian Ocean which are under her control the necessary staging facilities for aircraft to refuel. In this way aircraft could take a more direct route to Europe, instead of having to pay the higher landing charges imposed in such places as, Singapore and Hong Kong, particularly on those occasions when few passengers require a stop-over in those places. Frequently people are in a hurry to get to Europe and Great Britain at the cheapest possible rate. 
I mention this matter because of the enormous prospect there would be for Australia to use general aviation facilities as part of her genera) defence structure, lt is quite obvious that Indian Ocean facilities would offer a very material defence advantage to Australia. That is the point the Democratic Labor Party wishes to make on this question. But there seems to be little co-ordination between the defence arm of the Government and Qantas on this question. The Democratic Labor Party wishes to stress to the Government as strongly as possible that the only possible way in which it can co-ordinate these things is to take an active interest in bringing together all facets of the Australian airways industry and the defence structure of this country. Of course, the aircraft industry itself also will have to co-ordinate its capacity to make contributions to the manufacture of parts, both as original equipment and spares. We know of the engineering problems involved in tailormaking parts for engines, but there does seem to be a potential for some original equipment to be manufactured in this country. Only the Government can initiate discussions on these matters and coordinate these activities. 
The initial construction or strengthening of airfields in various Australian possessions in the Indian Ocean should not be a commitment of Australia's commercial airline. It should be a defence commitment clearly entered into by this country. We should have these resources available to us for use whenever they are required. We should not have to create them under the pressure to which we might be subjected at a time when we were endeavouring to defend ' ourselves against aggression. We feel that this Bill highlights all these factors, although most of them are irrelevant to the provisions of the Bill itself. There is no doubt that if Qantas is to keep the status which it has always managed to maintain, in spite of certain difficulties, it will have to be able to purchase the most modern aircraft and purchase them immediately. That is why this Bill must go through, the Parliament. 
I have already mentioned the capacity of Qantas to show a profit in this highly competitive field. One factor which should not be overlooked and which adds to the mountainous problems of airlines such as Qantas is that fares for international air travel have not risen appreciately in the last 10 years. As the cost of everything else has increased - internal air fares have practically doubled in that period of. time - it has been an enormous accom;plishment on the part of the international airlines industry in general that air fares ' have varied very little. The Sydney to Lon- : don one-way fare stood at $627 in 1957. In 1970 it was $620, which represented a reduction of $7. That fare has been increased by  $32  in the last 12 months. It is now showing a slight increase over the 1957 figure. The stability in international air fares has been due to the enormous increase in international air traffic and the fact that the industry itself is now levelling off. If the volume of traffic were to continue to increase at the past rate a lot of the increased cost of providing facilities could be absorbed by the use of larger aircraft. But because of the increased expense in terms of wages and salaries as opposed to the necessary increase in capital expenditure to purchase aircraft one cannot foresee what the air fares will be in the future, lt is conceivable and indeed probable that the airlines will become more competitive and the fares will be lower still. If that happens it will bring international air travel within the reach of still more people and increase the volume of traffic. The ultimate result could be much more cheaper fares. 
Qantas stands on the threshold of a reorganisation not only of itself but also of the whole international airways industry. This will raise a lot of problems and Qantas is taking some steps to meet them. It has in the past always met problems and challenges quite successfully. T think it is too early to say that Qantas' attempts to meet the challenges of today will not succeed. I realise that they are raising apprehension in the minds of many of the people who are intimately concerned. I can understand that those employees of Qantas who were looking forward to security and permanence with the company and who have now received dismissal notices will be more than concerned - they will be devastated. But the same thing is happening thoughout the airways industry. Solutions have to be found to these problems.  1  think Qantas is endeavouring to find these solutions. 
I do not believe that we should at this stage be diverting our attention from the aircraft industry in general, particularly the imminent failure of the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation and the Government Aircraft Factories if something is not done to get them more business. They arc not failing because they cannot produce the most modern types of aircraft. They have been able to do so before. They have produced the most modern type of defence equipment. The Mirage aircaft produced in factories in Victoria were considered to be superior to the original prototypes brought out from France. Some of the ideas emanating from the production in Australia of that aircraft were ultimately incorporated in subsequent production in France. Our industries can do the job. They have done it before. But they have to receive assistance. Even though it may cost the taxpayers money, they will have to be assisted. These industries are essential to Australia. In my view an inquiry into the operations of Qantas will in no way at all contribute to the solution of the problems facing that airline.  1  propose to support the Bill at this point of time because 1 believe that it is the most practical proposition which has been put forward. I reject the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the Australian production of butter in 1970-71. 
What orders for butter were received by the Australian Dairy ProduceBoard in 1970-71, and were all orders filled; if not. which countries had their orders unfulfilled. 
What ordersfor butter and milk were received by private companies, were they met, and whattonnage was involved. 
Was milk powder imported from New Zealand or from any other country; if so,at what price. 
Were there imports of cheese in 1970-71; if so, from which countries, and at what price. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate, as the representative of the Prime Minister, aware that large surpluses of egg powder have accumulated with State egg boards? Does the Federal Government recognise the suitability of this product, being light in weight and of high protein and nutritional value, for shipment to assist in relieving the starvation of Pakistani refugees in India? Will the Government take positive steps to acquire portion of these surpluses as part of our assistance programme and arrange with the Indian Government for acceptance of this form of aid? If, as rumoured, this form of aid is not acceptable to India, will the Government explain the reasons to the Senate? 
The normal procedure when considering the supply of aid to another country in the form of a particular commodity is to seek the advice of the recipient country. Normally this is done at ambassadorial level to ascertain the urgent need of a country requiring aid. It might require clothing, medicine, food or a variety of commodities. In a consideration of additional aid to be furnished the first thing to be determined is whether the commodity referred to by the honourable senator is acceptable to the country concerned. I will have that aspect referred to the Prime Minister's Department and no doubt a response will be forthcoming. Supplementary information may be given as to the aid now being supplied, and that will be of interest to the Senate. The critical point is to determine the special need of a country. As we know, in Pakistan and India there was a threat of cholera, involving special requirements for medicine, clothing, blankets and goods of that nature.I will get the information sought by the honourable senator and make it available to the Senate. 
1 regret that it is necessary for me to speak in this debate. It was anticipated that the motion would be carried unanimously by the Senate without debate. 1 think it should have been. 
 Senator Keeffe  is interjecting. He has made a statement that the Democratic Labor Party, in introducing the motion played politics. In actual fact the Democratic Labor Party, by leave of the Senate, moved the motion and had not. until I rose to speak, spoken to it.  Senator Gair  merely placed before the Senate his motion because he thought that this was the appropriate time for the Parliament to express one thing and one thing only - its appreciation to :he men who had carried out in a very wonderful manner a responsibility on behalf of this country. Because most of them have returned home and because others are now returning home, it seemed ro be the appropriate time to express the appreciation of this country, without indulging in the politics in which all of us have indulged on many occasions. We have different points of view. We have put them and defended them. 1 think we have that right. But this is hardly the time or place to re-hash the opinions that we may have had about the degree of responsibility resting in the Government that may have caused these men about whom the motion speaks to do the job that they have done. 
Because of the trend that the debate has taken it is necessary to review what those men have done. Tn the main they were members of the permanent armed forces of this country who volunteered to serve in a military capacity wherever the elected government thought that it was necessary that they should serve. Others were young men who were conscripted into national service when the defence structure of this country was threatened, because of a lack of manpower, with being unable to remain a viable force. They, too, had a measure of choice. Many national servicemen who fought in the area believed that the cause for which they were fighting was right and just. I have no doubt that others did nol believe that. Men from both groups who have been there have expressed their opinions to me. The great majority accepted the role that they played there. They were proud of the contribution they made to try to preserve the democratic freedom of a small country. Others had doubts. It would not be life if that were not so. No-one more than I recognises that the men of our armed services are made up of average Australians who have different points of view. Whatever their points of view, they did the job that had to be done in a manner of which Australia can feel justly proud. 

 - Senator Georges's opinion may be that they should not have been sent. 
That may be the opinion of  Senator Keeffe  or others both inside and outside Parliament, That has nothing to do with the Parliament expressing its appreciation to the armed services for the job done. This is hardly the time, in fairness to those men, to seek to divide the responsible Parliament of this country by our using vicious words against each other. 1 would not try to respond to the attitude that  Senator Keeffe  adopted to members of this Party. We do .not agree with him politically. That is well known. I did not know him when I was in the Party to which he belongs - it was not my privilege - and I do not think I missed very much, but I do not wish to answer his arguments. If he desires to hold the opinions that he does of the Democratic Labor Party we concede to him in this democracy the right to do so. On an appropriate and proper occasion I would welcome the opportunity to discuss our opinions of each other and of each other's politics. But is this the proper occasion when we are speaking about men who gave their lives, about men who were prepared and who did day by day, hour by hour and moment by moment risk their lives, and about men who were injured and maimed? We are totally indebted to them. When we are talking about them is that the appropriate time for us, as fellow Australian, to divert the attention of the people of this nation to the fact that some thought it was right and some thought it was wrong that they should be there? I do not think it is the appropriate time. 
 Senator Georges  considers that any time is the right time for a dog fight. 
 I do not mind dog fights. I have been in many in my day. 1 can fight them on the footpaths, I can fight them on the streets. I suppose that ! have a reputation of being able to hold my own when my opponents drag me down into the sewers. But this is not the occasion for a clog fight. 1 do not propose to be drawn into one. The motion is a simple one. The Democratic Labor Party, on whose behalf I now speak, accepts no amendment to the proposition that it has placed before the Senate. We cannot agree with the early part of the amendment. The second part expresses an opinion that could well be dealt with on some other occasion - and on that occasion there may be the same unanimity among members of the Senate that 1 hope this motion will have when it is put to the vote. These are matters for another occasion. T do not think that when we express the appreciation of the Parliament we should go into the more contentious issues involved in the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy).  I believe that his good sense and the good sense which  I  know exists in many members of the Opposition should prevail. I believe that they should recognise that this is not the time to express whatever opinions they may hold on the justification or otherwise for the struggle that has taken place in Vietnam or on the reasons and necessities for. and the manner in which that struggle has taken place. 
Let us place on record the unanimous appreciation of the Senate for the sacrifices that these men who served Australia in Vietnam made, and at this point of time let us leave it at that. I would welcome the opportunity to engage in any kind of a dog fight on the other issues at. some other time. In discussing this motion, I refuse to discuss those issues. I have not discussed them nor have I alluded to them other than in advancing my argument to reject the amendment. That is the attitude of the Democratic Labor Party. If it is said to be political we will even accept that it is, for the purpose of gaining unanimity of the Senate. We are expressing in terms that only a parliament can express our appreciation of the men who gave all that they had to give because their country asked them to - and their country is represented by the Government. 
We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party would have preferred to discuss this proposition couched in a more worthwhile motion, but that is not our prerogative because a motion has been placed before us as a matter of urgency here tonight. The ambit of the motion, of course, allows for little concentration on some of the major problems of the economy because of the broad terms in which it has been cast. The motion refers to the promotion of the economy and the relief of unnecessary distress by an immediate increase in the unemployment benefit. Achieving the 3 ret part of the proposition may render the second part unnecessary. If we attempt to say that we are competent politicians at least we ought to tackle the first part of the proposition and promote the economy and therefore prevent action on the second part of it becoming necessary. There has been no major increase in the unemployment figures in this country at this time although there seem to be clear indications that this could happen if steps are not taken to prevent it. 
The matter of social services is attached to the motion. Everybody knows the points of view of the Democratic Labor Party and other parties in this House about this subject because we have discussed them throughout the Budget debate. Why social services should become an urgent .natter again a couple of weeks later, and why the subject is tied to the economy in general and to unemployment benefits, makes one wonder whether this matter has been brought before the Senate for the purpose of achieving something or for the purpose of again highlighting the divisions in the Labor Party. 
I must make reference to the two entirely contradictory statements I have heard the two Labor Party leaders make in the last 2 days when opening a debate on the same subject. I refer firstly to the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam.  He opened the Opposition's case in a debate on a visit abroad by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  by saying: 
I agree with the Prime Minister that it -vas valuable for Australia that he and so many senior Australian officials should have had  the  opportunity for talks with persons, and at places, and in times so close to these commanding events.  I  am not among those who criticise the Prime Minister either for his timing, his  itineray  cr his entourage. 
The Leader of the Opposition in this place,  Senator Murphy,  when introducing his proposition, said that it was the height of folly for the Prime Minister to leave this country at this time; that he should not have left the shores of Australia but should have stayed here in Canberra and devoted all his attention to the economy of the nation and thus prevented the development of the tragic events that  Senator Murphy  envisages. I think it would be to the benefit of everybody if there was a little more consultation between the two Leaders of the Opposition before wc &lt;* rc asked to debate particular propositions. If there was disunity on the simple question of whether the Prime Minister should or should not have gone abroad there could not be a good deal of unity on other propositions. We are not too certain whether this proposition we are debating would be supported by the Opposition in the other place. 
In an analysis of the economy of this nation by the Leader of the Opposition and in his criticism of the Government 1 would have expected to receive from him more worthwhile information to add to the criticisms already offered very strongly by honourable senators silting in this corner of the chamber about the management of our economy in the last few years in particular. I would like to have heard him concentrate more on what we consider is one of the major causes of economic problems. I refer to the unbridled way in which the Government has promoted the increase in the interest rate, lt was interesting to find that only 2 nights ago the Liberal Premier of Victoria put his finger on exactly the same cause. 1 agree with the Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Colton,  that people involved with economics certainly disagree with many of the causes of inflation and depressions. But at least, apparently, we have unanimity of economic thinking on the part of the Democratic Labor Party and one of the hardpressed Premiers because the Victorian Premier was honest enough to say that if the Government could get the interest rate back to 5 per cent - and it was the Government which deliberately promoted its increase beyond that point - many of the problems flowing from this aspect would be solved and this would make a major contribution to the alleviation of the other problems in the Australian economy today. I wholeheartedly agree with him and 1 think economic history agrees with him. Today's economic thinking and, I am sure, economic thinking in the future will prove that he is right, that a lot of our problems today arise from the fact that the Government has falsely tried to control an inflationary spiral in this country by the deliberate application of gradual increases in interest rates. 
By that 1 do not mean that there should be a sudden reversal of this particular programme and that a huge margin should be slashed off the interest rate overnight. This is one thing that economists, amateurs or professionals, politicians or others, would agree on that you cannot make two rapid changes of a major nature in any economy, without suffering severe repercussions that are of no use to anybody at all. We are pleased to see that the Government has begun to turn the wheel the other way so far as interest rates are concerned and is gradually reducing them. We commend that idea. We hope that as a major measure in the balancing of the Australian economy that procedure will be gradually followed until interest rates are reduced to a more reasonable figure so that they will cease to place pressure on the price levels as they have been doing in the last 3, 4 or 5 years. 
Many things have contributed to the economic problem of inflation that we have known up to date. Many of them are hidden and there is no one simple cure. One of the things that promotes an inflationary spiral is the application of the means test to pensions. Application of a means test forces the spending of a lifetime's savings by people who have been hard working and reasonably well to do. Such people are faced with a basic injustice with the approach of old age because they have priced themselves out of receiving the benefits that are available to others. Therefore they rapidly spend in a short period of time an accumulation of savings that represents the work of a lifetime. That contributes to inflation. Honourable senators can produce the best economists in the world if they like to argue with me on this point but that is a businessman's approach to inflation. Any sudden demand - and demand can be expressed only by money - that is pushed on to the market to buy the goods available is an inflationary pressure. 
If the means test were alleviated this would do more to assist in controlling inflation than a sudden infusion of increased purchasing power amongst other pensioners. I am not suggesting that I am against giving pensioners more purchasing power at this time; I am merely drawing the comparison to show that one course can be far more inflationary than the other. Alleviation of the means test would persuade many people to hold on to their savings rather than to rush in and spend them, often on unnecessary things, merely to get rid of them in order to be eligible, for the pension. Action along these lines would be a slightly deflationary' measure. We commend this sort of thinking to the Government and ask it to be positive on the question of inflation. 
Undoubtedly strikes, particularly industrially useless political strikes, contribute to inflation. Some people may favour strikes for industrial purposes, as I do. Some may favour them for political purposes, but I do not. But whatever the purposes of a strike and no matter who favours them or does not favour them, this has nothing to do with the fact that they are inflationary. Anything that causes a cessation of the flow of goods to the market to meet the money and credit that is there waiting to buy them causes price increases and a tendency to inflation. That is another aspect that everybody should recognise as factual. If people want strikes, particularly if they want unnecessary political strikes, if they want to close down the big cities of this country for one day moratoriums and thereby reduce the number of working days in a year, they have to be prepared to pay in terms of increased prices and an inflationary spiral. Nothing will change that, no words of mine or any high sounding phrases uttered by any honourable senators in this place. That is an economic fact of life. 
That does not concern me at all. It may concern  Senator Wheeldon  that there is no audience here. I imagine there are hundreds of thousands of people listening tonight to the radio and they will be able to judge what I say and what the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Murphy,  said on the question of inflation. I leave it to them to judge who is talking commonsense and who is indulging in a lot of political ballyhoo. If  Senator Wheeldon  has no worthwhile contribution, other than to draw my attention to the gallery,, let me say that galleries may concern members of the Labor Party but we of the Democratic Labor Party are here to do a job for- Australia. That is all we are concerned about doing at the moment. 
On the question of the alleviation of the suffering that is caused by unemployment, I wish to place before the Senate some figures on a comparison between the unemployment benefits and minimum wages paid in the last 10 years. I did a little research on this matter. I found that in 1960 the minimum wage, based on the figures for the 6 State capitals which give an average throughout Australia, was S27.60 a week. In 1971 the minimum wage, based on an average of the figures for the 8 capital cities in Australia, is $46.60 a week. Those figures show an increase of $19 a week in the minimum wage. One could suggest for the purposes of the argument that the minimum wage is supposed to keep a man, his wife and one child. In 1960 a married man with one child received $12.25 a week in unemployment benefits. In 1971 the figure has climbed to $19.50 a week. So the increase in unemployment benefits is $7:25 as opposed to the increase of $19 in the minimum wage. 
I suggest that there would not be anybody in this chamber who would not' say that a genuinely unemployed person who wants to work - noi a person who is permanently unemployable or deliberately unemployable because he is attending demonstrations half the time and is on employment relief - needs to receive about the minimum wage in order to keep his wife, his child and himself decently. In view of the fact that the minimum wage has increased by $19 a week and the unemployment benefits for a man, his wife and one child have increased by only $7.25 a week, we members of the Democratic Labor Party suggest that, if there i to be any increase at all - or even if there is not to be any increase - in the numbers of genuinely unemployed people who want to work and who are desirous of keeping themselves and not becoming a drain on the community, that increase of $7.25 a week over the last 10 years should be looked at very seriously by the Government. The present rate is not enough -o keep a family that finds itself in the situation of temporary unemployment on the standard on which we all would expect an honest, hard working family to be kept in this community. lt is obvious that the inflation, that has bedevilled our economy in the last 10 years has not been kind at all to the person who is genuinely unemployed for a period of time. It may be argued that this is one of the inflationary tendencies in the community and that the matter cannot be dealt with on the basis of a comparison between unemployment benefits and wages. It is a fact that today more than ever before there are 2 incomes going into many families because wives work. That in itself, without judging the rights or wrongs of whether wives should work - that is their own business - gives a family in which both the husband and the wife work much more money to spend and therefore much more money with which to contribute to an inflationary tendency. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The honourable senators time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Minister for' Civil Aviation. Has the Department of Civil Aviation negotiated an international . freight agreement setting freight rates on fresh fruit and vegetables as at Sydney Airport, to which appropriate inter-capital rates must be added for those shipping from other 
States? Was this agreement negotiated when Sydney Airport was the only international airport in Australia? Now that Tullamarine also is an international airport, has the Department considered the need to negotiate a new agreement which will allow Melbourne growers and merchants to compete on equal terms for the seasonal fresh Fruit and vegetables markets that exists in Singapore and Japan? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport: What steps, if any, does the Government propose to take to protect the Australian dried fruit industry from the disastrous effects of a 25 per cent increase in shipping freights threatened by the North American shipping conference? Will the Government insist that overseas shipping interests be required to present evidence under the Restrictive Trade Practices Act to support and obtain the approval of the relevant Minister before any increases are allowed to the present level of freight charges? 
I would like the Minister to explain to me the terminology relating to a prescribed year. Clause 9 of the Bill sets out that at the end of each prescribed year a statement shall be furnished to the Minister. I take it that the term 'prescribed year' covers the current year and the next 4 years. The Minister referred in his second reading speech to the fact that the Commonwealth will make cash grants of $2.75m a year payable for 30 years in respect of housing activities in each of the years 1971-72 to 1975-76. I cannot find the relevant provision in the Bill. Possibly it is in the original Act of 1928 which related to the financial agreement then arrived at, but it seems to me that to fix a specific amount of $2. 75m a year for 30 years is a fantastic business operation. I do not think anybody can gaze into a crystal ball and name the financial requirements for housing in 30 years time. To illustrate that point I ask the Minister to consider whether 30 years ago he would have entered into a contract to provide a specific amount each year for 30 years ahead for specfic projects. 
Although the statement in the Minister's speech is so clear and definite I cannot find in the Bill a specific provision relating to that statement, f would like to have that point made clear because I consider that any financial commitment entered into today for 30 years ahead on specific terms and costs would be rather fantastic. 
On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I shall speak first to the States Grants (Housing) Bill, leaving the amendment aside for the moment. Indeed, we have just received copies of the amendment and have not had time to give it full consideration. However, I must express my personal view that it would seem to be unlikely that we could accept it as it widens unnecessarily the application of this CommonwealthState Housing Agreement in a manner which may not be desirable in the interests even of the sections of the community mentioned in the amendment, particularly the low income earners whom the Bill was principally designed to assist. This Bill is a budgetary measure and therefore the general principles that are outlined in the Bill were before this chamber, in a sense, when we considered the Budget. The principal matter for consideration is whether the Commonwealth Government should in some way assist with this problem through an agreement with the States and give assistance to the .States which would allow them to administer the terms of the Agreement more freely than was possible under the previous Agreement. 
In his second reading speech the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  on behalf of the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  was good enough to review the old Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement which had stood for 10 years. Of course, he made it very clear that in that period the Commonwealth was remitting to the States I per cent interest, the total interest being based on the bond rate. This clearly illustrates what a confidence trick such an agreement can be when the Commonwealth quite deliberately interferes with interest rates and gradually forces them up. At the end of the 10-year agreement interest rates in this country had risen as a result of direct action by the Commonwealth by more than 2 per cent. Therefore the States were worse off by 1 per cent at the end of the agreement in spite of the 1 per cent advantage when the agreement was first formulated. 
This highlights a matter that I have been placing before this Senate consistently for the last 3 years. I refer to the basic injustices that flow from the proposition that inflation and other economic evils can be controlled by fiddling - particularly upwards - the general interest rales, allegedly in the interests of the economy and the people. Somebody somewhere along the line has to pay and pay beyond the capacity of his purse. The Government illustrates this by assisting some of those who have to pay the increased interest rates, by making special grants to the States for this purpose. 
I well recall the first house that it was my privilege to buy. It was an old weatherboard dwelling on which 1 was able to get a straight out bank overdraft loan from a private bank at 3£ per cent interest. I was able to obtain that loan to buy the rather risky asset of a weatherboard home although, of course, it had to be adequately insured so that the bank would have reasonably acceptable collateral. As that was possible at a time when housing was not in a short supply and as valuable as it is today, where is the common sense in paying double that rate of interest on a loan for the absolutely secure collateral of a dwelling house? Where is the justice of it? What has changed so intrinsically in credit that it is necessary to force interest rates up to 7 per cent? If it had been suggested, as 1 have illustrated previously, that the price of a suburban home would increase by the amount that people are now obliged to pay in interest, it would have been a national scandal, ft would have brought governments down all over the Commonwealth. If it had been suggested that the cost of taps, building materials and timber were to be increased by the amount of money that people now have to pay in increased interest it would have been a national scandal. People have to pay increased interest not only for the first year of the loan: they go on paying it over the whole 25 years of the loan. The increased liability when compared with the value of a house and the provision of the credit to buy such a secure asset is out of all proportion to what it should be. 
The Government has said that this is essential to control inflation, but it has not controlled inflation. Only in the last month has the Government at last listened to our voices crying in the wilderness and started to turn interest rates back. I hope that the Government will nol be deterred from turning interest rates back to a level that yields a reasonable and adequate return for capital lent on absolutely secure collateral, namely, a person's home. Today on finance for home building rates of interest are paid that shocked everybody about 15 years ago when it was learned that they were being paid on motor cars and refrigerators - assets that could disappear almost Overnight. To borrow more of the same type of money today with collateral even more secure - because people in this country are more prosperous today and can afford to buy homes - people must pay interest rates that have gone up through the ceiling. The Government has ensured that result. 
The Commonwealth has now negotiated another agreement with the States, and from the point of view of the States it is a better agreement than the old one. We, and I suppose the States, do not suggest that it is by any means perfect. It is far from perfect, but it is an improvement on the previous agreement and as such we accept it, We also accept the fact that (he States have seen fit to agree to it. I agree with  Senator Gietzelt  that the States have been under some compulsion. In negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States it is inevitable that the Stales will want more and that the Commonwealth wil say that that is all it is prepared to give. If the States do not accept the offer they may find themselves in a situation in which there is no agreement at all. That will persist for as long as we have a single taxing authority in the Commonwealth and the necessity to provide for people in the States the form of assistance covered by this Bill. 
If  Senator Webster  is suggesting that the States will reject it, I suppose that what he says may be true, but I am under the impression that the States are prepared to accept what is outlined in the Bill. I am fully aware that there is now no written agreement in the sense of the old agreement. Some of the reasons for the old agreement have, quite properly I think, disappeared. In my view, the Commonwealth quite properly has removed from this legislation the provision that i percentage of the amount made available had to be- used to provide housing for the returned servicemen of this nation. That is clearly a Commonwealth responsibility and should not have been part of past Commonwealth and State housing agreements. 
A good feature of this Bill is that the Commonwealth has removed the former provision relating to returned servicemen and is making itself clearly responsible in a field in which it ought to accept responsibility. I think all members of this Parliament would agree that housing assistance should be provided that is absolutely adequate for our returned servicemen. The Commonwealth should provide it directly and without requiring that 5 per cent of the money provided by agreement with the States to house low income earners should be allocated for housing ex-members of the defence forces. We have learned from the Minister's second reading speech that that provision has been deleted from the structure of this legislation. 1 turn now to the amendment proposed by the Opposition. It seems a little peculiar in the way it asks the Senate to express an opinion on the' Bill. I can well appreciate that the Senate could express an opinion that this legislation is not adequate, but the amendment then refers to meeting the special needs of low income earners. That is the purpose of the Bill. The amendment sets up sections relating . to pensioners, migrants, Aborigines, deserted wives, and similarly disadvantaged people. Some of the people in those sections may be low income earners, but not  necessarily so. Unless this is done for political purposes, I cannot understand why we should be asked to express an opinion which is quite irrelevant to this legislation. 
The Commonwealth has power to legislate for the assistance of Aborigines, lt was granted that power by a referendum of the people of the Commonwealth. 1 do not think we should clutter up every piece of social service legislation and insult the indigenous people of this country by placing them in a special category in every Bill authorising assistance. Some Aborigines do not need assistance and do not want it. I think the Commonwealth should adequately take care of our indigenous people as an entirely separate entity under the special powers granted to it by referendum. If some Aborigines are in the category of low income earners (hey should be considered on their merits and in no way associated with their racial background. 
I believe that if some Aborigines happen to be a little better off than the low income group  they  should not be included in a special category just because they are Aborigines. I do not think that is a very logical or Australian approach. Similar remarks could be addressed in respect of the other categories of persons mentioned in the proposed amendment. Some of the categories mentioned could well be loosely described as low income earners, but a deserted wife may be either in receipt of a low income or $500 a week alimony granted by a court judgment. Does the proposed amendment imply that because a woman is a deserted wife, even though she is reasonably well off, she is to be placed within special categories and not dealt with on the same basis as other people with family responsibilities who happen to be low income earners? 
I do not like the fundamental philosophy involved in placing people into special categories because of particular circumstances in their lives. The Commonwealth has the responsibility to look at the people of Australia and to say: 'We are out to assist the low income earners, particularly the family man. to get adequate housing'. That approach should cover everybody in Australia, including deserted wives or even deserted husbands. A deserted husband with four or five children could have much more serious and difficult financial problems than a deserted wife. The proposed amendment goes on to refer to similarly disadvantaged people. That brings in almost everybody, in view of the categories that are named. It really means that anybody at all with a disadvantage could, broadly speaking, be brought within the categories specially named. I do not think that the Senate should express such an opinion when dealing with a straight out matter of housing assistance for low income earners. Aborigines as such are as much a Commonwealth responsibility as are members of the armed Services, pensioners or migrants. 
The Commonwealth arranges for migrants to come to Australia, but it leaves the problem of their integration to the States. Although in most instances the States do not arrange for migrants to come here, when a migrant has become integrated in our community and has become a successful man within his Scale, he is then a success for the State and of benefit to the State, so why should he be required to pay more than anyone else towards the cost of educating his children? As the Commonwealth is the taxing authority which collects the money, it should finance the education of children throughout Australia by ensuring that the States have adequate money to enable them to provide educational facilities. Whether the children attend a State school or an independent school, whether they happen to have a particular racial background, to have been born in this country or to have come here as migrants, they are still Australian children and should be considered as such. In the same way, when we speak of housing in relation to this Bill we should regard all residents of the States as Australians and the Commonwealth should be providing assistance to ensure that adequate housing is provided for everyone. 
We should not start impregnating legislation of this type with endeavours to deal with special problems such as we have with the Aborigines. The special problem of Aborigines can be solved only as a separate problem.It will not be solved by patching up all sorts of legislation to provide special concessions or advantages in relation to housing or anything else. The housing of Aborigines should come under the Commonwealth's own authority and be accepted as a Commonwealth responsibility in line with the opinion expressed by referendum by the people of Australia when it was decided that these people who are disadvantaged because of their association with their old tribal customs and all that flows from them should be looked after adequately by the Commonwealth. The problem of Aborigines should not be introduced into special legislation relating to homes savings grants. 
I do not accept those portions of the Minister's second reading speech in which he tried to present the Commonwealth as a Santa Claus because in the past it has made cash grants, or perhaps in the future will do so. I can never understand this approach by the Commonwealth to the States. This attitude is one of the reasons, if not the root cause, for the Commonwealth and States failing to agree on financial matters over the years. Yet every Bill which is introduced in this place and which involves the payment of money to the States is brought in with an attitude of this kind. The Commonwealth says: "Look at what we are doing for the States.' But the States are made up of Australian people who provide money for the Commonwealth. They are the taxpayers. What the Commonwealth Parliament gives to the States is only what the taxpayers of Australia have contributed to the Commonwealth for the purpose of running Australia. Why is it necessary for the Commonwealth to pretend to be Santa Claus? That is what it is doing, as though it were doing something that is not expected of it. 
 In many cases he States have been right. The Commonwealth, which so begrudgingly acts as Santa Claus, pretends to be generous although it is giving to the States only half of what is needed. If the Commonwealth had provided an adequate amount to the States they would have gone broke and there would have been no need for the Commonwealth to wipe off the enormous unpaid burden plus interest which the States could not afford to pay. It has become necessary for the Commonwealth to wipe off this burden because it was recognised that the States could not pay. If that is not true we have not heard any facts in this place. That is a fact of life. I remind  Senator Buttfield  that it would be foolish to argue that the Commonwealth has been looking after the States adequately. The States, along with municipal authorities, have had to meet the burden of increased interest rates. The Commonwealth has been running about tickling itself and saying: 'We are dealing with inflation; we have put up interest rates. That will stop borrowing and it will stop spending.' But that does not work. 
High interest rates do not deter borrowing. Municipal councils cannot refuse to borrow merely because interest rates have risen from 5 per cent to 7 per cent. They cannot refuse to provide adequate facilities for their ratepayers because interest rates have increased. They are in a situation where they have to pay the higher rates. They have tried to meet this burden but have gone broke in doing so. It has been in trying to meet these rates of interest that they have gone broke, because the interest rates have got out of hand to such an extent that local authorities are now paying as much in interest on accrued debts as they used to pay for the whole of the municipal services that they provided for the community. This has been a tragedy for financial relationships of the various State governments and local government bodies. The States have come to the Commonwealth time and again and have tried to illustrate how interest rates have been creeping up and making their situation impossible. 
While the Commonwealth has greatly reduced the national debt and has become a creditor rather than a debtor it. has pretended to be generous to the States. It cannot be generous to the Stales. It can never give to the Stales more than it has received from the taxpayers. Whatever it gives to the States is  lu.e  taxpayers' own money. This being so, why do we not stop patting ourselves on the back when we return to the States the money that they need to finance their operations? In legislation such as this the Commonwealth Government tries to pretend that it is a wonderful thing thai it should be generous to the extent of giving the States a rebate on interest of I per cent, yet over a period of 10 years it has jacked up interest rates by more than 2 per cent. The Commonwealth pretends to be generous by providing money to the States at I per cent lower than the current bond rate. This is a ridiculous situation. The States went broke despite the fact that the Commonwealth was allegedly being generous to them. 
This Bill provides for a new procedure by which the Commonwealth will finance homes savings grants. It will enable the Commonwealth to make a direct grant to the Slates. At least this is a recognition that the old system was faulty. I do not know that grants to be provided under the legislation will be adequate; I doubt verymuch that they will be, particularly when housing for many people in the community has fallen into a very sorry state. Because of the Government's philosophy over the last 20 years we have arrived at a. situation in which the man who most needs assistance for housing is the family man with 3, 4, 5 or 6 children, rather than the man who has no family. Of course, one way to solve our housing problem would be to encourage the people of Australia to accept the philosophy of zero population growth. If that philosophy were accepted we would have no problem, but we would not have a nation either. J hope that the Commonwealth will recognise, particularly in relation to larger families, how much it is costing Commonwealth. State and municipal authorities to permit poor housing conditions, which in many cases are the only conditions available to larger families. 
The taxation structure in this country offers very little to the man with the larger family even if he does not pay very much in direct taxation. It is indirect taxation, particularly sales tax. that hampers the man with 5 or 6 children. It affects him every lime he walks into a shop to purchase the daily necessities for the children who will build a greater Australia. I believe it may be said that the Government now receives less from income tax than it receive from indirect systems of taxation. It pretends that because the family man is nol paying very much income tax it is providing him with a great concession. Yet he is the man who is building a greater Australia. Does the Commonwealth really believe that it is giving these people anything when it is stealing from them through every purchase they make taxes far in excess of what is paid by others in more advantageous circumstances? The family man has to meet this burden of indirect taxation in purchasing needs for his 5 or 6 children. Those are sidelights which I probably should not have introduced into the debate. I will discontinue that line of reasoning before I am called to order by the Chair. 
I shall conclude my remarks by saying that the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the measure which is before the Senate. It is necessary that the Commonwealth should do something to assist the States in the field of housing. The Democratic Labor Party accepts that this measure is necessary to give effect to the Government's Budget proposals. It is easy to say that more money should be expended by the Commonwealth in a particular field, but housing is one field in which the Democratic Labor Party is particularly concerned to ensure that the Commonwealth does more in the future. My Party feels that those people who are desirous of becoming home owners in their own right should be able to build adequate homes at rates of interest which will not impoverish them during the vital years in which they are trying to educate their children. At present many families are unable to give the little bit of extra assistance in the way of education that they would like to give to their children because they are groaning under the burden of the interest rate of 7 per cent or 8 per cent that they have lo pay on their housing loans. 
The interest rate on housing loans in this country never should have been allowed to rise beyond 4 per cent to 5 per cent, which is the average rate of interest in countries throughout the world in which there is ti stabilised banking and credit structure. Only in exceptional circumstances has it ever risen in those countries to the level of the rates which are being charged in Australia at present. The Democratic Labor Party is of the opinion that if the Government were lo attend to the evil which it introduced itself as a pseudo inflationary deterrent it would solve a lol of the problems of many of the people in this country who have the initiative and desire to meet their own housing needs and who but for the present economic circumstances would have the capacity to do so. The Government has destroyed their chances by allowing the credit structure of this country to go beyond the reasonable limits of the people who desire to use it for the fundamentally necessary purpose of providing housing for their children. If the amendment had been couched in terms of criticism along those lines, I believe that my Party would have found it much easier to support, but it is not happy with the terms in which the amendment is couched at present. Therefore, the Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill and oppose the amendment. 
The Homes Savings Grant Bill seeks to add to the exclusions under section 20 of the Homes Savings Grant Act a category of people who, as a result of the passage of the States Grants (Housing) Bill, will now be able to buy State housing commission homes. As these people are to be assisted to purchase homes by means of special Commonwealth grants it is not proposed to pay them the homes savings grant as well. That seems to be the only purpose of this Bill. 
I take the opportunity to bring to the attention of the Senate some of the general questions involved in the payment of a homes savings grant and to show how the benefit from which these people are now to be excluded is not quite the benefit it appears to be on paper. The homes savings grant is a grant of $500 from the Commonwealth to young people who have saved the amount prescribed under the legislation. One has to take into consideration the difference between an interest rate of 5 per cent and 7 per cent on a $10,000 loan to appreciate the argument I am about to put forward, lt should be remembered that very few of the young people who are today purchasing a home have a loan obligation of less than $10,000. Anyone who makes the calculation to which 1 have referred will find that the magnanimous gesture of the Commonwealth in granting a $500 homes savings grant is nullified in the first  2i  years of the repayment of a loan as a result of the added interest, burden that young people have to bear because of the Commonwealth Government's financial policy. The Commonwealth is by this grant only repairing some of the damage it has done to the prospects of young people who are purchasing their own homes, yet the Government boasts that it is making a tremendous contribution to their opportunities to purchase their own homes by giving them a grant for having saved a certain amount of money before entering into the purchase of a home. 
If additional exclusions from the grant are to be made it seems to me that the Commonwealth should produce figures to indicate precisely how much the assistance it is granting people under the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement in the purchase of State owned dwellings is over and above the homes savings grant. In that way we would be able lo judge the merit of the Commonwealth's contribution. The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  said in his second reading speech that benefit will be derived from this legislation. The whole of the Homes Savings Grant Act itself has become a confidence trick because of the interest rates that the young people have to pay. A homes savings grant is handed to them with one hand and taken away from them with another as a result of the added interest rates for which the Commonwealth itself accepts responsibility. Indeed it points to these rates with great pride as being the great saviour of the nation from inflation. The Commonwealth should make some explanation as to why the recipients of homes savings grants have these grants taken away from them in the first  2i  years of the payment of interest on their loans. It should also be remembered that these rates of interest have to be paid for 30 years. I admit that the amount involved will depreciate as the loan reduces, but the recipients of these homes savings grants have to pay an extra amount for a further  27i  years of the 30 years involved. Why is it necessary to add to the list of exclusions those people who are now purchasing State controlled homes? What is the added benefit to individuals of the subsidised interest rates to which they will no longer bc eligible but to which they would be eligible if they were not to be excluded as a result of the legislation now before the Senate? 1 would like some information on that aspect. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Supply upon notice: 
Is any proposition being investigated to amalgamate the Government Aircraft Factory with the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation? If so, what are the circumstances of the proposal, and will Parliament be fully informed before any commitments are entered into? 
I propose to confine my remarks to the motion which has been moved by leave by the Opposition and to indicate that we in the Australian Democratic Labor Party will not support at this time the establishment of a joint committee of both Houses or a committee of the Senate. I think the reasons would be obvious. The major parties are complaining that the Senate committee system is reaching the stage when it is overloading with work the representatives of the major parties which have so many more members with which to man committees. But the situation is becoming even more oppressive for smaller groups which, as organised political parties, should be represented. 
 We are. We adopted that suggestion long before the honourable senator made it and we are rapidly getting them, at the expense of his Party. 
 Give us a little more time and we will manage to take more, and do not be surprised when we do. Even if the honourable senator does not know the history of the Senate perfectly, he will know that at times his Party and even the parties represented in the present Government have been represented in this chamber by only one senator. That was under a different electoral system from the one we have today. So do not let us get on to that aspect of it. We were getting along well in a quite friendly way. 
I suggest that we conduct this discussion on immigration as Australians talking about the things that are of interest to Australia, not as members of a particular political party. I ask honourable senators to recognise that in a democracy a minority voice, as we hapen to be at this moment in the Senate, has placed upon it under the Senate committee system a much heavier burden than that which is imposed on the major parties. We must have a Leader, and even our Leader serves on committees, which is not the practice of the major parties. We cannot afford to do otherwise. Committee work places a tremendous burden on the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. The quantity of mail which members of my Party receive is almost as large as that which the Prime Minister receives. The reason is everybody who has a problem believes that remedial legislation cannot go through the Commonwealth Parliament if the Democratic Labor Party does not agree with it. 
I do not think it is. It is a part of the democratic process in this country that minority parties have their say. Any true democrat will acknowledge that. But our efforts are to no avail if we do not have the support of one of the major parties. That is democracy at work. There is nothing wrong with that. It is only when a Party, whether it happens to be a majority or minority party, always insists that its views be accepted that the concept of a dictatorship intrudes. But that is not the case with my Party.  Senator Georges  knows as well as anybody else that we have often in division sat alone on one side of the chamber. Are our views carried when the 2 major parties are against us? Of course they are not. They are rejected, as they rightly should be in a democracy. But I am getting away altogether from the subject of immigration. 
The Democratic Labor Party L very conscious of the burden of work which is being placed on its members by the committee system of the Senate. The type of inquiry proposed would take at least a couple of years. Many much more urgent matters with which a Senate committee could be involved would have to be put aside because of the inroads that an inquiry of this magnitude would make into the time available to honourable senators.  Senator Georges  said that if the size of committees were reduced that would enable them to operate more efficiently. It is all very well to put forward such a proposition. It would obviate the necessity for 2 or 3 Labor senators to serve on a committee but it would not make any difference to the representation of the Democratic Labor Party. We would still have to find one man to do the job. I do not think that such an inquiry would contribute as much to a solution of its problem as research by the Department of Immigration. After all, immigration is a matter which must be inevitably reflected in Government policy, irrespective of what we as Australians and members of the Parliament think and what advice we give to the Government. 
I doubt whether we should allow to creep into this discussion any suggestion that the economic problems of Australia today can be corrected in any worthwhile manner at all by interfering with the growth of this nation. It should be remembered that without immigration there would be no growth at all in Australia today. The birth rate is not high enough for this nation to grow at all without immigration.  I  think it is a mistake to think that any of the economic pressure* of all problems which exist today can be solved completely by restricting immigration. To do so is not to realise the magnitude of the economic problems which we have to face. We should not be cowardly and run away from the opportunity to grow and to develop simply because of the pressures and responsibilities inherent in so doing. A few weeks ago some of the members of the Opposition were lauding the statements of an alleged learned professor who had been brought to Australia from the United States of America to tell us we must join the zero population growth movement; that we should not be filth sinners and have more than 2 children to * family. If that philosophy were to be followed the problem T am illustrating that Australia has would become even more urgent and we would need to increase our migration intake just to retain the status quo in terms of our population. Many of us wrongly thought in the 1930s that Australians were losing their jobs because too many people from the United Kingdom were taking them from us. Anybody who does not realise the fallacy of that philosophy has not thought about it at all. That was not the reason why Australians lost their jobs then. Those people who think that the unemployment problem in this country today can be solved by stopping immigration should turn back the clock to what happened in the 1930s. Any businessman or trade union official who is worth his salt knows what would happen if the immigration programme were stopped entirely overnight. They know what a policy of completely stultifying the growth of this country would lead to. 
I have a lot of respect for the Department of Immigration I have a lot to do with it. Lots of people come to me with immigration problems. Some of those problems are very difficult. Many of the people who approach me with these problems are from countries from which it is difficult to obtain entry. Some have come here as students or tourists and want to stay in this country. I can understand the tremendous difficulty there would be in trying to run an immigration programme if too much looseness were permitted. 1 have found the Department to be reasonable in most of its decisions. I agree in the main with its philosophical approach to immigration. But I am disturbed about a couple of decisions it has made in the last month or two since the decision to cut back the rate of migration intake was taken. I will not argue about the decision of the Government to cut back the migration intake as I can do that at another time and in another place. But I do wish to raise the question of the refusal of assisted migrant passages from England to 2 individuals for what I consider to be the worst reasons possible. Cases of this nature did not seem to occur before the decision to cut back the immigration programme was taken. 
I do not propose to mention names because I do not have the permission of the persons concerned. However, I. will be happy to give them to the Minister afterwards. I have already referred these matters by way of letter for the attention of the Minister. But I am a little disturbed about the delay by the Government in taking action in a particular case. In late October 1 asked the Department to make a very speedy review of a case but I have heard no further word about it from theDepartment. This case related to a woman who migrated here with her 2 daughters after a broken marriage and who left a son at a very good school in England. She is reasonably well to do. The father no longer takes any interest in her or the children. The mother had a nervous breakdown, which 1 do not think would be unusual in view of the pressures on her as the result of having a broken marriage and of having to re-establish herself and her daughters in a new country.  Her  son in England was supposed to join her in Australia immediately he finished his schooling. She was under treatment for some time for her nervous disorder. She is now back at home and looking after her youngest daughter. The oldest daughter is now living away from her mother. 1 am not sure whether she married and. moved away or whether she wanted to look after herself. The son's schooling has now finished. He is now 17 years of age. Application was made for his assisted passage to Australia. That application was rejected because the mother had had a nervous breakdown. 1 can think of nothing more certain to cause her to have another nervous breakdown that the rejection of her application for an assisted passage for her only son. Because of financial circumstances it would be impossible for him to join her in any other way. I should have thought that there would have been no doubt about this application for an assisted passage being accepted. At least there should have been a very speedy review. of the case. 
Another decision which the Department made is more incomprehensible. It involves a very elderly woman who has been settled 
In Australia for a considerable period of time and who loves the country. This woman got married in India when she was much younger. I think that her husband happened to be of Portuguese extraction. They went back to England and their family was reared in England. Today she is a grandmother. One of the grand daughters has come to Australia under the assisted passage scheme and joined her. Now her 3 sons have decided that the whole family should come to Australia and settle in this new world with all its new opportunities. They have families of their own. We have rejected the application from the 3 sons because they were born in India, and for no other reason at all. There is no racial ground involved, because she is English and her husband was Portuguese. The application from the 3 sons was rejected because they were born in India, although they have lived ali their lives in England and they have responsible positions there. They have had offers of employment in Australia from the firms for which they work in England. We have rejected that family - the whole lot of them. 1 think that the grounds of rejection are patently not what, in my experience, has been the normal approach of our Department of Immigration. I am still awaiting an answer to a plea that the case should bc subject to a review to see why the accident of their birth in India and their parentage should in any way inhibit their right now that they are middle aged, to bring their families here under the same circumstances as any other British citizen. 
Those problems are personal and small. They  ure not  of the magnitude of the problems envisaged by  Senator Mulvihill  when he moved his motion. 1 -accept this opportunity to prod the Minister and the Department. Here are a couple of glaring cases which have not been handled perhaps efficiently in the interests of the human beings involved. They are vitally interested in whether they can come to this country. I air the problems at this time. 
I notice that in speaking to the motion  Senator Mulvihill  mentioned the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority and projects such as that. He, like  1,  well appreciates that without a migration policy we would never have built the Snowy Mountains project. I recognise the industrial problems which flow in these matters. I recognise that there can be a joint committee of both houses of the Federal Parliament and of all State parliaments which can confer for 10 years. But if there is a migration programme there will still be industrial and other problems which flow from that programme particularly where there are huge bands of workers employed on a project such as that controlled by the Snowy Mountains Authority. Everything will never be as we would like it with a migration programme. 
I made a plea to the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  that the Government consider for inclusion those members of the State police forces who have served the Commonwealth in areas that can be described only as areas of war, although they may have been engaged in war prevention in places like Cyprus. I did not hear the Minister reply and I wonder whether he overlooked this matter. 
I wish to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labour Party supports the Bill which is before the Senate. It is really a measure which seeks to give effect to a promise made by the Government in the Budget and, as such, my Party feelsthat it should receive the support of the Senate. But that does not mean, of course, that the Democratic Labour Party is, any more than anyone else, satisfied with everything the Government has sought to offer. Far be it from that. It is extremely doubtful whether the proposed increase of$1, 000 in the loan will be sufficient to cover the increased costs which have occurred in recent times. It could well be that a higher amount would be justified. But the Government did not promise a higher amount; if promised to take the loan to $9,000 and it introduced this measure with the specific purpose of giving effect to that promise. It is an increase and, as such, I have no doubt that it will be welcomed by those who are eligible for a war service loan. 
Many things can be said about the purpose of the original War Service Homes Act. I suppose one would have to go back to the day and age when this very worthwhile proposition was first given effect by way of legislation tounderstand the reasons behind it, the feelings of the people at that time and the actual purpose of it. But it is apparent from the title of the principal Act itself that the war service homes legislation is designed to cater for a specific section of the community, that is, those people who have served in a war, which would not apply to all members of the armed forces. It could well he the case that a very good argument could be made outthat some assistance should be made available to those people who have served in the defence forces of this country at any time. Whether they should be brought within the scope of an Act which was deliberately framed to help those people who have served directly in a war zone is a matter that could be contentious. Whether the loan should be available to members of the defence forces who have not served in a war zone or whether it is possible to isolate a war zone today in the exact terms that were employed when the Act was first given effect after the 1914-18 war is very doubtful. 
We appeal to the Government to give consideration to some of the more modern circumstances that exist today. We feel that one of the anomalies that exists today stems from the fact that the ideas of the world have changed and nations have agreed to form international organisations which are prepared to make available police forces to serve in countries that are likely  to  be concerned in a war. For instance, no consideration has been given to the members of the various Australian police forces who served in Cyprus. There were several casualties among the men who served there. Those men would go on virtually military patrols in the same way that Australian troops at war would go on patrols. 
The Returned Services League considered the eligibility of these men to join that organisation. The League decided unanimously that the qualifications of the men were such that they were eligible to be admitted. But they are not eligible for a war service loan. If the principle of the Act is that it should cover persons who have served in a war zone - it deliberately covers not only members of the fighting forces but also members of the medical and nursing forces as well - it should cover these people who have given service in a war zone at the behest of the Australian Government. They are not brought within the ambit of the Act. We appeal very strongly to the Government to look at this set of circumstances. We are not being in any way critical because this has not been done, but we are drawing the attention of the Government to the fact that if we are to move with, the times the Act should be amended to cover these men. The Act contains certain provisions which grant assistance to people who have served the nation in a war zone. That is the fundamental principle. We should at least bring within the scope of the Act all who have so served. 
If we wish, as the amendments of the Opposition propose, to give consideration to serving members of the permanent forces, perhaps there would be justification for a different Act which did  mt  go to the same lengths that this Act goes. We could discuss what constitutes war service. We must remember 2 things that happened in the 1939-45 war. We have to remember that this nation, to save itself, virtually had to arrive at a basis on which the whole nation was organised and was practically given defence service if not war service. We had a Civil Constructions Corps which was as regimented as members of the defence forces who did not leave Australia. 
To the same degree people in industries were regimented in the interests of the nation and were giving service in the defence of the country, though in the industrial field. They were not permitted, to leave employment, to change employment or to seek increased wages - to do any of the things that may have disrupted the whole defence structure of the nation. If we are to devise a plan to set up a defence forces assistance scheme for homebuilding purposes, should these people be included also? I think this question would have to be considered and answered. Certainly we would like to consider it in depth, but at present we are making no suggestions to the Government on the amendments because we feel that we should be debating the Bill that is before the Senate. 
We propose to support the Bill because we feel that it gives effect to the budgetary promises of the Government and, as such, should be passed speedily by the Senate. We draw the Government's attention to what we consider to be a particular anomaly in relation to those who served this country, in places such as Cyprus, as members of an international police force. They were practically on military service. I propose to outline very briefly our reasons for not contemplating at this stage the amendments that will be moved by the Opposition. Some could have quite a deal of merit. To save time it is not our intention to speak on the amendments at the Committee stage. I think I have already dealt with the first amendment to be moved and have stated our view on it. The first amendment seeks to add to those eligible for a loan serving members of the permanent forces. This is a war service Act. If it is broadened to include any serving member of the permanent forces, it may be that some attention should be given to people whom I mentioned earlier. We do not feel that this comes within the scope of the Bill. 
The second amendment seeks to increase the amount of the loan from $9,000 to $15,000. We see some dangers in this because the appropriation probably has made allowance only for a specific amount. To increase the loan that is available to each applicant could mean fewer loans, a long waiting period and much higher rates of interest on second mortgages for those who get a loan. I think it is recognised that the loan amounts to only a portion of what is required and that nearly all applicants need some form of subsidiary finance for at least a small proportion of the ultimate cost of the project. It is seldom that a home could be built merely with the initial loan. So the advantages of increasing the amount of the loan could be outweighed by the disadvantages. 
I am not particularly familiar with all the rules and regulations but I do know, from mixing with people who are eligible for a loan, that many have loans in addition to the war service loan. They have to pay very high rates of interest to get off the ground. If the experience of the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  has been different from mine, I have no doubt that he will explain it to us. That has been my experience. Many are forced to take subsidiary loans. We regret that. If the amount of the individual loan were to be increased to the extent suggested most eligible applicants who want their loan now would be caught up in a waiting time and would have to take out an unsecured mortgage on which they would have to pay exorbitant rates of interest. The advantage of getting a loan at an interest rate of 3J per cent would rapidly be lost. Therefore, we do feel that, however much we believe that a case can be advanced for increasing the amount beyond $9,000, this is not the time nor is this Bill by which to do it. 
The third amendment seeks to alter the status of the Minister in relation to the application of the Act. This has been Australian Labor Party policy on many similar issues. We have not agreed with it on those other issues, nor do we agree with it now. We feel that in an Act such as this ministerial discretion has an important part to play, and we wish to preserve it. We wish to go no further with the third and fourth amendments, because of the principle involved. We have made our stand very well known. We feel that the ministerial discretion should be retained in the Act. The fifth amendment is consequential upon the second amendment. Our objection to the fifth amendment is the same as our objection to the second amendment. 
The sixth amendment seeks to add after the word 'insane' the words 'or incapacitated'. There is a marked difference in people who are subject to stress. We admit that everybody is subject to stress for different reasons. We feel that where a person has become mentally affected there is a lack of capacity to make decisions. But in today's modern society when a person becomes incapacitated there is not necessarily a lack of capacity to continue with his obligations under the Act. Indeed, if it were a motor accident or an accident which involved workers compensation which caused the incapacity of the purchaser and he was not able to meet his commitments it could be that immediately the court case is settled he is in a very eligible position to meet his commitments for housing. Social services are available to people who are incapacitated for various reasons. But in the case of mental illness we see a difference. Therefore we are quite willing to preserve the Bill as it is and leave out the amendment relating to incapacitated people. As the theme of that amendment runs through the other amendments associated with it, we also reject them. We are in favour of the Bill as it stands. In the Committee stage we propose to vote against the amendments. 
 I wish to speak about the Bills that are before the Senate which are to make some provision to assist an industry that is getting into a very parlous condition because of circumstances beyond its control. I compliment the Government for bringing down legislation that will help it at this time. I think this indicates that there will be other legislation necessary to help many of our primary industries during a period of transition, particularly when the full effects of the changing pattern of European trade become felt in Australia. In the last 6 months I have received complaints from people engaged in this industry. The complaints have been mostly along the lines of the threat to it of increased shipping transport costs. I hope the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  will take note of this and that the 
Government will keep a very close eye on the international shipping interests that are tending to further embarrass industries of this type by huge increases in the cost of transport. 
The Bill is clear and straightforward and the Democratic Labor Party supports it. Three Bills are involved in giving effect to the ideas of the Government and the necessity to collect the levies to make this scheme possible. 
The Opposition proposes to move amendments during the Committee stage and I wish to refer to them now in order to prevent' any further waste of time then. We accept the Bills as they are. We believe that one of the amendments proposed could cause some hardship to some growers and aggravate the situation in which they find themselves. Another proposed amendment may make it very difficult to be able to launch a court case in order to ensure that those who are properly charged with the payment of levies pay them and do not escape their just dues, thereby placing a further burden on growers who play the game for the benefit of the industry as a whole. We note that the industry desires this type of legislation. 
The proposed amendments to which I have referred would not be in the interests of the growers although perhaps it would appear that they would alleviate some responsibility facing those who do not pay insofar as the Government would not bc able to proceed against them to recover money owing if the proceedings were not taken before 12 months have expired. One of two situations has to be considered in this respect. The first is that, by weak administration, a grower could be allowed to defeat the whole purpose of the legislation by not paying his dues. The second is a situation in which the Department sets out to prosecute within 12 months. I should not think that would be in the interests of the growers. If a period of 3 years is allowed I should think there are other ways in which defaulters could be persuaded to pay. If they are in real financial difficulty they would have more time in which to pay before legal action has to be taken or the debt is abandoned altogether. A period of 12 months is not much time for a grower who has had bad luck. If he were allowed 3 years he may have a sufficiently good run to enable him to pay his just debts. 
There would be a difficult administrative problem encountered with this legislation if it were altered to make the period 12 months instead of 3 years. If a grower avoided payment for 12 months he would be safe from prosecution. However, I do not think that is the real purpose of the amendment. I think it was designed to assist growers, not put them in a situation in which proper administration - and everyone would like to see this thing administered properly - would make them vulnerable to prosecution and the lack of proper administration would mean that it was very easy to escape responsibility. 
That is all I wish to say about the legislation. I do not wish to discuss the other matters that have been brought into the debate. There are plenty of opportunities in this place to discuss specifically the wine levy. As an independent observer here I have listened to  Senator Laucke  time and time again fighting against the policy of his own Party in respect to the wine excise. Individually we are often caught in that situation in politics, particularly in federal politics. My view of  Senator Laucke's  attitude in this Parliament is that he is not a man who is trying to do one thing in one place and another in another place.  His  actions have been those of an honourable senator genuinely interested in the situation in his State. Quite clearly he has fought even against the policy of his own Party. When all is said and done, all of us are bound to our parties, none more so perhaps than those of us on this side of the chamber, irrespective of our parties, who are in opposition to the Government. 1 do not join in any of the attacks on  Senator Laucke  whose voice has been heard on this question so often in this chamber. The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill before the Senate. 
The Democratic Labor Party will support this Bill and the subsequent Bill relating to New South Wales. I understand that they are being dealt with separately. We made our attitude clear on this matter earlier this year. At that time it was necessary for the fruit canning industry in Victoria to be rescued from a very desperate situation and a similar loan was granted to that State. We pointed out that the Commonwealth stood to lose nothing. It purported to be a benefactor but in fact was not. If there was any loss it would be borne by the State and not by the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth was in such a happy situation with the current rates of interest that it seemed to be a rather good business deal from its point of view. Having expressed that criticism at that time we do not wish to repeat it now because we recognise that the fundamental purpose of this Bill is to rescue the fruit canning industry in South Australia from its present plight. 
This industry will have to face even greater problems in the future. Already I have had representations from the industry in Victoria that clearly indicate that the pressure being applied, particularly by the banks, to prevent a full crop being grown has reached the stage where the growers are expected to reduce their production by 50 per cent in one season. The information that has been given to me indicates quite clearly that a reduction in production will be disastrous for the growers. If the growers could even out a decrease in production over a period of 3 years by reducing by, say, 20 per cent each year they would be in a better position to assist themselves by absorbing the shock that the industry will have to face. The growers do not deny that it is necessary to reduce productivity. They accept this. However, what is causing concern to the growers at this point of time is the suddenness of the move by the banking institutions, particularly the Reserve Bank of Australia, to endeavour to get the industry to reduce its output by 50 per cent in a period of one season. 
These institutions should realise that there should be a programme to assist those who are not fully engaged in the raising of crops such as pears and peaches for canning and those on farms operating on a small scale as a subsidiary to grazing or perhaps wool production. The Government should assist in developing a plan to get out of the industry, for a start, those people who are not wholly dependent on it. It is recognised that others will have to be taken out of the industry, the least efficient being the first to go. There will be a need for rehabilitation training to enable these people to exist in another industry. What these people are very sure of is that an export market will not develop which will be adequate to cope with the capacity of the industry to produce. 
If the Government takes cognisance of the statements I have made and looks to the future of the industry, particularly in Victoria where this industry is a far bigger proposition than that in South Australia, it may be that the Government by taking position action more quickly will be able to save itself from having to face up to a much more serious problem in late autumn or in the winter of next year when the full effects of the restrictions that have been placed on growers in Victoria this year will be felt. This Bill is an extension to South 
Australia of the action taken in Victoria. We will support the measure without amendment. 
 I move: 
After paragraph (b) add - 
That the Committee consider the establishment of a prices surveillance tribunal to achieve the aforementioned objectives'. 
We have heard some very interesting speeches on the subject matter contained in the motion. 1 cannot help but comment about the difference which seems to be creeping in between what people say here and what we have heard said in another place.  Senator Carrick  has told us a lot about many things. He has reduced costs to a simplification of being merely wages. We heard  Senator McAuliffe  read out a long list of big companies and their profits, but he made no reference to capital investment in those companies. In the interests of Australia a debate on prices or the economy cannot be run along the lines of those absurd simplifications. If  Senator McAuliffe  wished to carry through his list of companies perhaps he should have paid attention to the radio stations that are run by the Labor movement. Most of the capital invested in those stations has been written off long ago by way of depreciation. They do not reduce their charges to advertisers today so that they run on a nonprofit basis. The percentage of profits per capital invested, which no longer exists because it has been written off, probably exceeds anything made by any other company in Australia. As a former unionist let me say that unions are quite keen to make this evil thing called profits. We do not hear of the Australian Workers Union passing back to its membership the huge surplus of membership dues that it has collected over the years in excess of what has been required to run the union. The union further invested the surplus in other profit making ventures. 
I do not think anybody is contributing much in the interests of Australia when he speaks a lot of rubbish that has no economic background, when he suggests that wages are costs or when he refers to profits made by big companies without giving any of the relevant data that is necessary to apportion what  is  required to carry on a big company. Many things make up costs. There are wages, prices of raw materials and transport costs in which wages play a part.  As  I have said on many occasions in this chamber, there is the interest on the overdraft on the trucks or the machinery of the company which, in general, is manufacturing the articles. 
There is the cost of money. When  Senator Cotton  was speaking I interjected. I do not know whether he was being complimentary or whether he was endeavouring to belittle my efforts in some way, but he invited me to join his Party. 
I am glad that he now says that he was being complimentary. 1 asked for research to be carried out during the suspension of the sitting to see how often I had advised the Government on the stupidity of its economic policy of increasing interest rates to control inflation. ] warned the Government time and time again that ultimately it would increase prices by increasing costs and that deliberately forcing up interest rates in no way deters people from borrowing capital. In the time available I was able to carry out research covering only the last 2 years. On 7 occasions in 1970 during the debates on the Address-in-Reply and on Bills relating to war service homes, homes savings grants - this was before us on 2 occasions - Commonwealth-State financial relations, States receipts duty and consumer protection I had the effrontery to warn the Government that it was committing economic suicide by deliberately forcing up interest rates allegedly to control inflation. That was in 1970. In 1971 I found it necessary to step up my campaign against the Government on this matter. On not less than 9 different occasions in speeches in this chamber I again outlined the absurdity of the proposition, went into the economics of it and gave the Government the same advice. 
Ultimately 1 made some impression because at last, after 4 years of campaigning, the Government began to reverse the cycle when interest rates in this country had reached 8 per cent as a straight out overdraft rate. Indeed, the rates were much higher in the more risky forms of borrowing where there was some danger of losing money. This increases the cost of production. I give a final warning to the Government on this matter. On this day last week I was in Korea where they have enormous economic problems because of the tremendous development which has taken place in the 20 years since the armistice was signed. South Korea is a country still in a state of war. It has a tremendous economic problem and horrible inflation. It has gone along the line further than this Government is going. Its bond rate of interest now exceeds 20 per cent, and it still has not controlled inflation by gradually increasing interest rates. What will South Korea do if the rate goes any higher? I do not know whether the economy will stand the strain much longer. I am interested in South Korea. I hope, as this Government has found can be done eventually after listening to advice, that it can reverse the trend before this problem destroys the country. 
No country can carry those sorts of costs in its cost structure if it wishes to control inflation. In suggesting the amendment we say that the original motion in itself is too wide. It is wider in concept than we would have liked it to be. We have introduced the amendment with the idea of giving the motion some stable feature and something which can continue in the  spirit of the motion.  The motion does not in any way suggest price control. It merely suggests that the Standing Committee on Primary and Secondary Industry and Trade shall find out why prices are doing what they are doing, and why costs are increasing. 1 say that the debate we have had here tonight clearly indicates that we do need research, and that we do need a committee to go into this matter and to advise us on what is causing the problem. To date nobody who has participated in the debate has put his finger on any of the real issues. The Government itself, however, has suggested that wages are not the whole of costs but are certainly a very important part of costs. 
Yes, Colin Clark. The honourable senator does nol mention an economist who has been inclined to favour Government policy. If the honourable senator thinks that Colin Clark is an expert he will find that Colin Clark leans very heavily towards the philosophies and the economics which are espoused by the Australian Democratic Labor Party, lt is refreshing that the Australian Labor Party can overcome its prejudices in some form and realise that in our struggles in the interests of Australia we do have some very good ideas. We do not claim to know the lot. I especially want to deal with the mailer of industrial peace and wages because, without doubt, here is one of the causes of the present trend of increasing prices. These do not affect so much the people who receive the wage increases - I know that the Labor Party has a very justifiable interest in them - but they create tremendous problems for those on fixed incomes such as the superannuitants, the pensioners and those people in whose wellbeing Labor professes to have a profound interest. There is a conflict of interest in this matter because every time wages are increased without a resultant increase in productivity, the standard of those who are on fixed incomes is reduced. All the talk and sympathy in the world from the Labor Party will not alter that sei of circumstances. 
The late Ben Chifley warned the Labor movement of this country that it was not the wages which one received, it was what one was able to buy with them which set the standard of the working people. A mistake creeps in when honourable senators quote international figures, as  Senator Carrick  did in relation to Australian wage standards and prices. If we compare the Japanese wage structure with that in Australia, we find that Australia is far ahead because what does not appear in the Japanese wage structure is the fact that the Japanese also get their fares to and from work from their employer. They also receive the uniforms which they wear at work, and they are very good and tidy uniforms. They also have their housing provided by the employer. Their social services are paid, not out of the taxes which they pay but by the employer. Why come along and confuse the issue by trying to make comparisons between wages in one country and wages in another country? One does not define the standard of living unless one takes those wages and marries them to the cost of living in that country. I am not talking about what the tourists pay in the big cities but about what people pay for goods in the market place and for the other benefits which, in many countries, go alongside wages but which in this country, are foreign to our way of life. That, too, is a trap. It indicates the need for the motion. When people begin to assess living standards in this country they can pat themselves on the back because we in Australia are leading the world in many of these matters. 
In Australia it will be a struggle for the average working man to buy a colour television set at a price, as I read in the Press, which was estimated to be 51,000. But there are  8  colour television channels in Tokyo today and every Japanese worker can afford to buy a colour television set. To absorb the immense production which Japan has today in colour television sets - they could be considered a luxury item in this country - she may be not only selling them for export but also selling them to every possible person in Japan. So why all this talk? This brings me to the real question of wages, particularly in relation to the Government and why it should clearly see the necessity for the Committee to make the investigation suggested in this motion. What does the Government really know about helping to stabilise the economy by restraints, particularly in relation to the unjustifiable wage increases? 
At the moment the Government is sponsoring an amalgamation of 3 of the largest unions in the country. They will create a colossus. Today these amalgamated unions announced their intention of asking for further wage increases and improved conditions. This colossus will ignore its own organisa ion because now it has become big enough to do so. The Australian Council of Trade Unions will become redundant with the development of still more amalgamations and the creation of bigger unions. What purpose can the ACTU serve? The amalgamated unions have announced 'hat outside the arbitration system they intend to place pressure on the metal trades employers for the increases they are demanding. Recently, when unions in those industries asked for and received a 9 per cent wage increase outside  the arbitration system I did not hear anything from anybody on the Labor side or the Liberal side of this chamber. Labor did not say that 'he employers should not put up their prices in order to pay the 9 per cent increase in wages. That is precisely what the employers did. Because the unions' demands were being met, Labor was strangely silen*. The Government says that the unions must work through arbitration. What did it say or attempt to do about the situation? It came down with a proposition that the ideal was to take the unions back to the arbitration system and that it would permit, on a vote of the membership of the unions which was no more 'nan an average of 16 per cent of the membership, an amalgamation of those unions into an industrial colossus that will be the greatest threat to the stability of the economy of this nation that we have yet faced. 
The Government itself does not realise the threat that exists.  Senator Bishop  is right. Here is one man who hates the employers and another one who refers to all the big companies and tells us the profits they make. Now they interject on me and say that the employers agreed to the amalgamation. Of course they agreed to it. 
Because they are in industries (hat are highly protected by tariffs and they can increase their prices. Honourable senators on the Labor side and those on the Liberal side have not enough brains to realise what this is doing to the economy of this country and that they ought to be taking real precautions against it or doing something about it. They are silent because they are adopting a philosophy tha: they believe is in the interests of Australia, namely, that they are all right and the other side is all wrong. 

 Senator Bishop knows as well as I do, because he has been in the business for long enough to know, as I was, that that sort of short range policy may temporarily gain an increase in wages for one's membership. But, if we want ultimately to lift the living standards of our members, we are making no real contribution to the future progress of the working people of this country by adopting that policy. The working people today know more about economics than any of the honourable senators here tonight do. They know - those of them who are listening tonight can judge me when I next come up for election - that every wage increase they receive which is not matched by an increase in productivity takes from them the standard of living that they want to enjoy, and that every advantage they gain, in terms of increased leave, which is not matched by an expansion of the economy and an expansion of production only makes it more difficult for the pensioners and superannuitants on their fixed incomes to survive in our community as it is today. Honourable senators cannot argue against those statements because they are economic facts of life. 
The members of the Senate who are sitting here tonight are genuinely trying to learn something in the interests of Australia's future on a problem that is a mystery. If it was not a mystery, surely we would have solved it before this. It is a problem with many facets about which all of us still have many things to learn. We should stand up here and exchange our ideas as people with an interest in Australia, not as people just trying to gain a political advantage over each other or sing a song that will be welcomed by the unions on one side, or on the other side sing a song that may defend the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  who has agreed to the evils that I have just outlined in the trade union movement and who, indeed, had an entirely different policy on the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd from that of his representative in this chamber,  Senator Carrick.  Every time I picked up the newspapers - certainly in the first week after the BHP announcement - the Prime Minister did not seem to know what to do about the price increase. But then he became very definite and said that it was a stab in the back to him personally and to his Party. Now he proposes to have an inquiry to find out why the price of steel went up. After hearing  Senator Carrick  here tonight, I suggest that he will not need any inquiry because the honourable senator knows all the answers before the inquiry has been made and has said that the increase was quite justified. I know that BHP is a big Australian company and one of the few that have not been sabotaged to the extent of being made almost non-Australian by overseas investment. I think it would be a great  tragedy for  Australia if BHP was allowed to fall below the level at which Australian capital could be persuaded to stay in it and it became another case of a sell-out to overseas capital. 
The motion before the Senate suggests that the Committee that this Senate has already set up can find out the reasons for these things and at least satisfy the Prime Minister now that he favours some inquiry into the reasons why at that time BHP said that it found it necessary to increase the price of steel, lt is true that it still has the second cheapest price of steel in the world. We could make it the cheapest if we could increase the price of our raw materials to Japan. The Japanese must, of necessity, then put up their price of steel because most of it is made out of our raw materials. Speaking from memory  -  I am reasonably sure I am right - in the last 12 months Japan increased its exports of steel by 14 per cent. That was after an increase of approximately 10 per cent in the previous year. If we take the 14 per cent and the 10 per cent on the basic figure, we arrive at a figure of about 30 per cent as the increase in Japan's exports of steel in the last 2 years. The Japanese will argue with us that they want more equality in their terms of trade with us. But when we remind them that they could not achieve those exports of steel, out of which they make a lot of money, without the Australian raw materials, they very quickly begin to realise that an adverse trade balance with Australia is very necessary for their economy. 
I do not believe that we would be under the threat of the importation of Japanese steel if the price of steel here was investigated. I do not think there would be any real objection by the Austraiian people if an investigation showed that the price increase ''ere was justified. After all, on whatever side of this chamber we sit, we must appreciate that the increase in the price of steel applied by BHP, in  relation  to the motor car or even the average suburban dwelling, would not amount to even a snap of the fingers in terms of the ultimate price of the motor car or dwelling, compared with the increase in interest rates which, as 1 have outlined before, went up gradually from 4 per cent to 8 per cent. A person does not pay the 4 per cent or 8 per cent in only the year in which he buys the motor car or dwelling; he goes on paying it on the money he has borrowed until the motor car or dwelling is paid off. Any increase in the price of the basic raw materials that go into a product such as a motor car or a house is as nothing compared with the increase in the ultimate price of the product which has been brought about by the inflated cost of money which has been developed quite deliberately in our economy over the last half a dozen to 10 years. 
I hope that the Government will take note of some of the things that have been said in the debate tonight. 1 hope particularly thai it will recognise that in the current controversy in the industrial world lies the greatest threat it has ever faced. At times in the past it has shown some courage in dealing with the problems of Australia. 1 concede that to the Government. Finally I warn the Government that, if it cannot find the courage and the common sense to realise the dangers in'.o which it is gradually being swept, it will not be the Government of this country for much longer. I make it perfectly clear that there are no political threats from me in that statement. It will not be the Government because the people of this country will not tolerate a government which is supposed to be leading them but which will not go out in front and give them the lead which is necessary when these topics are discussed. If the Government wants the lead on the question it can get it from the 84 per cent of the membership of the union involved in the amalgamations which refused to vote on the question of amalgamation. If it wants to know the reason why 1 will give it because I have been in the trade union movement. 1 appreciate my colleagues coming to my assistance to deal with interjectors but I do no', need even their assistance on this question. Many of that 84 per cent of the membership of those unions that did not vote would have a very valid reason for not voting. Once there is control of an industrial movement by members of the Communist Party it is very difficult for individuals to buck the machine that controls it. lt is very difficult because many of them do not receive the ballot papers they are supposed to get. If it is known that the members will not vote in the right way their ballot papers disappear in transit. It is very difficult because those who do interest themselves in union affairs - everybody knows that that is a very small minority of the membership of any union today; my colleagues in the Labor Party know this, whether or not they will admit it - are those who take an interest, who have to stand up to not only the physical threats of violence against themselves but also the harassment of their wives and families by telephone calls in the middle of the night which threaten and use vile language. I plead with the Government to take some action before it is too late to see that this greatest of threats to the future stability of price levels does not receive its approbation. I ask the Senate to carry the motion before the Chair and the amendment that we have moved to it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! ls the amendment seconded? 
I am persuaded to enter this debate in relation to the amendment only because of! what  Senator Wood  has said I think he diverted attention from the amendment which is before the Chair to the general principle which was decided on during the debate on the second reading. I do not think it is emotional to draw the attention of the Committee to statistical facts, I accept  Senator Hannan's  figures because I have no knowledge of what has happened in other countries which have tried what we are proposing here. J.t is understandable that those statistics would be as they are because if a man has committed a particularly violent crime such as armed robbery and has wounded somebody. Tn the course of that crime, when the police are endeavouring to apprehend him he is probably already up for a life sentence. What more has he to lose by shooting down a policeman in an effort to escape? The policemen are the representatives of society. I do not think we can ignore the statistical fact that one country faces great difficulty because of a huge leap in the percentage of crimes of this character - the murder of policemen. We have argued that the death penally is not a deterrent; that it is an act of vengeance in this case. Bui here we see a specific set of circumstances in which perhaps the threat of the death penalty is a deterrent. Do we owe more to the criminal than we do to those in our society who have to do the unpleasant jobs on our behalf? 1 think of the warder in the gaol who is charged with the incarceration of a murderer already under a life sentence for murder. If that prisoner murders the warder there is little that can be done to increase his sentence. He may be put on bread and water but then we get back to torture, which is something that none of us agrees with these days. I wonder whether the death penalty could not be considered as a further punishment which would act as a deterrent in those circumstances. I would like somebody to produce other figures to show me that that would not be so. To my mind there is a faint hope that the death penalty would act as a deterrent in those circumstances. If it did, whatever may be my beliefs about the taking of human life in the circumstances that we have discussed here tonight - and I voted for the second reading of this Bill - we owe it to those people to whom we give such tasks on behalf of society to hold on to any deterrent whatsoever. In the fina) analysis their lives are more precious than those whose lives we threaten to take if they go to the extreme of murdering a policeman or a warder acting in the course of duty. 
As our law stands even today, we still make the final decision on the degree of the crime. I disagree with the argument that we should not discuss the degree of the crime. It is impossible not to keep in mind at all times that there are degrees of crime and degrees of responsibility. One man may commit a particularly atrocious sex murder and be found not guilty of murder' because he is not responsible for his action. Society once may have considered him to be responsible but we have progressed and we recognise that there are degrees of crime which must be taken into consideration at all times when deciding punishment. This does not mean that if we retain the death penalty a man who kills a policeman at the moment of committing a crime, without really intending to kill the policeman, necessarily will be subject to the extreme penalty at all. But if he killed a policeman in the circumstances I outlined earlier - that is while he was endeavouring to escape from the responsibility for a crime already committed - if he was prepared to kill callously because he knew that no further retribution could be made against him, I think that is a different degree and I would be happy to leave it for our courts to determine, as we. do today. The courts make the final decision on degree and they deal with the final appeals if necessary. 
That is an oversimplification. That is not necessarily the case at all. In the past we have exacted the death penalty on people who have been with people who were armed and killed somebody in. the process of a robbery, lt mav be that in the mind of one person the arms were to be used merely as a threat in order to get whatever they were after. That person may never have dreamed of meeting a policeman who would be in a position of resisting the threat. That illustrates the point 1 am trying to make. Degrees of responsibility have to be considered. We have procedures in our courts and there is a final appeal to the representatives of the Crown. That virtually means there is an appeal to the parliaments of this country. At this point of time I see no harm in retaining the death penalty as a further deterrent against crimes of the type 1 outlined. 
It would be much better to retain the death penalty for a period in order to see the effect of the advances that we propose in the form of the abolition of capital punishment in specific fields. Then we could take the final steps. It would be much better to progress in that way than to do what Canada apparently had to do. I wonder how many honourable senators who spoke quite sincerely in this debate, as did my colleague  Senator Byrne,  would still be prepared to vote against the reinstitution of the death penalty if they were faced with the statistical evidence that seems to be building up in England. To reinstitute the death penalty would be a greater step backward than to do what the amendment suggests, that is, to retain the right to exact the extreme penalty in circumstances such as those I outlined. In my opinion we should have that further deterrent to stop that type of crime from increasing and to protect the people whom we charge with the responsibility of maintaining law and order. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Could the Minister inform the Senate whether there has recently been a reduction of 30 per cent in the retail prices of veterinary vaccines supplied by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories? If so, are such reductions possible because of dramatically improved techniques or are the laboratories retailing at a loss to be met by the taxpayers? If there are no obvious reasons for such a reduction, can the Minister give an assurance that farmers have not previously been grossly overcharged for such products? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONHere again I need to get a detailed comment from my Department. It would be unfair, in view of the tenor of the question, to give an answer until I get the full facts. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has no objection to the Loan (Australian Wheat Board) Bill and will support it. It is merely a machinery matter. Guarantees have been entered into and we should take over this liability and provide money so that the bank's repayment can be made at the specified period. One matter which puzzles me just a little - I have no doubt there, is a logical explanation - is whether the interest rate has been established because it is the interest rate which has been charged by the bank and we are merely meeting the commitment to the bank and then carrying on the loan. In general, the interest rate is to be the same as it was 12 months ago although in recent months, the Government reduced the bond rate of interest. That would have led one to believe that there would have been a general reduction in the rate of interest on all loans. While recognising (hat this rate is still well below the normal rate charged on money borrowed at the present time, it would appear to the casual observer that the rate should have gone down on this loan as it has on everything else. Even a reduction of onequarter or one-half of one per cent is quite considerable on a $90m loan. I have no doubt that there is an explanation why this rate has been stabilised at the same interest rate which was being paid 12 months ago and that the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson),  who in this chamber represents the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  will give us the answer when he responds to the second reading debate. 
The other matter with which I want to deal briefly is the reference to the potential markets which are supposed to exist in Mainland China. I hope that the. wheat industry, the Australian Wheat Board and those who are sympathetic and trying to do something for the primary producers of this country, will not run away with the idea that the simple solution is to have one mammoth purchaser which is purchasing mainly for its own convenience and certainly not in the interests of Australian wheat producers. It would be foolish to believe that because certain changes are taking place in the international field there will naturally be a reversion to the former situation and we will sell more wheat to Mainland China, or even a reversion to the time when we made sales to Mainland China out of a few Australian crops. I think that that situation is most unlikely to arise. 
Actually, when we sold wheat to Mainland China we sold it under completely different world marketing circumstances. At that time the United States of America which had huge wheat surpluses- refused to sell to Mainland China. Because America was not in the market to sell to Mainland China one of the most virile competitors, as far as Australian wheat sales were concerned, was removed. This enhanced our prospects of meeting the emergency situation which forced Mainland China to buy wheat from us, and we cashed in. One of the greatest mistakes Australian producers could possibly make at this time is to think that because of a realignment of international feeling towards Mainland China there will naturally be a burst of buying of Australian primary products, whether it be wheat or anything else. I suggest that anybody who doubts what I say should study the figures of the imbalance of international trade which we have had in recent years with Mainland China compared to the very favourable trade balance which we have enjoyed with Taiwan. Certainly Taiwan is a much smaller country in terms of population but in terms of international trade Taiwan trades much more, freely with the rest of the world than does Mainland China, which does not intend' to trade with any country if it can possibly avoid doing so. 
Obviously it is the intention of Mainland China to be self-supporting as far as possible and not to buy internationally any more than it is forced to. Indeed, whether it could meet the commitment of international buying on a very high scale at this time seems to be very doubtful to economic investigators. I sound that warning because I feel that it is much better for Australia to seek the broader markets of the world and to sell smaller quantities to a greater number of countries, than to become committed to supplying huge quantities to a particularly shaky market which could possibly exist in any primary production trading with Mainland China. When I say that, I am not suggesting that our Party claims that there should be no trade at all with any particular country. We have always sounded this warning note. We sounded it when, for several years, the purchase of wheat by Mainland China was inordinately high and when the wheat acreage of this country was expanded out of all proportion to meet that market. We believe, as we warned, that the seeds were sown which led to the ultimate collapse of the market and to some of the problems which flowed to the wheat industry. This matter may not be mentioned specifically in the Bill but it has been mentioned during the course of the debate. My party supports the Bill. We would like the Minister to give us any explanation which may exist as to why the interest rates remain unchanged from what they were 12 months ago. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to support the Honey Industry Bill 1972. This is a growing industry. There has obviously been dissatisfaction with the previous Australian Honey Board. That is not difficult to understand when it is realised that there exists the rather unique feature of a common Australia-wide association in which a decision must be unanimous otherwise there is no decision. Of course, this would lead to a great number of road blocks in any attempt, to get. anything done in the industry. I do not know how the honey producers would vote on whether a new board is warranted at this time. Indeed, few of them have discussed thai matter specifically with me. The export tonnage of honey from this country in recent years is impressive. The new markets that are opening in Asia are very important. 
I could not imagine that producers who are busy producing the product in cooperation, of course, with the bees are in a position in which they could adequately handle the marketing of this product in an international sense. For that reason, my counsel to honey producers in general would be that they certainly need a board of some son to promote the interests of their industry in the interests of each and every one of them who is part of it. 1 think that the maximum capacity of this industry to export to the more congested countries of the world is obvious. I doubt whether human beings will be able to live in the shadows of Tokyo, for instance, within the next 10 years let alone busy little bees who have to go out and energetically gather honey. They will need more than wings to plough through the atmosphere that we see today around the industrial sections of Japan. I would think that the sparse population of our country - that is normally a great handicap to development - would assist this industry and give it certain benefits which would be of tremendous advantage in world markets. A properly constituted board, working in the proper manner to assist the producers to market the potential of this industry, is needed. We are experiencing many difficulties in primary industry and we must search for the initiative to create new markets for new products that are readily acceptable to those new markets in the Asian area in particular. 
The honey industry could perhaps develop more sensationally than it has. The criticisms of the Board as it has been constituted in the past could be valid. I received a communication from the South Australian Commercial Apiarists Associa tion, lt had some criticisms to offer on the emoluments paid to the Board. In presenting its case that Association suggested that the Board had met on only 17 days in the last 3 years. It seems to me that on that basis of meeting on 6 days a year the emolument of $1,300 that is prescribed for a Board member is generous. But I am well aware that you cannot assess the emolument merely on the basis of how many times a board meets. No doubt the Minister will give us some information on this question. There is a tendency, even by the Press of this country, to judge the worth and value of members of  Parliament  and the work they do on the number of days that the Parliament may sit. Members of Parliament know, and 1 suspect that the journalists who write the articles know, that the enormous amount of time that is involved in representing the people of the community in their Parliament has no ida.tionship whatsoever to the number of days on which the Parliament actually meets. 1 would not imagine that the circumstances would be arduous for members on a board such as the Australian Honey Board compared to the circumstances 1 have outlined for members of Parliament. But 1 think more confidence would be created in the Board if we were told precisely what was expected of the ordinary members, apart from the  Chairman,  other than sitting at the Board meetings. The amount of $200 a day is a lot more than is paid to most people. It is certainly a lot more than is paid to members of Senate committees who receive about one twohundredth of that amount for sitting on a committee for a day in Canberra. I notice also that provision is made in the Bill for allowances to be paid to cover expenses that are incurred by members who have to attend board meetings. Naturally, they should be paid. I imagine they would cover accommodation and transport costs and things of that nature. I believe that the responsibilities of people who are accepting the job should be sufficiently arduous r.nd important to the industry to justify the emolument that is suggested in this Bill. Perhaps that has not been so in the past and it is one of the grounds of criticism that is levelled at the Board. For that reason, the Australian Democratic Labour Party supports the Bill although we would like more explanations from the Minister than those contained in his second reading speech. 
One aspect did not receive any attention in the Minister's second reading speech. If the members of the Board are doing what a board should do for this industry they could well be underpaid on the basis of the emolument that is suggested in the Bill. If they are not, and the 17 days of meeting in 3 years constitutes the main activities of the members of the Board, there is an entirety different picture. We do not know what the real picture is. It is for the Minister to explain to us at this time precisely what the activities are; how much the individual members of the Board are concerned with the marketing of products, and how much they give of their own time to personally assist in gathering the knowledge that is necessary to expand the market for this product in the interests of the people who are in the industry and in the interests of Australia in overseas trading. We believe that the general set-up of the new board and the method of election of members will be better than the method that has been adopted in the past. The limitations of the past procedures are obvious, particularly those in relation to the unanimity of decision that is required. A ridiculous situation is reached when one State can hold up the appointment of representatives to the Board from another State. It would appear to me that the organisation of apiarists has been foolish not to correct that situation, thus obviating the necessity to correct it in the Parliament by legislation. Apparently, nothing has been really done about this, whatever may have been the heartburning. We can only say that in the interests of fairness and in the interests of the industry itself it is time that this aspect of it was put right. 
We do not accept the argument that the provision that people can be both producers and packers and be elected by the producers to represent them, constitutes a handing over of the Board to packers. The producer still has to have 200 hives. That is the qualification. If, at the same time, he can provide his own facilities and do his own packing that does not necessarily make him a packer to the detriment of his capacity in the industry to be a producer. He is still a producer. It appears to me that only a minority of seats can be granted to persons who are purely packers and that the other seats must be filled by people who actually produce honey. It appears to me that if they also pack the honey they would have a little broader knowledge of the industry which could be of extra value to a member of the Board and which might not act to the detriment of the industry. 
He is a producer. He has to be. He is a producer before he is a packer. I do not think the producers would elect somebody who was a very small producer and a very large packer to be their representative on the Board. I would say that if they did they must have great confidence in him as a man who would genuinely represent the producers, and that is why they elect him. I think we can safely leave the election of representatives in the hands of the people who are eligible to elect representatives on the Board. 
I do not share the fears which have been expressed by some that because some people are engaged in both activities this would mean handing over the industry to a packer dominated Board. A majority of representatives on the Board must still be producers of honey. I think that is the main feature of this provision. Another good feature is that the other section of the industry which can be important in the marketing of the product - packing - will be represented on the Board. It has to be if we want the industry to develop and grow in exporting. I believe that the Bill will be passed by the Senate. Most of the other points have been covered. I would like from the Minister an explanation of the points I have raised. I am not in any way critical of the emoluments prescribed in the Bill, but I would like him to give us a better idea of how they are being spent. That would increase the confidence of the people in the industry and the public at large in the constitution of the Board. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a Press release by the Press officer of La Trobe University,  Mr Robert  Seagrave, that most of the campus flats were occupied by unmarried couples, that one must be realistic and that there are some married couples in the flats but they are in the minority?  Mr Seagrave  said that he believed a similar situation would arise next April when a $3m housing project got under way. Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the $3m provided for this purpose will be loaned from university funds to a non-profit company managed by representatives of various university authorities and students? What terms of repayment are usual for such moneys; or are the buildings retained by the university and are only current expenses met by the company? Does the Federal Government approve of portion of the education grant to the State of Victoria being used to provide a building for the purpose outlined by  Mr Seagrave? 
I present the following petition from 24 citizens of the Commonwealth residing in Victoria: 
The Honourable The  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill before the House. In saying that, I suggest that this Bill will not settle, and is not designed to settle, disputes but to intercede when disputes are in process for the purpose of protecting the public purse. Whether it will have that effect fully will not be known until the Bill is in effect and has been tested. It is also a matter of controversy whether this was the right way to do this. My own feeling is that this Bill should really be called the George Slater legislation. I believe that it is because of the activities of Comrade Slater in the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union of Australia that we are faced with this proposition  that will be binding on many public serv-- ants who have not been associated with the activities that have led to the introduction of the legislation. 
As a philosophy I would say that it has been brought about mainly by the unbridled use of the right to strike. I have belonged to a union for many years which always recognised that it did not have the powerful economic punch to win improvements in wages and conditions by the use of the strike weapon because the strikes would last for a period in that industry which inevitably would mean that die workers would be starved back to work. We were always warning those in the trade union movement, who were endeavouring to destroy the processes of conciliation and arbitration which the Labor movement had established in this country in the interests of the unions of that fact. They thought that in the economic circumstances cf today they were in a powerful position to use unbridled the right to strike to improve their own conditions regardless of others. 
I think we have a classic example of this is what was referred to by none other than  Senator Murphy  during the adjournment debate only the other evening. He drew attention to the situation that existed in the transport industry as it related to Qantas Airways Ltd and Qantas pilots. I think we should examine that situation. I think we should also remember that the unbridled use of the right to strike can lead to a situation in which a strike may no longer be a strike but may be industrial blackmail. In the case of Qantas pilots,  Senator Murphy  was complaining that their current wages were perhaps excessive and that their claims were outrageous. He said that there should be more equality in that industry between the clerks and the others who are on a much lower pay range. How did this situation come about? It came about because the pilots are in a situation to use the right to strike to the extent that it becomes industrial blackmail. Why are they in that situation? It is because the equipment that they use and the planes that they fly cost such an enormous amount that immediately they are immobilised on the ground the profitability of the company is eaten into and disappears almost overnight. 
 If we believe in the unbridled use of the right to strike, the pilots have never had any responsibility or obligation to the clerks, the sweepers, the cleaners and others in the industry who work for Qantas, who could not ground the aircraft to gain the conditions they may have thought were their just right but who had to put up with a situation in which the great bulk of the profits of the industry and the establishment for which they work, went to the few who were in this powerful industrial position to use unbridled the right to strike to gain only their own ends.  Senator Murphy  complained about the pilots' wages but gave no explanation of why they were in that situation, or analysed the philosophy that if one believes in the unbridled right to strike there is nothing wrong with what the pilots are receiving today or what they may be able to squeeze out of the industry in the future. 
How do we relate this to the situation in in the Public Service? I suggest that in the Public Service the number of employees in particular establishments has now grown to such a tremendous extent because of the needs of this nation that the loss incurred by the department concerned, by the Government and by the taxpayers of this country who pay the salaries of those who are immobilised by a small section which uses the right to strike, that they have as powerful a weapon for industrial blackmail as have the pilots who are able to ground the enormously expensive equipment that is used in their industry. I think that any reasonable person would accept that argument because it is factual. How, then, are we in some way to bridle those who have begun to realise that they have this powerful weapon to use and who are prepared to use it irrespective of the loss to their fellow workers in associated or kindred industries, and who are prepared to use it irrespective of the loss of public moneys which are paid in tax mostly by the people who work in this country - they are the largest taxpayers because of their numbers - if we do not bring in some restraints when we see the irresponsible use of the strike weapon to protect the public purse. 
It is on that point that there are divisions In the sentiments of many of us who happen to be unionists but who have also been elected by the people of this country to protect public moneys and the public purse. We have approached this legislation conscious of all our responsibilities. As I said at the outset, we feel that had it not been for the very irresponsible activities of Comrade Slater in the trade union movement, the Public Service would not be faced with this legislation at this moment. Indeed, this Bill should almost be called the Slater Bill. 
I am not suggesting that it is justice. I am suggesting that the responsibility to protect the public purse is ours. I said at the outset that I am not sure that this is the proper way, the right way or the only way to go about this. I will have more to say about that in a moment. But we must try something and the Government has produced legislation. I want to substantiate what I have said about why I believe this Bill is before the House. Let me draw attention to some of the information that I have relating to the strikes that have taken place in the postal industry in recent years. I want everybody to realise that in the Public Service in the past the good conditions that exist were laid down on the basis of a principle that strikes never occur in the Public Service. In the postal industry, this principle has been completely reversed. The record of the postal service unions over the past 10 years, in my view, is what has brought about the introduction of this piece of legislation. We all know and understand the enormous requirement today for a postal service in trade, commerce and defence and the need for that service to be efficiently and regularly run. The telephone service is important also so that the normal requirements of trade in all industries can be properly carried out. No government, whether it be the present Government or a government which may replace it, can afford to ignore those conditions. I predict now that, if a change of government occurred, whichever party replaced the present Government would find the necessity to use the powers of this legislation and similar legislation if the philosophy of the unbridled right to strike continued to be pursued in the manner in which it is being pursued today. Until those who are interested in labour, the Labor movement and the trade unions are prepared to recognise that an abuse of that philosophy must ultimately bring the repercussions that it is bringing now, not only the current Government but also whatever government replaces it will be forced, if it is the government elected by the people for the people, to resort to action to ensure that public moneys are not thrown away because people use what I describe as industrial blackmail. 
The guerrilla-type operations in the postal service, with short interruptions by small numbers of people causing enormous losses to the taxpayer over the last 10 years, form a particular pattern. I wish to refer to some of them specifically. The unions involved mainly are the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union and the Postal Telecommunications and Technicians Association. They cover a great number of persons engaged in the work force in this industry. Since 1969, stoppages within the Post Office have been as follows: In 1969, 10 stoppages occurred. In 1970 there were 63 stoppages. In 1971, 58 stoppages occurred. To 3rd February 1972, 10 stoppages occurred. This is a total of 141 stoppages in that period. 
I know that it can be argued, perhaps with some truth, that the general industrial tenor of today has created some of those stoppages. But let us have a look at how those stoppages have worked out in their repercussions on the general community. In 1970, the number of man hours lost in the postal service as the result of strikes was 381,777. 
That may be another issue. The loss of those hours may be, preventable or unpreventable. I am giving to the Senate a list of statistics. If the honourable senator has a list of statistics on the matter he has raised, I have no doubt that he will put it before the Senate. The wages lost by these men in 1970 - and they have every right to lose these wages if they want to- amounted to $528,027. In 1971, 146,954 man hours were lost and the loss of wages was $272,896. Up to 3rd February of this year, 29,228 man hours were lost, while $54,138 was lost in wages. The totals over that period were 557,959 man hours lost and $855,057 lost in wages. This is what strikes cost those workers who went on strike. 
What has been the effect on associated people in the postal industry? I wish to quote some of the other aspects of disputes of this character. In September 1971, a dispute occurred at the Redfern Mail Exchange in Sydney. It commenced on 21st September. Four technicians refused, to switch on mail handling plant. All mail processing staff were left idle. Technical staff engaged on maintenance work also were unable to perform their duties. At. 4.30 p.m. that day, all work ground to a: halt. In the dispute, 2,250 man shifts werelost in the mail handling area and 500 man shifts were lost in the technical area. With respect to the 2,750 man shifts affected, 2,750 staff reported for duty but could not effectively perform their duties. Salaries totalling $50,000 were paid for these man shifts with no return in productive effort. This example illustrates the danger of such action. When the refusal of 4 people to carry out their duties creates a situation like this, I believe - and I suggest this to those interested in the trade union movement - that this is where industrial anarchy begins and where industrial blackmail can be so clearly illustrated. When a trade union official can create this sort of' chaos by using only 4 men who are likely to lose wages, we must wonder how much of the public purse would have been plundered during the course of the stoppages that have, taken place already in the postal industry, when 557,959 man hours werelost and $855,057 in wages was lost by the' participants in those strikes. If the same ratio as applied to the 4-man stoppage that I have used as an illustration had applied over the whole of industry - I know that it is an extreme case, but it could happen - how enormously the taxpayers would have1 been penalised because of what could have' been a very small and petty dispute that occasioned 4 people to withhold their labour at a particular time. 
I do not know. As far as the union is concerned, whether it is' justifiable or not - and if it was justifiable' for them to go out-- 
I cannot answer the question. I do not propose to. If that were so, I think that it is unreasonable to suggest that a stoppage of work was actually necessary to attain the ends that were required and that it is completely beyond the pale to suggest that it was necessary to incur an enormous loss of public money in paying the rest of the employees who were doing nothing white those 4 technicians were on strike. On both sides- 
This may be purely a matter of opinion. I have not condemned the stoppage itself. What I am condemning is the fact that it was used and took place in the manner in which it did, so depriving the public of value for the expenditure of that enormous amount of wages because these people were idle. There will always be those who will take advantage of circumstances which permit such action. If honourable senators suggest otherwise, they do not face the realities of human nature. If there were not such people, airline pilots would not be receiving the wages that they are receiving and would not be making the extravagant demands that  Senator Murphy  described to us the other night. The philosophy is exactly the same. It is exactly the same use of the economic power that lies in the hands of a minority of people who can use it to pose the threat of loss to other people so as to obtain their specific demands or the particular objective that they want. I am opposed to it. I believe that the trade union movement, if it is sensible, will use the right to strike in a much more reasonable manner,. I think that it mostly has done so, under the national auspices of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. That body has never made a practice of racing to the strike weapon as the immediate and only solution to an argument about safety or anything else. 
Debate interrupted. 
When my speech on the Public Service Arbitration Bill was disrupted by the adjournment of the Senate honourable senators may recall that I was relating the right to strike to an undisciplined misuse of the strike weapon by industrial organisations. Indeed there has been misuse of certain restrictive clauses which are inevitably available under our system of arbitration and which prevent dismissals or standdowns without due reason when those who wish to resort to bans in industrial organisations may disrupt the employment of others. I bad in mind certain industrial organisations such as the Australian Air Pilots Association and the manner in which international pilots have been able to obtain quite exceptional salaries and conditions from Qantas Airways Ltd. I was drawing a comparison between these people and the economic power held by large numbers of people employed in the Public Service who are able to disrupt and deny facility of work to others in. the Public Service. To use the economic value pf the payroll of such a large organisation to disrupt work is a form of industrial blackmail. Ultimately, . the trade union movement will not be advantaged by the use of this technique. 
I adverted to the remarks made by  Senator Murphy  during the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate in relation to what happened to those who did not have industrial power, although the honourable senator did not put his submission in quite that way. He referred to what happened to clerks, sweepers and cleaners employed by Qantas. He compared their salaries and conditions to the salaries received by pilots. I illustrated how this will be inevitable if one believes in the philosophy of paramount economic power and the right to use the strike weapon. Those in industry who have the industrial power to disrupt others will be able to use that power for their own aggrandisement. They will forget that those in a lesser position who do not have the same economic punch inevitably will receive only the leftovers from industrial action or anything else. 
In saying these things I am supporting the Bill, which has been brought in by the Government to add stand-down clauses to Public Service awards. It follows what has happened recently, particularly in the postal union. It is referred to now as the George Slater Bill after the secretary of the postal workers organisation, which has used these particular techniques to what  Mr Slater  thought would be the . great advantage of his own membership. However, they were carried to a stage where Government intervention has been forced to some extent. We have as a result a Bill that is really unfair to the many public servants who have not resorted to those particular activities. Indeed, they could be the pawns in the game. They will be forced to remain idle when they cannot be usefully employed by the Government, which is now protecting itself or the public purse by legislating for non-payment of wages during the period in which their services cannot be used in a reasonable maimer. 
I can understand their resentment that these regulations should be imposed upon them, but I cannot see how a division can be created in the Public Service. It would seem this is a classic example of the majority of them having a threat hanging  over their heads. This has been done in  the interests of the general community following the misuse by some people of a power that they suddenly realised they had against the community at large. I can understand, too, that the employees concerned will read into legislation such as this things that may not be actually threatening them. In this respect their fears are groundless. Indeed, I have received representations from people who fear that this is a move by the Government to enable it to stop the flow-on of a particular wage increase that was given in Victoria to public servants in general. If that had been the Government's intention, I make it quite clear that we do not believe in legislation of this character to forestall industrial benefits. However, it is not our judgment at this point of time that the Government so plans to misuse this legislation for those purposes. 
It has been represented to me also that the normal industrial conditions of employees who are stood down may be interfered with. It is suggested that if they are stood down without pay over some considerable period because of an irresponsible stoppage of work by somebody else in the Public Service, their annual leave rights and long-service leave rights may be interfered with because of the drafting and wording of certain Public Service regulations. I have not been able to read all those Public Service regulations in the period available to me, but basically I do not share the view that it is the intention of the present Government, or would be the intention of any future government, to misuse these powers, to take advantage of  a  set of circumstances and to force a stand-down of innocent people who, but for the stoppage of work by others, would be gainfully employed. Though I have not a detailed knowledge of the Public Service regulations, I deny that they would be so loosely worded as to permit those circumstances. Under most industrial awards, employment is not terminated because of a stand-down. There must be other reasons for termination of employment, and certain rights accrue to persons whose employment has been terminated. It has been definitely established that where the employment is terminated, the rights of the employee to annual leave and long-service leave shall be protected. It would be  a  great surprise to me if the Public Service regulations do not protect the interests of public servants in this regard. If they did not, I believe it would be necessary to amend some other part of the Public Service legislation. I do not believe it would be the intention of this Government or any other government to use legislation of this character, which permits the stand-down of employees who cannot be usefully employed, for the purpose of avoiding longterm obligations that go with the general conditions of wages and employment. 
To my mind it can be clearly established that the unions I mentioned, like the Postal Workers Union, and  Mr Slater's  activities, have in some measure been responsible for the introduction of this legislation. I criticise the Government for its weakness under pressure and its lack of appreciation of the true circumstances of industrial activity. The Government has itself contributed largely to the necessity for this type of extreme action against  a  lot of innocent people in an attempt to terminate tha activities of  a  noisy few. I advert to the circumstances that applied in the Christmas period and just after Christmas when there was  a  ban in the postal service on the installation of new telephones for people who were discriminated against by the union. The Government has the right to instruct employees in this service to carry out the duties apportioned to them through the postal department irrespective of who the customer is, but it chose to allow the ban  to  go on for months. Australian citizens who were just as good telephone customers as any other customers not singled out by the union were denied repair service to their telephones, They were denied service and their businesses were disrupted. Employment in their industries was endangered. Indeed, some employees had to be dismissed because the flow of orders could not be maintained without a telephone service. 
In the Public Service award there is  a  clear right to stand down  a  person who refuses an order that is reasonably given. I believe that an order given to  a  telephone technician to install  a  telephone or repair any subscriber's telephone is an order reasonably given. I appreciate that the Government was under the threat that if such an order had been given at that particular dme, the whole of the service might have stopped. I do not believe that justifies the cowardice of the Government in failing to face its industrial responsibilities by denning that requirement clearly. Perhaps the Government considered that the com.munity had to be saved from a total ban on the installation and repair of telephones. However, the Government has a duty to administer. It is elected by the people to protect all the people, not only people who have approval from the secretary of the union to get their telephone repaired. The Government must consider the innocent victims. There would have been no danger that a telephone belonging to a trade union might not be fixed at that time. I believe Bourkes stores would have been able to get its telephones fixed at that time. They were then enjoying certain friendly relationships with the unions, but these have since been disrupted. However, their competitors would not have got their telephones fixed. I am not criticising unionists who may think this is a clever technique, under the guise of arbitration Acts in general, to isolate an industrial activity or ban of this character. I am criticising the Government, which has the power to make the situation clear that it will not tolerate this sort of activity.  Senator Brown  smiles. I suppose he approves of be immorality of the ban. 
Let me tell the honourable senator the situation. The union was allowed by the Government to define the subscribers whose telephones it would fix or would not fix. What has happened in trade unionism in other parts of the world must not be allowed to happen here, but it will inevitably do so unless something is done to prevent it. Trade unions are composed of ordinary, normal human beings; our trade union officials are no better and no worse than other members of the community. If this sort of conduct is allowed to continue, the stage will ultimately be reached where no person will be able to have a telephone installed without the approval of the union. That really means the union official. In the United States of America, where industrial power has so often been misused, invariably the stage has been reached where unless union officials are bribed certain people cannot get the things they require. The whole wonderful trade union organisation is corrupted when a government subscribes to the immoral point of view that a trade union official shall decide that a place of business shall not have its telephone connected, although it has done nothing to offend the union, and that another place of business shall have its telephone connected if it accedes to the request of the union. I warn the Government that it is playing with fire if it thinks that it is being clever by postponing a clash after an immoral stand has been taken - by anybody, in any activity at all. 
The unions should not aspire to the situation that seems to have been reached in some of the universities today; they must not suppose that they are above the laws that apply to everybody else. Over the centuries of activity who has done the most to establish the principle that there cannot be one law for the rich and another for the poor, one for the privileged and another for the non-privileged, one for those on the university campus and another for apprentices? University administrators have not enforced the normal community standards that are provided by law. On a university campus one can use language which, if used by an apprentice in the streets of Fitzroy, would result in the apprentice being arrested by the police. On a university campus one can say objectionable things to girls or to anyone else. When I complained to a university vice-chancellor last week he said: "They use some of that language on the stage, in a world of make believe. Why should we stop it on the campus?' Well, we stop it in the streets, and as long as we stop it in the streets we should stop it on the university campus. A Victorian apprentice who may have been in a hotel when he used the language should not face a charge as a result of using the language if a person on a university campus can use it and not be charged. 
The same principle applies to all other activities. If the law does not allow hotels and motels to let double rooms to people who are not married, we should not allow university authorities to do so. If that privilege is given to one section of the community it should be given to all sections. Let the hotels advertise: 'We have double rooms for single customers'. 
I am not blaming George Slater for that. I am attacking the Government. The honourable senator is foolish and is not following the debate closely enough to know what I am doing. lt is the weakness of the Government, not George Slater's weakness, that I am criticising. He may have been cunning and said: 'I can see how the Government can be embarrassed by stopping telephones from being connected to a business house'. He tried out his technique. What did the Postal Department do? It folded up. It did not insist that all its customers were equal. lt said: 'We are sorry that we cannot get your telephone fixed'. The Government knew, as I know, that it could have suspended every employee who refused to carry out the proper order properly given under the terms of his employment by his employer. If an employee did not do so, then as an individual he should suffer the consequences, and the union should say: We told him not to carry out those duties. We shall have to call all our men out on strike and they shall go without wages until we get him reinstated'. But no, the Government was prepared to allow the employees to refuse duty, on the instruction of their union. I do not criticise them as individuals for carrying out the instruction of their union, but they have a responsibility. The clear responsibility of the Government was to suspend and dismiss those who did not carry out the proper order properly given. If the union accepted its obligations to its members there would have been a head-on confrontation which would have had to be resolved. That would not have taken as long nor penalised as many people as the course adopted by the Government. 
I am one of those people, old fashioned perhaps, who believe that employees should not be getting wages when they are Oil strike. That is what happened when employees of the Postal Department refused to carry out certain instructions. I condemn the Government because of the weak stand that it took on the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Certain fines were imposed and the Government ran away from collecting them. I would have had a tremendous amount of support from the Labor Party senators if the fines had been imposed on the employers. Labor Party senators would have been the first people to insist that the fines must be paid until the law is altered. We still have the law. We still have a government that was too weak to ensure that the law was applied properly. The Government has had to introduce legislation such as the present Bill to cure a situation that has been aggravated largely by its own weaknesses. 
I advert to another situation to illustrate my point. In the last 3 or 4 years there has grown in another section of the Public Service in Victoria - and from my reading, in some other States - a campaign to improve the wages and conditions of employment, both of which have always been exceptionally good by comparison with the wages and conditions of those in other vocations. I refer to the teaching profession. I believe that the wages and conditions of employment for teachers, leave periods and all other conditions should be the best in the land. We trust teachers with our most precious possession, our children and the development and education of their minds. Teachers have enjoyed very good conditions. But a new situation has developed. Children have been used deliberately as articles of blackmail because the teachers have wanted something - not necessarily a further improvement in their already very good conditions but something which they thought was perhaps politically desirable or desirable for the teaching service in general. It is doubtful that their function is to use children as a means of trying to impose their will on the authorities of the day, when the will of the people at election time is the right will to be imposed upon governments. 
For those who doubt me I quote one classical example. I refer to a strike at the Northcote High School in Victoria. It may have been pulled with the best of intentions by the teachers. If that were so, why was it that 2 days before the beginning of the annual Christmas leave period these highly moral teachers scuttled back to work  to  deplete the public purse to the extent of  7  to  8  weeks pay? They did not give service during the year to justify their getting that pay because they had been on strike for nearly 2 months. The same people will carry in the street banners calling for more money for education. Everybody approves the principle of more money for education, but where is a lot of the money for education going? 
I issue a warning to the industrial movement in general and particularly to teachers in Victoria, who are paid on an annual basis and who can be on strike for 5 days a week and still get two-sevenths of a week's pay. They may persist in using the form of blackmail of denying children their right to be educated over a period, and they may continue to use the technique of rolling strikes on one day each week - for which they are docked only one-seventh instead of one-fifth of their wages. But let them be warned that if ever we get a government - of whatever political complexion - with enough moral courage to stand up to the situation, that government will see that Acts are passed to terminate the capacity of public servants to rob the rest of the community of money that they have not earned. I challenge those who support activities of that character to justify that it is right for anybody to say: 'I can strike 5 days in the week and then get paid for the Saturday and Sunday I do not work'. That is what is happening in the teaching profession in Victoria. Let me say this as an industrialist and a trade unionist: No government that for long tolerates such a set of circumstances will ever stop people from striking. 
I adverted to the circumstances in the Postmaster-General's Department when the strike was held in regard to the installation and repairing of telephones and the refusal of the employees properly to carry out their duties as defined under the Act. Indeed, it included their moral duties to instal telephones for all people. If the employees had an industrial issue which justified a strike, they should have gone on strike. If the Government had carried out its responsibilities it would have said that all telephones would be repaired or installed in the order in which applications were lodged and processed by the Department, or no telephones would be repaired or installed. It should have said that all employees who refused duty would be dismissed. I can readily accept the fears of those who are being affected by these strikes when they have no responsibility for them. I have been told - I had no knowledge of this before; it has not been within the field of my activities - that even Commonwealth Bank employees could be affected by this legislation. I see no connection industrially with their activities, as with other wings of the Public Service, and this legislation. I use the Commonwealth Bank employees only as an illustration. 
I think it is wrong that those employees whose actions have never justified the introduction of this legislation also should have it hanging over them. Indeed, they remained at their desks cashing cheques while those employed in other banks refused to cash them. That is their business, but at least these employees stood by their desks as public servants. If this legislation does not apply to them, I have been misinformed and I would be pleased to be told of that. Apparently, the employees in this institution, with others, have taken part in establishing their opposition to this legislation. We are sensitive to the reasons for their objection to it. We do not think that legislation should have to be introduced in this way. But the circumstances which prevail have produced 'the legislation presently before us. We feel that paramount in this issue is the fact that we are in the Parliament as representatives of the people to protect the people's purse. 
I cite the classic example in the Post Office when 4 people were pulled out and $50,000 of the public's money had to be wasted in the form of wages for people who could not be gainfully employed. Because of that kind of stoppage we would say that there is justification for the Government properly acting to see that there are no recurrences of a situation such as that. If this legislation is used for the purpose that the Government has defined and if it is not misused in accordance with the fears which are being expressed by the unions - we see no intent on the part of the Government at this point to misuse it and I am conscious of the fact that any government that did so misuse it would very rapidly cease to be a government in a community such as ours - we feel that at this point of time it should pass. 
The Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We are particularly pleased that the Government, in making the adjustments on this occasion, has seen fit to give some attention to the means test category of pensioners and to put them back in their rightful position. As we have stated during debates on successive budgets, they should not have been placed at a disadvantage when the pension increases that have taken place in recent times are taken into consideration. I must comment that it seems remarkable that the suggestions which we put and which were unacceptable to the Government only last August, after there has been a period of restriction of the economy which caused unemployment figures to rise and which created a sense of instability throughout the whole of industry, are suddenly acceptable and the economy has suddenly become flush enough for the Government to be able to afford to do the things that we suggested were within the compass of the national expenditure last August. 
There must have been a realisation by the Government that the economy was not developing in the way in which it should under the restrictions. Perhaps some of the other steps that the Government took to control inflation, such as a reduction in interest rates, may be proving more effective than trying to impoverish and draw back the whole of the economy as a restrictive measure. I would confidently predict that if the Government pursued a policy of bringing Australian interest rates more into line with those of countries with similar economies the Government would find that still more of the problems of inflation would be gradually brought under control. As I have said to the Government time and again - we think it has been shown by the trend that the economy has taken - one of the major causes of inflation was the medicine that the Government was pouring into the economy. It was increasing costs by increasing interest rates. That idea is supported only by particular schools of economists and certainly not by all economists. It can never be shown that the practical effect of increasing interest rates has been to bring back under control an economy which is suffering from an inflationary spiral. Increasing interest rates merely adds to costs and impoverishes organisations that have debited finances. I refer to local government organisations whose main source of expenditure is the interest that they have to pay on the loans which have accrued and which have to be renewed because the organisations have not the money to repay them. The loans have to be renewed at double interest rates. 
Having said that and having indicated our general approval of the Bill,I must say the only other thoughts that our Party would have are that perhaps the manner of the introduction of the Bill is further proof that ultimately some government with the wisdom to accept the Democratic Labor Party's advice will set up an independent tribunal to decide these matters, will accept the recommendations when the independent tribunal makes them and will see that it is able to finance what is reasonable to give our pensioners a proper standard of living. Then we will not have a political football thrown into the ring very suddenly and with little time to see whether it is a football that we can kick around. I feel that if ever there was proof that pensions can become a political football, it is when whe have to consider Bills of this character in the circumstances in which we are considering this Bill tonight. We will do everything possible to see that it has a speedy passage through the Senate. 
1 indicate (hat the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports both these Bills. I indicate also that we will support the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Georges. 
One can be excused for the verbal error made under the pressure of the haste with which the Senate is dealing wilh these Bills. One should bear in mind that neither  Senator Poyser  nor  Senator Georges  has ever been frightened to express his point of view. Each honourable senator is usually most vocal. So, I confuse one with the other. The DLP will support the amendment moved by  Senator Poyser.  In dealing with social service matters the Government seems to be reluctant to pay due deference to families. We have had a great deal of difficulty in getting the Government to agree with us on the need to take action, specifically on the maternity allowance, which has been neglected over a long period. The Government seems to have some theory that adequate cover is provided if people are able to afford the rates necessary to obtain adequate hospital benefits and so on. It believes that by this people are covered adequately to meet the circumstances of maternity expenses. 
We are trying not to introduce any hostility into our consideration of these measures. On many occasions the Australian Labor Party has refused to support the general principles which we have enunciated on general pensions. The Government, in its attitude towards families, seems to be imbued with a reluctance to give due consideration to the requirements in an economy such as ours in which prices have been spiralling. This has thrown an extra strain on the family unit, particularly on larger families. We have always pushed the argument that the current rates of child endowment have been insufficient particularly in respect to families with an excess of 2 or 3 children. 
We accept the criticism that  Senator Poyser  has made because we have not h.:d the time to check the figures, with the exception of these figures in the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  I notice that the Minister does point out that there are payments in respect of the dependants of servicemen but he does not seem to expand on that statement to indicate that those payments are increased by this measure. This would give an indication that the matters raised by  Senator Poyser  are indeed factual. It seems that the dependants of service pensioners are not to receive through this measure the increase which one would normally expect them to receive if the Government was covering the range of social services in granting increases. 
We agree with the criticism contained in the amendment. We would hope that in future the Government, if it continues to be the Government - and I am not making any pessimistic predictions in that regard - or whoever may form the Government 
But the DLP is gaining in strength every day. Who knows? We have been the alternative government for a long time. We have had to play that role because the Opposition has been in such a state, particularly with the disputation among its members. With the evidence of what happened in Victoria over the weekend who knows but that by the next election the Opposition again may be a rabble and the DLP, with its small numbers, will have to do the Opposition's job as it has been doing for a considerable period. I would prefer that honourable senators who are trying to interject did not provoke me in the consideration of this measure. We are in agreement with the Opposition on this occasion. We have indicated that we are prepared to support the amendment which the Opposition has placed before the Senate. I hope that, after the amendment which we support has been dealt with, the Bills then will be carried. 
 I present the following petition: 
The Honourable, the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department, Central Administration policy of decentralising the Sydney Dead Letter Office activities into 300 Post Offices in N.S.W. is against sound business principles, is uneconomic, is against the public interest, and should be made the subject of special investigation by the Senates Social Environment Committee and by the Senate's Finance and Government Operations Standing Committee. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to refer the above matter to the two committees of the Senate referred to, and in the meantime will order that: 
There will be no transfer of persons, areas of authority or operations from the Dead Letter Office, Sydney. 
There will be no introduction of Dead Better Office procedures for opening mail in New South Wales Post Offices until the two committees of the Senate have investigated the matters and reported to the Senate and the Government. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received. 
 I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise whether the Commonwealth pays book bounty on locally produced books of one-quarter of the cost of production of each book? Has the Commonwealth already paid book bounty on so-called .sex manuals such as 'Intercourse', 'Ways of Loving' and 'Call Girl'? If bounty has been paid will the Minister advise me of the cost of production per book, the amount of bounty paid per book and the retail price of each book? Can the Minister confirm or deny reports that his Department has given verbal approval for the book bounty to be paid on the notorious Little Red Schoolbook'. that the estimated cost of production on which bounty will be paid  is  19c a copy and that its retail price  is  $1.75? Can book bounty be refused on a book which is blasphemous, indecent or obscene or which unduly emphasises matters of sex, horror, violence or crime or which is likely to encourage depravity? Does the Minister consider that the 'Little Red Schoolbook' and so-called sex manuals listed above merit book bounty of 25 per cent of the cost of production which  is  paid out of taxpayers' money when there is such a huge margin between cost and retail price? 
Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate the minimum age established in Commonwealth law below which charges of carnal knowledge can be lodged against a male for engaging in sexual relations with the consent of the female partner? Now that the publication The Little Red Schoolbook' which has Federal Government aproval is being distributed in areas of Commonwealth jurisdiction, openly advocating sexual relations amongst school children, and as there is now evidence of distribution amongst primary as well as secondary school pupils, will the Federal Government be considering altering restrictive legislation so that 14- year old schoolboys, who accept the advice of the book to defy parents and engage in such relations with the consent of 12 or 13-year old schoolgirls, will be protected from prosecution under the criminal code? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of the decision of a court in Victoria that the publication known as The Little Red School Book' is an obscene publication? In view of this decision does the Commonwealth propose to refer this publication to some responsible public authority to check its suitability for distribution among school children of the Australian Capital Territory and other Territories under Commonwealth jurisdiction? Can the Minister inform me when I can expect an answer to my question inquiring whether the Government intends to subsidise the printing of this obscene book? 
1 indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support both of these Bills. One of the matters before the Senate relates to the grants made by the Commonwealth to the States. These grants were determined at a conference between the State Premiers and the Commonwealth earlier this year. That they are necessary is known to all of us. Today the Commonwealth controls the purse strings of the nation and, indeed, the economy of the nation. Governments today have been privileged to conduct the economies of nations to a much greater degree than ever before. I am sure that the representatives of the Commonwealth Government here would agree that it is right that a government - in the case of Australia, one government - has to accept this responsibility, because to carve it up amongst the States of the Commonwealth diversifies the control of the whole of the economy into so many hands that it is not a cohesive whole and inevitably must run into trouble. 1 think we would all agree on that. 
But as the Commonwealth has this responsibility I think that it is only wise that in considering these Bills we should look at the whole picture. If I skate on rather thin ice in mentioning the Premiers 
Conference I do so only because  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson who is in charge of the Bills discussed the Premiers Conference when introducing them. In the first paragraph of his second reading speech he stated: 
At the Premiers Conference and Australian Loan Council meeting on 14th February the Commonwealth and the States agreed to a series of measures. 
It is that series of measures that we as the Federal Senate are discussing here tonight. These measures emanated from the conference between the State Premiers and the Commonwealth Government. The Commonwealth Government has control of the economy of this country and exercises its capacity to influence, if not to control completely, the policy of the Reserve Bank, which enables it to control the credit resources and the lending facilities of the nation as well as the interest rates which will apply throughout the whole of the economy. Indeed, it is possible, by the infusion of finance into the various projects carried out in Australia through the State governments, to exert pressures on the economy by releasing extra spending power or, if the Commonwealth Government feels that the economy is getting out of hand, by decreasing spending power. We all recognise that, but what puzzles me whenever Bills of this nature are before the Senate is the patronising attitude the Government adopts towards the sovereign States of the Commonwealth which have sacrificed their own taxing rights to the Commonwealth in the interests of the sane and sensible management of the economy. Even when the Commonwealth Government is making essential provisions to repair some of the gaps in the economy that have occurred through Commonwealth action, it adopts a patronising attitude towards the States as if the Commonwealth were Santa Claus. In fact it is giving back to the people of Australia, as represented by their sovereign State parliaments, the money that has been subscribed by the people of Australia through the taxing resources of the Commonwealth. I think it would be wise for us to analyse how this system is working out because it appears to me from the statements it makes that the Commonwealth Government is not aware entirely of what is involved. I would be one of the first to concede to the Federal Government that factors develop in the economy over which it has little or no control. In such circumstances the Commonwealth has to put forward extra effort to repair the gaps when they occur. It has tried to meet this responsibility. Specific reference is made to this in the Minister's second reading speech. He said: 
The Commonwealth is providing the increased unemployment relief grants with the specific purpose of increasing employment in nonmetropolitan areas . . . 
I can appreciate that an economic problem did develop in non-metropolitan areas in this country in the last few years when it was necessary for the Federal Government, which manages the economy, to take specific steps to counter a set of economic circumstances over which it had little or no control. This was brought about by the sudden disappearance of international markets that once had been available to us but which no longer were there. The Government took that action and I give it credit for doing so. The Minister in charge of the Bills referred also to other factors in our economy. In his second reading speech on the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill (No. 2) 1972 the Minister stated: 
Moreover, despite considerable special assistance from the Commonwealth, -  - 
I repeat the words 'assistance from the Commonwealth' -  rapidly escalating wage costs had meant that in 1970-71 a number of important State works had had to be deferred. 
I am quoting from the Minister's second reading speech which was delivered in this chamber. I presume that is permissible in discussion of the Bill. I maintain that if the Commonwealth is responsible for the control of the economy of the nation, as we have agreed, and if a set of circumstances arises where we have escalating wage costs brought about by escalating prices and escalating demand, then the Commonwealth has some direct responsibility for the economic circumstances which brings about those things. It certainly is not the fault of the States because they have no control in these areas. They cannot restrict credit, they cannot expand credit and they cannot control the Reserve Bank of Australia. They cannot do all the things that are necessary to control the economy of the nation. It is the Commonwealth Government that has that responsibility and authority, not the States. Yet the States have to pay increased wages. How can they pay them if the money is not provided? But of course it is provided; it is provided by the very people whose wages go up. They pay more taxes to the Commonwealth. But when the Commonwealth is called upon to pay that money back to the States to help correct the economic situation, it wants to pose as Santa Claus. The very name of this Bill is a misnomer. It is called a Grants Bill. It seems as though the Commonwealth suddently finds something in its pocket and wants to give it to the States. The money never belonged to the Commonwealth because the Commonwealth is only an intermediary. 
That is right. I will come to that in a moment. I am glad my colleague  Senator Gair  reminded me although I was not likely to forget. It is made clear in these 2 Bills that we are discussing that the States pay interest on the money they need to meet a particular emergency. No matter how much the Commonwealth may boast, per medium of the second reading speeches made by the Minister for Health when presenting these 2 Bills, saying that these provisions are adequate, I would point out that a decision today by a wage fixing authority in Victoria has made the provisions for Victoria for 1971-72 completely inadequate. 
But what will happen to those increased wages when they are paid? Half the increase will flow back directly to the Commonwealth Treasury. Probably the remaining half will come back to it because the people who received increased increments will spend more money which will create more business. Every time the money circulates the Commonwealth will take a proportion in taxes. In concluding his second reading speech on the States Grants Bill the Minister for Health gave us such pearls of wisdom as this: 
Including the special assistance of $15m- 
How the Commonwealth can claim to be giving assistance to the States when it is merely giving them back their own money is beyond me, but that is the verbiage used. The Minister said: 
Including the special assistance of$15m, but not including the special advance of $ 17.5m to New South Wales- 
One would think almost that that was a grant too but it is a loan and it will cost New South Wales at least $2.5m in interest in the 5-year period of the loan, although it will get the first year interest free. The rate of interest involved is over 5 per cent. The Minister went on to say: 
It is estimated that in 1971-72 the States will receive nearly $290m in Commonwealth general revenue assistance over and above the amount they would have received had the arrangements which existed before 1970-71 continued unaltered. 
What a foolish statement that is. It was not possible to continue the arrangements of 1970-71. What effrontery it is for the Commonwealth to suggest that it would be possible for them to continue unaltered when all the wage increases paid to all citizens in all States in the years when those previous arrangements operated has flowed back largely into the Commonwealth coffers. If the Commonwealth kept the money in its coffers the country would run into complete chaos and bankruptcy. 
The Commonwealth is merely doing its job as the manager of the economy, if we accept the facts of life. What was adequate in the circumstances prior to 1970-71 is completely inadequate now because of the existing levels of prices and wages in the economy that the Commonwealth is managing in 1971-72. Why the Commonwealth Government just cannot accept that simple principle without posing as Santa Claus is beyond me. Why does it pretend, as evidenced by this remark in the concluding paragraph of the Minister's second reading speech: 
Thus the Commonwealth has made a very significant contribution indeed towards ensuring that the States have adequate funds available for recurrent purposes in this financial year. 
The Commonweath has nothing but the right to collect taxes and customs duty, and it was the States which granted it those rights. The Commonwealth has merely done its job because the costs of the States are greater this year than they were last year or the year before, and a lot of the responsibility for this rests upon the 
Commonwealth. Costs have increased and this is a result of the Commonwealth's management of the economy. It is not the fault of the States. This has been the cause of the enormous dissension over the years between the States and the Commonwealth, irrespective of the political complexions of the governments. Yet the Commonwealth persists in adopting this generous big brother attitude to the poor little States which are all mismanaging their affairs while the Commonwealth comes to their assistance with the money provided by the people who live in all the States. 
That is right. It is treating them like mendicants. I shall refer to this special grant to New South Wales because it is very interesting. Because of the economic circumstances, because of the large number of people in New South Wales and because of the extra development demanded in it as it is one the largest States, it can show that Si 7.5m extra is needed to provide for the ordinary running expenses of the State, otherwise it could go broke. Instead of the Commonwealth meeting the situation it makes a loan to New South Wales. I appreciate that once a formula is worked out it is difficult to depart from it in order to meet the special needs of a particular State. But the Commonwealth adopts almost a parent to child relationship when dealing with the States and makes out that it has been so very generous in making a loan available to New South Wales at a rate of 5.3 per cent. That in my view is not a situation for which the Commonwealth should demand praise. Rather there should be condemnation because the economy is not managed better. The people of New South Wales cannot get their own money back and use it to run their own State unless they pay 5.3 per cent interest on it. 
I appreciate that not all the money comes from income tax. There are other things such as loan funds and so on but they are usually raised by the States, with the permission of the Commonwealth, at rates of interest over which the Commonwealth has a lot of influence. Indeed, the States - and also local government authorities - were much more able to meet their commitments when the interest rate was  3  per cent than they have been able to do since they have increased to 6 per cent, or even 7 per cent in some cases. But when the Commonwealth meets a situation that has developed from an emergency created by economic factors over which it has control, it wants to say that it is granting wonderful assistance to the States, assistance that has never been given before. I hope it does not think it is fooling us. It is not fooling the Democratic Labor Party anyway. Of course, we are living in an economy in which prices have never been higher and that is the responsibility of the Commonwealth Government. 
I wanted to make those statements about the philosophical approach shown in the second reading speeches to these Bills rather than to criticise the Bills themselves. The Bills must be passed - otherwise what would happen to the States? What would happen to the people in those States if they were not passed? Outside those few people who live in the Australian Capital Territory and the Territories, the revenue of this country comes from the people represented by the State governments. I suggest that much of the dissension and many of the problems that have forced the Democratic Labor Party to try to bring on debates in this chamber on CommonwealthState financial relationships would not have eventuated if the Commonwealth had dropped this pose of Santa Claus when meeting the normal everyday commitments that it has to meet. If those commitments are aggravated by circumstances in the economy over which the Commonwealth has no control or circumstances over which the Commonwealth does have control, it is not an act of generosity by the Commonwealth to do what has to be done; it is a practical necessity for the whole of Australia. I believe that if we approach the matter with that, philosophy many of the things that have disrupted Commonwealth-State financial relationships will begin to disappear and the Commonwealth will meet its commitments to the people of Australia through their State Governments more realistically than through the method it is adopting at the moment, namely, pretending that every time the Commonwealth meets the financial commitments of the States it has gone out like Santa Claus with bags filled with gifts that it did not have to give. The money belongs to the people of Australia. We in the Commonwealth Parliament are privileged to help to manage it. The Government, in particular, is in the very special circumstance of having not only the privilege but also the enormous responsibility. If the Commonwealth fails to some extent in carrying out that responsibility of properly managing the economy in order to give a stable price and wage level, it should not present itself as the giver of great gifts because it meets the situation. We hope that the Bills will pass. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party congratulates the Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare on its report to the Senate. It has been in our hands for some 1 2 months. We have examined it. We have not been privileged to serve on the Committee because of the pressures of the committee system which makes it impossible for a party with the representation which we have to serve on all committees. Wc were happy to be able to vacate a place on this Committee so that  Senator Turnbull,  who has much expertise in the field, could take a place and help the Committee with its work. 1 have no doubt that he contributed enormously to the successful work which the Committee has carried out. I join in the remarks of the other speakers, particularly the concluding remarks made by  Senator Brown  which, to some extent, did not match up with his earlier remarks. He said that to some extent this field of the mentally and physically handicapped was a forgotten field. I rather liked his concluding remarks. They gave some recognition to the enormous demands which are made and to the responsibility which has to go to meeting the obvious need that there is in this area. 
One has only to cast one's mind back to the days of one's youth to realise that many of the cases which are now recognised - particularly in mental retardation in children - were not even diagnosed 30 or 40 years ago - as recently as that. 
It is only recently that we have had the medical knowledge and the expertise to be able to guide us, even if we had the money and wanted to spend it in this direction. Today it would be a tragedy to be moved too much by our emotions to try to assist to the fullest possible degree all those who are handicapped in any way at all and leave nothing to be spent on the very necessary research which leads to prevention and which adds to our knowledge of the whole problem. I think that this has been one of the very good features of the Committee's report. It is a very balanced report. The Committee has not run away with itself and tried to find areas of condemnation for what has not been done. I do not think that any of us should do that because I think we all concede as Australians that, whatever we think politically and whatever we disagree with politically, either in this House or in another place, we would want to do the maximum possible, taking cognisance of the other responsibilities of government in this field. In reading the report  1  was somewhat taken with the statement that  95  per cent of children born in Victoria were taken to baby health centres. I would not think that that would be the percentage that would apply throughout Australia. I bow to the evidence which the Committee has heard. It has quoted the evidence received to indicate that the percentage in Victoria is as high as that. But probably Victoria is the most densely populated State of the Commonwealth because of its size. Therefore these facilities are more readily available to more people than they would be in many other States. The sheer physical facts of geography probably prevent many people who would otherwise take babies to baby health centres from attending. But even  5  per cent of the children in Victoria are not regularly taken to baby health centres. 
One field alone which is well in my mind where early diagnosis and immediate attention can relieve a situation enor- mously is the field of deaf children. 1 notice that the report states that this would usually show itself - that is in those cases where babies are not having some form of supervision such as at a baby health centre - within 2 years. But a much earlier diagnosis than 2 years is enormously important in understanding that a baby is deaf because treatment in these cases can be so successful. This is not a case where the handicap is such that it cannot be treated. Indeed, almost complete normality can be obtained. Early diagnosis is one of the most important needs. In a society such as ours we accept child endowment as being a proper thing. Yet, in Victoria where 5 per cent of the children do not attend public health centres there would not be 5 per cent on whose behalf child endowment is not collected. But even the payment of child endowment should not be made mandatory. An age should be fixed by the medical profession as being the proper age at which a child should be medically examined. Every child to be eligible for child endowment should be subject, free of charge, to such an examination. If necessary it should be paid for by the Commonwealth. I justify this suggestion with the last words used by  Senator Brown  that this would be an investment not a payment as far as the Commonwealth is concerned. Every child should be medically examined at one, 2 or 3 months or in accordance with professional and expert advice. 

 Senator Turnbull would know better than I the age to fix. But I would believe that some time in the 3 months of life after the baby has left hospital with the mother - if it were born in a hospital - it should be taken for a complete check over and tested for such things as deafness. The situation should not be permitted to exist that 5 per cent of babies in Victoria could have a hearing defect which may not be discovered until the child is 2 years old. I would not object to the use of the steamroller by saying that child endowment will be available only to those parents who bring their children in for a medical inspection at a specific age. I would agree to the use of that method in the interests of the children themselves. If good cause could be shown why that should not be done, I would impose some penalty on the parents of a child who was not brought in. 
It is only in very recent years that medical science has turned its attention to the study of malnutrition, including post natal malnutrition, and how it can affect the mental processes of a child as it grows. A child which suffers from malnutrition in the first 12 years of its life may be handicapped for the rest of its life. Many people in the medical profession say that a child can be handicapped as a result of not receiving .sufficient protein in its early years. As I have said, the medical profession is only just beginning to undertake thorough research into the likely effects of something like that on a child. For those reasons, I think it is important for children to be examined medically in their formative years. It is very important that that should be done, no matter what we as a community have to put up with in the form of some compulsion being exerted upon us. After all it would be no sacrifice for those who decide not to take their children to a public health centre or who are discouraged from doing so because they live a long distance away from one to make sure that a complete medical examination is made of their children 3 or 6 months after they are born or at a particular time at which the medical profession considers it is possible for any of the abnormalities to which I have been referring to be diagnosed. Any treatment which was necessary could begin immediately. In that way a child which has an ailment such as deafness would miss no more than is absolutely necessary the enormously creative years when the brain is capable of absorbing so much. 
I turn my attention now to other matters which have been referred to in the report. The most tragic thing which is happening today and which is not receiving the publicity it should receive is that a large number of people are becoming paraplegics as the result of preventable motor car accidents. A neighbour of mine - a young girl in her early twenties - is a paraplegic. She has made a statement which I think is quite shocking. She has said that her greatest ambition now is to be again able to drive a fast car. I can understand the spirit of challenge in which she would make an utterance such as that, but a fast car was the cause of the condition in which she is today. To think that the only ambition she has in life is to drive another fast car is a shocking thing to me, but perhaps some of us would react in that way to such tragic circumstances. lt is a fact that statistics are provided of the death toll on the roads as a result of motor car accidents in particular. The publicity that is being concentrated on this subject by a particular newspaper in the State of Victoria has enabled that State to accomplish quite a considerable reduction in the death toll on its roads in the last 12 months. 1 would like to know the extent to which this publicity has resulted in a reduction in the number of people who would have become crippled for life as the result of a motor car accident, lt seems to me that the chances are almost equal of dying in a serious motor car accident or of being crippled for life. The statistics about the number of lives which are lost as the result of a motor car accident are shocking to us. I think that the statistics about the number of people who become paraplegic as the result of such accidents would be equally as shocking and would help to throw a lot of weight oil the prevention side of this problem. That is why I think it would be foolish for us to go into an institution for those who become paraplegics as the result of car accidents - T understand that money is being raised to try to establish such an institution in Victoria - and allow our emotions to sweep us away and say that we must spend as much as we can on alleviating the tragedy of these unfortunate people without thinking about spending a proportionate sum on endeavouring to ensure that the number of persons who enter such institutions is reduced as much as is humanly possible. I point out again that no matter what we are able to devote out of our national economy to this purpose we must always keep our sense of balance and ensure that the not so obvious aspects of research and prevention are given due accord. 
Another point which has been highlighted in the report and which I hope the Government will take up post-haste is the part that the imposition of a means test on the incomes of handicapped people plays in preventing them from making the enormous attempt, as it is to them, of becoming members of the community again in a true sense and of working at some form of employment for their own wellbeing as well as the wellbeing of the rest of the community. The only certainty to a person whose life has been completely shattered and who is facing the challenge of trying to rehabilitate himself is the income he will derive from the pension which will be payable to him. The acquisition of a skill that would never be the skill attained by that person if be were not so handicapped becomes rather hazardous to handicapped persons because they know that any income resulting from the application of such a skill after they have acquired it may affect the basic pension rate to which they are entitled. In that way the means test, instead of becoming a protection to the public purse, could become an encouragement not to try. The discouragement is probably not quite as obvious to those of us who have not had to face the challenge as it is to anybody who has been through the situation of seeing before him years in which he realises that he is handicapped by comparison to other people in the community; yet these people are being asked to learn skills that may interfere with their right to the basic subsistence income which the pension provides to them. 
I do not think that the public purse should be protected in this way. Indeed, it would be a very worthwhile investment of public funds if people who are so handicapped were to know right from the very beginning that the pension they get is, as with the example stated in the report of a pension to a blind person, theirs by right to balance their life alongside another person who is not so handicapped, that we as a community accept a responsibility towards their handicap and that we will help to adjust the difference between ourselves and them by the payment of a certain amount to begin with and what they earn over and above that is theirs by right. Indeed, paraplegics have to cope with many large expenses that a normal person would never incur. That in itself is a justifiable reason why the public purse should help to spread the load over the whole of the community. After all not every paraplegic is in that position because he wished to drive a fast car. Many of them are in it because someone else wanted to drive a fast car. I believe that we should try to rehabilitate them into our community and that the means test in this respect could well be forgotten. 
I conclude my remarks by congratulating the members of the Committee for the report which they have presented. It is a very worthwhile report on a subject about which we still know and understand all too little. I congratulate all of the governments which have in the last 30 or 40 years made a contribution to this field of endeavour. I look forward to mankind becoming still further emancipated and moving into an age where the problems in this field can be more easily overcome because of our capacity to produce and hope that the foundation work which has been laid by this very fine and worthy report will continue. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise aware that 'The Little Red Schoolbook' has been adjudged obscene by a magistrate in Victoria? As obscenity is one of the reasons for which the Commonwealth bounty on the printing of books can be refused, is the Minister yet in a position to answer my question of 26th April as to whether or not the book bounty is to be paid to the printer of 'The Little Red Schoolbook'? Failing immediate information, can an answer be expected before the Senate rises? 
I will not take up the time that the 2 previous speakers took in this debate because I do not pose as an expert in the dairying industry. I merely wish to convey to the Senate the approval of the Democratic Labor Party of the Bills now before the Senate. Obviously these Bills were introduced because they were desired by the dairying industry. That does not mean that every dairy farmer would be in total agreement with all the propositions contained in them; it would be a strange Australia if they were. There are conflicting interests in this industry just as there are in all other industries, but in the main it is very obvious that the dairying industry needs this sort of thing. It needs this legislation if it is to compete in the very sophisticated world dairy products market. It certainly needs the assistance of a properly constituted body such as the Australian Dairy Produce Board. I think the Board has been an enormous advantage to the industry over the years. 
I have one or two complaints to draw to the attention of the Senate. I have perused the most recent report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board and in it there is a photograph of a Japanese store with a great display of cheese, together with the information that we export 32 per cent of Japan's total imports of cheese  -  10,782 metric tons. In the report there is another photograph showing a gift that was made to the Federal parliamentary dining room. That gift is a cheese counter which at present is in the members' dining room. The only thing wrong is that one never sees any cheese on it. I wonder whether the display counters in the stores in Japan are treated in the same manner in which we treat this gift in the parliamentary dining room? If they were I wonder whether the sale of Australian cheese in Japan would total 10,000 metric tons yearly, as it does today, or a similar negligible quantity such as we see displayed in the parliamentary dining room? I do not want to be a carping critic,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  but if the cheese counter on display in the members' dining room is not creating sufficient interest to warrant being kept there, what would be wrong with moving it into the guests' dining room? It may stimulate the minds of people who dine there into deciding to have cheese at the conclusion of their meal rather than sweets. Probably cheese would be better for their health. Displaying this gift there may help promote a truly Australian cheese industry. If we cannot use this gift in the parliamentary dining room it should be given to someone else. I have no doubt that a livewire manager of a top class restaurant would be delighted to have it so that he could promote the sale in his establishment of a product from which considerable profits are to be made. 
Having made that criticism of ourselves I want to draw attention to some of the facts as I see them and particularly to some of those which have emerged during this debate. I do not want to introduce a new cliche but I suggest that when one works in an industry or is committed to an industry one tends to make a holy cow out of it. I do not think that, for its own good, we should make a holy cow of the dairy industry. I do not believe that it should be protected from criticism, from competition, and from this, that and the other. I have heard remarks which indicate that there would be an attitude of complete despondency in Australia if at some time we had to co-operate with New Zealand perhaps during a period when we were exporting more than we should. By that I mean that we would have to maintain our home markets for dairy products by importing from New Zealand. 
This takes my mind back to a period in history when New Zealand sent a representative to the original conference called to form the Commonwealth of Australia. The gentleman sent to represent New Zealand died on the boat on the way home. According to history he was returning with the intention of reporting favourably on the suggestion that New Zealand should be part of the Commonwealth of Australia. 
Because of the transport available in those days it was impossible to get another man here in time to make a survey and to submit a report to the people of New Zealand. In all probability New Zealand would have been a State of the Commonwealth of Australia because it was suggested that the report was very favourable to New Zealand joining the Commonwealth. 
We live in the Pacific area. This nation is the largest and most prosperous in that area and it must accept more responsibility for our smaller neighbours in the years to come. The country that must share that responsibility with us is New Zealand because she is much more developed than Fiji, Samoa and the other Pacific countries. In the next  5  years New Zealand will be faced with a period of stress that we in this country will not face. We fear the circumstances that will develop as a result of Britain entering the European Economic Community but what it will mean to Australia is as nothing compared to what it will mean to New Zealand. 
To look at the effect of Britain's entry on this particular industry alone it is necessary to look at the figures. New Zealand, small as it is and with a population much smaller than that of Australia, exceeds us in the production of many dairy products. As the total economy of New Zealand is so much smaller than ours, one must appreciate the enormous importance it will be to her to lose many of the European markets on which her industry has been built. Perhaps we will have a choice in the near future. For those reasons I advocate that no matter what industry we are considering we must not create an attitude of prejudice towards New Zealand. Rather we should have a relationship which is in the interests of both countries. New Zealand cannot be allowed to become a poverty stricken neighbour of Australia, and she must have opportunities to help her through the difficult period that will face her in the next 5 to 10 years. Because of absolute necessity, there must be a great deal of help from Australia. 
I agree with  Senator Webster  that it would seem from the figures that there are several States in Australia that are more attuned to the production of dairy products than others. I accept the figures he quoted because they come from the report of the Australian Dairy Produce Board. I interjected while he was speaking and asked him to tell us the average production in New Zealand per cow as compared with the Australian figure. I did so in order that we would not be led to comparing only  2  States in Australia with the average production in New Zealand. From the information that  Senator Webster  provided honourable senators must certainly conclude that the capacity of New Zealand to produce dairy products efficiently is much greater than that of many of the States of Australia. I am not advocating that we interfere with our Australian industry in any way. But I believe that, as with many other industries, because of the entirely new world marketing setup that will exist in this industry we have a period of adjustment through which we must go. I think that we must sensibly guide our industries through this period in co-operation with those countries which are our immediate neighbours and whose survival is almost as much a matter of importance and interest to us as is our own survival. 
We do not want to hold a fixed idea that we are forever competitors and must succeed irrespective of whatever happens to the industries of a comparable and neighbouring country such as New Zealand. We will have to accept some responsibility to assist if New Zealand's difficulties become intolerable for her, as we are the only people who really have a self-interest in seeing that New Zealand is not destroyed in an economic sense by the enormously difficult problems - they are even greater than ours - that she will inherit from the change of marketing patterns in the United Kingdom. I congratulate the Australian Dairy Produce Board on the work it has done. I notice that the statistical evidence in the Board's report lists the countries of production of dairy products, the countries to which we export and the quantities that are exported. I have no desire to read them in the Senate. But it seems to me to be significant that the Board has listed  77  countries to which we export cheese. I suggest that we pause tor a moment to think how we would ever penetrate the markets of so many countries without an authority such as the Australian Dairy Produce Board. 
Several of the examples quoted are very interesting. Among them is the tremendous increase in the export of cheese to Japan that has taken place in the last 3 years. The amount of cheese exported to Japan has risen from 5,773 tons to 10,974 tons. Also on the encouraging side there is the example of a small country, Taiwan, which has very good trading relations with Australia. Australian cheese exports to Taiwan almost doubled from 32 tons in 1967-68 to 61 tons in 1970-71. On the disappointing side, among the very much smaller markets is Laos. We can understand the reasons for this. In 1967-68 we had only a toe-hold in Laos. We sent 2 tons of cheese to that country, but have been unable to send any more cheese since then. The situation in Cambodia is no different. In my view there is one very important omission here. Possibly there would be others. I mention this because I was in the country recently. The consumption of our cheese in Japan has doubled in 3 years. But South Korea, which has a population of 35 million and which has a very deep affection for this country because of the role we played in its struggle against the unwarranted aggression of the Russian-backed North Koreans some years ago, does not import any cheese at all from Australia. I do not know whether that country imports cheese or whether its people have developed a taste for it. 
I mention that country to show the very important markets that probably can still be tapped in South East Asia. If a market does not already exist in this area, possibly a market could be created, particularly if we spread around a few more cheese trolleys and they were used, which is not the case with the one in our parliamentary dining room. South Korea, with its 35 million people, offers enormous prospects for Australian primary products. I believe that we should be developing an interest in those markets as they are markets which are available to us today and ones where the very high shipping costs are of least danger to us because the distances to them are shorter. They are the ones that we can develop. I notice in examining the details of the staff of the Australian Dairy Produce Board that included as a member of the staff is a  Mr M.  Okazaki. I imagine from  Mr Okazaki's  name that he is of 
Japanese origin. It seems to me to be  a  very sensible procedure for the Board to adopt to have on its staff somebody from a country in which we are trying to develop, and so successfully developing, new markets for the products. 
It is true that much of this success is dependent on the improvement in the standard of living and the prosperity of these countries. When Japan was emerging from the last war and was in a rather parlous situation, American capital and know-how coming into the country unquestionably brought to the attention of the Japanese people the very high nutritional value and high protein content of foods such as cheese and milk products. The position now is that the children whose school lunches were then prepared, perhaps more with the idea of keeping them alive than of lifting their standard of health, have now grown to be the purchasers in Japan. They recognise the value of these products. In that there may be a lesson for a country such as Australia. Indeed, I think that it may be a good venture, when we are wondering what to do with our surplus stocks of dairy products, to invest some of them in, if not free distribution, almost free distribution, particularly to school children in the less well-to-do countries that may in the very near future develop an economy which will enable them to become customers for these products. 
In developing this industry in Australia we went through phases when it had tremendous problems. Those problems have developed with the industry. We can only expect that. A 5-year plan is now suggested. We started these plans back in 1947. It would be remarkable if what was suitable for 1947 was still suitable in this country today. We have changed a lot since 1947. I have no doubt that in the next 20 to 30 years we will change just as much. I think it is very necessary to keep an industry such as this in a state in which it is prepared to meet each challenge. Otherwise it will fall behind. The necessary drive may be lost from what has made a scheme successful in one period. The circumstances will change and the approach to various problems as they develop will need to change. The report contains the suggestion that there should be a quota system. I am not sufficiently expert in my knowledge of the industry to express an opinion about that. But it has been illustrated that in the marketing of primary products - this applies to many other industries - we just cannot have haphazard production. If we do, we have haphazard marketing. When our goods are competing against themselves for a limited market that is available, the industry as such can  be destroyed. My only point about this is that we should not approach any of these schemes with prejudice because they have not been used previously; nor should we approach them with the idea that, because they succeeded in meeting a situation of a day and age of 5 or 10 years ago, they will of necessity be successful today. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party believes that these Bills represent a reasonable approach, as suggested by the industry. We recognise the internal problems that exist between the butter fat and export industry and the whole milk industry. The solution may be, as has been suggested, to spread the whole milk industry over the whole of the dairy industry, irrespective of how far the farmers may be from the centres of large distribution and irrespective of the capacity of each farmer and his problem of maintaining a constant supply of milk to the market, which is so essential in a whole milk industry - not from season to season but from day to day. That is the philosophy and principle behind the contracts that go with the supply of whole milk. 
I take no sides in the controversy that goes on in the dairying industry over these things, but I would not subscribe to the view that anybody in the dairying industry will receive benefits if those, who are prosperous in their own right are induced to become dependent upon the type of assistance which, quite rightly, has to be conceded to those who are producing in competition with countries which have cheaper production costs, cheaper labour costs and even cheaper land values than we have. Theses factors make it necessary that assistance by the community as a whole be granted to those who are producing wholly and solely for an export market. I believe that those are minor problems when compared with the overall problems such as the need for the industry to compete successfully on world markets. The Bills are in the interests of the people in the industry, according to those who seem to be representative of the industry. We propose to support the Bills as they stand. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. In view Of the assurance given to me by him last week that I would receive an answer to question No. 2144 relating to the payment pf bounty on the printing of The Little Red Schoolbook' before the session ends and the fact that I see no mention of the Answer on the notice paper today, can the 
Minister inform me whether I can expect an answer tomorrow, the last day of the sitting? If not, will I be given the reasons as to why this question was too difficult to answer? 
This Bill is one of the important pieces of legislation that Parliament is called upon to discuss. In the matter of conciliation and arbitration, Australia has passed through various stages in a rather short period of history. At one time we probably were far in advance of the rest of the world in relation to the concept of conciliation and arbitration. I think that to some extent we are rather lagging in that regard today. To understand the Bill one has to go back over the history, since the Industrial Revolution, of the need for legislation to control industrial affairs. In the social history of mankind it is not so very long ago that there were no legal rights in terms of employment and no legal rights to organise as a trade union. All these things were subject to chance. One has only to read of the conditions that existed in Great Britain 80 to 100 years a£0 to realise the dreadful conditions that were a manifestation of all that was low in conditions that developed out of the Industrial Revolution. In the coal mines of England there were employed pregnant women, children of  6  years of age and younger. Children who were just out of the babes-in-arms stage were given small tasks in the spinning mills of England of that day. 
It is very interesting to go back  100  or  120  years only and read in the Hansards of Great Britain the speeches that were made by members of the legislature of that country when propositions were before the Parliament to relieve the dreadful industrial conditions that had developed out of the first attempts at modern-type industrial produtcion, with no recourse to the legality of controlling wages and conditions in the industrial enterprises. The early legislation was sponsored by reformers. Some had a religious background. Many who had a religious background opposed the reforms because of the poverty that would result in the families in which children of  6  and  7  years of age were holding down jobs for  10  hours a day  6  days a week. These reformers were sufficiently religious to demand that the children be allowed off on Sundays so that they could devote that day to religious devotions. They saw the awful tragedy of poverty that would be aggravated in the families if these mites, these little children, were taken out of industry. I think that quite sincere men in their day and time, with only the knowledge that they had of that period to guide them, made very sincere speeches along those lines. Today we would laugh at the possibility of similar events occurring again and we would cry over the cruelty to these children who were just out of the babesinarms stage whose lives were twisted and sacrified in the interests of manufacturing goods that were leading to the greater prosperity of the people. 
So we progressed from that stage, and Australia was part of the progression because in the early days of settlement of this country some of the people who were sent here from England as criminals were people who had been audacious enough to try to form industrial organisations to protect themselves and their families from the circumstances that can so obviously emanate from a completely undisciplined and uncontrolled community with no laws to guide it in relation to manufacturing and other industries, whether they be coal mines, boot factories, spinning mills or the more modern versions that we have today. Australia's industrial history probably began with the people who were refugees from the type of oppression that developed against those who dared to organise for as industrial voice and to formulate unions. People like those who were referred to as the Tolpuddle martyrs were sent to this country as criminals because of their audacious activities in trying to form a kind of industrial protection. As trade unions exist today, we would not think that the type of organisation that they were trying to construct was of a particularly militant character. It would probably be criticised today for being an extreme right wing organisation. 
In this country we moved very quickly through the stages of recognition of trade unions to the stage at which the unions were the main campaigners and the main architects of an industrial conciliation and arbitration system. I recognise, as earlier unionists did, their absolute right to organise as a trade union - that right was challenged in this country, too - and to have a legal award, a wage that was theirs by right of legality in the community. They were joined by many in the employer class. Because of the open slather - if I could use the vernacular - in industrial relations, it was easy to illustrate to many employers that ultimately the intense competition to obtain more production while paying less wages to employees reduced their industrial enterprises to a stale of profitability in which the margin very often was not sufficient for them to survive in a highly competitive type community. Certain persons were forced, perhaps by the circumstances of the industry, to pay a higher wage than other persons who could get cheap labour because they had access to female labour in large quantities and so could pay less. This situation applied particularly in the early clothing trade industries in this country. Employers began to realise that this type of competition ultimately reduced their possibilities of success. While there was resistance from employer classes to the setting up of a legal background for the payment of wages and the provision of conditions of labour that was beyond question, the resistance was not total. 
From this situation there was established a system of conciliation and arbitration which, at the point of time of its introduction and for many years after, was probably superior to that which existed in any part of the world. Australia can be said to have led the world in numerical strength of trade unionists per capita and in the arbitration and conciliation structure that it had created. As industry changed as it inevitably will, and as politics throughout the world began to develop along different lines, these things that had been established by labour, by sensible employers and by good governments came under challenge. They came under challenge not necessarily from the employer class because the employer class settled down with arbitration and found that it was not a bad thing for everyone else in their competitive industry to be paying what they paid. If they had conceded specific hours and conditions to the workers in their plants they knew that those hours and conditions also were being conceded in other plants that were competing for existing markets. Therefore, to be profitable they had to resort to increasing efficiency, to regularising production and to embarking upon a programme of development. Employers found that this was much better than endeavouring to find profitability in the exploitation of labour because in the final analysis those who were their labour were also their market. The impoverishment of their labour force to improve their profits was one thing but the impoverishment of their labour force and ultimately their market could very readily create a situation in which the impoverishment was so great that there would be no market for their goods. 
Employers in general settled down with a system of conciliation and arbitration which they considered to be a wise way in which to regulate the tremendous improvement in the standards which were available to everybody and which could emanate from the industrial circumstances of the day, whose beginning has been described as the industrial revolution. It was found in the beginning that challenges to the arbitration system came more from employers than from employees. If we cast our minds back - and I have always been interested in politics - we note that one challenge which was levelled at the arbitration set-up of this country, which was so valued by the workers of the day resulted in the defeat of a Prime Minister of this country.  Sir Robert  Bruce was defeated by the then Secretary of the Melbourne Trades Hall Council,  Mr Holloway.  This defeat took place in a blue ribbon electorate, portion of which is represented by the present Minister for Labour and National Service,  Mr Phillip  Lynch. 
 I am sorry, it was Stanley Bruce. I mixed him up with a Scot of another day. I presume that honourable senators will forgive me for that slip of the tongue. To continue the history of the trade union movement, we began to find that challenges to arbitration and conciliation started to come from another organised force in the community. This was a political force; it was the growing political force of communism throughout the community. That force saw in the stability of conciliation and arbitration which provided legally regularised wages and conditions a reasonable set-up that could not be exploited. In contrast, in some other countries which did not enjoy the system that had been developed in Australia it was an easy matter for communist organisations to batten on the poverty and the disorganised life of the communities that were living without these advantages. The conciliation and arbitration system constituted one of the principal barriers to the success of communism in Australia. 
 There were many strikes before the advent of the Communist Party. There were many big strikes to establish the arbitration system. There were strikes during the currency of the arbitration system itself before strikes were organised by the communists. There will always be strikes. We can have a strike for an industrial reason or because of an industrial injustice which can even apply under the best regulated systems of arbitration. But it is a different matter when there is a politically inspired and organised strike which is called for no other purpose than to destroy the system which has been created to regularise industry, wages and conditions.  Senator Cavanagh  suggested that big strikes took place before communist activity and therefore the communists could not be blamed. 
I do not suggest that it does destroy my argument because I propose to produce some evidence to substantiate my argument. I do not want to quote my own experiences although as a former trade union official I could do so. I was an extreme right winger, whatever that may mean, but I remember when employers considered me to be an extreme left winger although I do not think anyone has had the temerity to suggest that I was at any time pro-communist in any way. I want to turn back to a particular period in our industrial history when the first revelations were being made which produced the evidence that the Communist Party, as an organised political force not only in this country but throughout the world, was dedicated to a programme which had as one of its ambitions in this country the destruction of the conciliation and arbitration system that had been developed here. 
I want to refresh the minds of honourable senators on the legislation that was brought down in this country, not by a boss's government or a conservative government, but by a Labour government. I refer to the time when the last Labor Government under the leadership of the late Ben Chifley was in office. I wish to refer to a quotation from a speech made in this place by  Senator Mckenna,  who was at that time the leader of the Australian Labor Party in this chamber. The speech to which I refer was made during the debate on the National Emergency (Coal Strike) Bill that was brought down on 29th June 1949. Even that date is significant because this legislation was in answer to a strike which was called in the coal mining industry of this country by a resolution carried, I think, on 16th June to be put into effect on 27th June. After the strike had been current for only 2 days a Labor Government found it necessary to introduce legislation into this place to protect not only the people of the nation but the arbitration system of this country. After 2 days of a strike the Labor Government had sufficient evidence to justify producing before this Parliament legislation to slop the destruction of the arbitration system of this country by the Communist Party, as Labor men of the day labelled it. and to save the people from the repercussions that could develop from that strike.  Senator Mckenna  in presenting the measure before this chamber said: 
The measure which is now before the Senate has been introduced because of the attitude and actions of the unions concerned, which I can only describe as wholly unjustified, entirely unprecedented, and calculated to strike a most serious blow at the entire economy of this country. The circumstances in which the strike was occurred must be viewed against the background of a statement made by the leader of the Miners' Federation a month ago. I have with me a newspaper report of that statement, which, incidentally, has never been contradicted, so far as I am  aware,  by the individual who made it. That statement was as follows:- 

 Senator McKenna then quoted the newspaper report of a statement made by the leader of the Miners Federation who was a member of the Communist Party.  Senator McKenna  then went on to state: 
Only a few months ago the Central Council of Miners' Federation declared: 'This council places on record again that the federation never has and never will accept arbitration as the desirable method of settling industrial disputes. We point out that the whole history of the Arbitration Courts in Australia reveals their role is to keep down living standards as low as possible and that their decisions are always influenced directly or indirectly by industrial strength and political pressures . . . Slavish adherence to Arbitration Courts would lead to a serious weakening of unions, since they would depend upon the decisions of judges instead of their own organ.sations.' 
That is a matter of opinion. In the course of this debate I heard  Senator Bishop,  a colleague of  Senator Cavanagh's,  telling us of the desirability of preserving the arbitration system as such. 
I am quoting from 1949. I propose to quote further from the speech made when legislation was brought down in that instance because I think it has a very deep relationship to the Bill now before the Senate. Many of the things contained in this piece of legislation were also found necessary under the circumstances of emergency applying at that time. I refer specifically to a matter which I understand received some prominence in the debate in the other place and that is that a registered organisation is required to reveal the circumstances of its banking. This is said to be an unwarranted intrusion into the privacy of the organisation. I do not know that that is a very valid argument. Any organised business has the name of its bank on any cheque which it issues. In most cases a trade union shows the bank with which it banks on any cheque it issues. 
Lel us remember that any union can avoid disclosing these facts. If it has no desire to use the advantages which flow from arbitration and conciliation, it need not register with the Court at all. It can become an organisation outside the ambit of the system of conciliation and arbitration. There is no real compulsion, is there? The Bill only states that if an organisation wants the advantages, it must make certain disclosures to show that it accepts the responsibilities that go with the advantages. I shall quote what was said by an expert who will be acceptable to honourable senators opposite, particularly  Senator Cavanagh,  because the expert, on this occasion, is none other than the late Rt  Hon.  H. V. Evatt who introduced the legislation at that time in the other place. He stresses the importance of clause 10. I quote from page 1676 of the 1949 Hansard as follows:   . . the importance of clause 10 which vests in the Registrar of the Arbitration Court, or a person authorised by him, power to inspect any books, documents or other papers of an organisation or branch of an organisation for the purpose of ascertaining whether there has been a breach of any of the provisions of the legislation. For the purpose of such inspection, the Registrar is authorised to enter premises of the organisation if he believes such books, documents or papers to be there. He is also given authority to require a person - that means any person - to produce or deliver to him, in accordance with his requirement, any such books, documents or papers in the possession or under the control of that person. That is all for the purpose of determining and ascertaining whether, in his opinion, there has been a breach of the provisions of the measure. 
The Registrar's opinion that there has been a breach will not decide the legal responsibility, but these provisions can place the authorities in possession of the necessary evidence. Penalties are provided for a refusal to comply with the requirements of the Registrar. 
I am leaving it to the ALP to say for itself. I believe that in the course of this legislation it can clearly be shown that many of the attitudes adopted today by the Labor Party are the attitudes that have been adopted by the Communist Party for 20-odd years of our industrial history in its attempts to destroy conciliation and arbitration. This is one of the barriers which exists to the complete takeover of industrial organisations which the Communist Party feels it can accomplish in our industrial movement. The Democratic Labor Party does not suggest that the legislation which is before the Senate is the type of legislation that it would produce. We are not the Government. We believe that there is ample evidence to show that the Conciliation and Arbitration Act at this time requires overhaul and that it should be more or less restructured to suit modern circumstances and to meet the attacks of those seeking to destroy the system. The Government has produced what it believes is a measure that will be effective. Time itself will prove whether it will be. Indeed, we have some reservations as to whether this Bill will be sufficient. We believe that a system of conciliation and arbitration will work only if those within the ambit of the system attempt to make it work. Regulations which are written into enactments will not make conciliation and arbitration effective if those involved set out deliberately to see that it does not work. This legislation by its very nature will attract success only if both sides set out to make it work and enter into the spirit of the Act. We are not sure whether the amendment before us at the present time will do that. In some respects we have reservations. 
However, we recognise that there have been enormous changes in the industrial structure. There have been changes in the work force. The modern computer age is switching labour from what was once broadly described as the blue collar workers to the white collar workers. In industry today white collar workers exceed blue collar workers for the first time in the history of man. This must of necessity make a great deal of difference to the structure of our arbitration system. Today 40 per cent of our total work force are women. That too is a new factor that has to be given consideration. There are those who say that direct bargaining is preferable to arbitration from the unions' point of view. The communists in particular are seeking to destroy the system of conciliation and arbitration. They make very much of the success which can be attained by a method of direct bargaining by unions. They never mention that in the 1930s the unions' power of direct bargaining was practically non-existent because of the economic circumstances of the day. 
Presuming that we always have conditions as we have at the moment perhaps, from a union point of view, direct bargaining could or could not be successful. But while criticising the idea that direct bargaining in its entirety must of necessity play a part in conciliation and arbitration, can it take over from a circumstance of conciliation and arbitration? 1 am reminded of the attitude expressed on 2 occasions by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate,  Senator Murphy.  He was almost enraged. Certainly here one night he raised, with great indignation, the question of the demands which were being made by the Australian Air Pilots Association. Under modern circumstances, in an industry structured as the airline industry is, with enormous capital outlay, there is tremendous power in the hands of a few to obtain a lot by direct bargaining.  Senator Murphy  was tremendously incensed that the Association should have the audacity even to place the claims before the employers. He drew attention to the fact that the success of those claims materially defeated the ambitions of those in the less glamorous jobs in the airways industry of receiving industrial justice. I hope that  Senator Murphy  in his contribution to this debate will not tell us that direct bargaining is the answer to all the questions of trade unionism as the Communist Party does and as 1 have heard members of the Labor Party in this chamber repeat almost as a slogan. 
The other occasion was only the other night when  Senator Murphy  again expressed tremendous indignation that the medical profession of this country had had the effrontery to use its direct bargaining power to suggest that it was entitled to an increase in fees. He failed to produce a logical argument. He did not explain to the Senate how other professions, whose members have a similar educational background to that of medical practitioners, would have acted. Perhaps I could instance  Senator Murphy's  own profession. What would lawyers get by way of direct bargaining if they were called upon to visit a client for an hour in the middle of the night to give legal advice? With some knowledge of legal fees, though 1 have been involved only seldom in legal matters, and as a former trade union official, 1 do not think that a Queen's Counsel- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Withers)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
 But he is always better when he gets some. 
Whom do you see looking? 
 And they all voted on ballot papers, too. 
 But shopkeepers are workers too. You have been a shopkeeper in your day. Do not tell me that you were not a worker when you were a shopkeeper. 
I am helping you. 
But you urged that Thomas Nationwide Transport and Ansett Transport Industries should not merge. 
Would you expect the high rise buildings to be going down? They have to go up. 
 And that he gets his ballot paper. 
Perhaps we should abandon compulsory Federal elections. 
asked the Minister representing  the  Minister  for  Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Does the Commonwealth pay book bounty on locally produced books of one quarter of the cost of production of each book. 
Has the Commonwealth already paid book bounty on so-called sex manuals such as 'Intercourse', 'Ways of Loving' and 'Call Girl'; if so, what is (a) the cost of production per book, (b) the amount of bounty paid per book, and (c) the retail price of each book. 
Can the Minister confirm reports that his Department has given verbal approval for book bountyto be paid on 'The Little Red Schoolbook', and that its estimated cost of production, on which bounty will be paid, is 19 cents per copy, and that its retail price is $1.75. 
Can book bounty be refused on a book which is blasphemous, indecent or obscene or unduly emphasises matters of sex, horror, violence or crime, or is likely to encourage depravity. 
Does the Minister consider that 'The Little Red School book', and the so-called sex manuals listed above, merit book bounties of 25 per cent of the cost of production paid out of the taxpayer's money when there is such a large margin between costs and retail price. 

 Senator COTTON - The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. Under the Book Bounty Act bounty may be paid on a book containing 49 or more printed or illustrated pages, which must not contain certain advertising, and which is printed and bound in Australia other than by the Commonwealth or a State. 
The Act provides that bounty is not payable in respect of a book if the printing or publishing of the book by a person, or the sending by a person of the book through the post, constitutes or would constitute an offence by the person against a law of the Commonwealth. 
Yes. It has also refused bounty on a number of books, including 'Lesbian Capers', 'Jay Birds in Love', 'Weekend Love' and 'Girls in Love'. 
and (b) The Book Bounty Act provides for an annual return to Parliament showing the number of books produced each year on which bounty has been paid or is payable, the name, address and the amount of bounty paid or payable to each claimant. The particulars sought by the honourable senator are confidential between the printer and the Department of Customs and Excise. 
The retail price is not a factor in book bounty and therefore this information is not available from the Department. 
Book bounty has been paid on a first printing of 'The Little Red Schoolbook'. Applications for payment of bounty on further printings are pending. 
See answer (1) above. 
The book bounty is a temporary measure designed to assist the Australian book production industry pending the completion of a Tariff Board inquiry into the industry. It is not designed to assist publishers. Payment of bounty is in no way related to the merit of the book. Bounty has been paid on the production of every type of book, including cheap, badly-written detective stories and trashy romances; merit, literary or otherwise, is simply not relevant. The Book Bounty Act is not an instrument of censorship and moral attitudes arc not taken into account in the consideration for bounty purposes of a book which satisfies all the criteria for bounty payment. 
The intention of the book bounty is to keep the printing of Australian-produced books within the Australian industry. If bounty were refused on books on which there was no bar to importation the result would be that the book would either be imported or printed for an Australian publisher in Hong Kong or some other low cost country. In either case the effect would beloss of work for the Australian printing industry. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise. In view of the Minister's answer to a previous question which revealed that book bounty payment had been made to the printers of 'Intercourse', 'Ways of Loving', 'Call Girl' and The Little Red Schoolbook' and which gave unsolicited information that a similar bounty was refused to the printers of Lesbian Capers', 'Jay Birds in Love', 'Weekend Love' and 'Girls in Love'- 
I wish to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will not support clause 12. I do not want to re-state some of the criticisms that have already been stated; in fact we do not completely agree with some of those criticisms. I do not know whether it can be suggested that in this field of endeavour this increase represents a handout, or that the issue should be confused by forgetting all about the principle of the margin for skill in this area in which there has been no alteration for 4 years, or by making a comparison with completely different areas in which other increases have occurred during that period. I think that would be unfair and the exercise would be irrelevant to the proposal before us. 
If we look at this clause objectively, we will see that obviously the people affected are in a category of people covered by a Bill which came before the Parliament late last year. In its wisdom, the Parliament decided to reject the increases that were contained in that legislation. It would be inconsistent now to elevate these people out of that category and yet leave the rest of the people in precisely the same position. I think we all know the circumstances in which the previous legislation was rejected in this chamber. An independent inquiry had looked into the salaries of members of Parliament. When the result of the inquiry was made known and the recommendations were brought before the responsible people in the Parliament it was decided that, more or less as a gesture, the recommended rates should be tampered with and reduced. At that time the proposition as a whole was rejected by the members of the Parliament. They argued that if it was good enough to set an example to everybody else by containing wages, and if the recommendations were to be tampered with, the whole proposition should be rejected. It did not come to a vote in the Senate because it was suggested that it would not be carried, anyway. If my memory serves me correctly, the recommendation was rejected even before it reached the Parliament. 
This was immediately followed by a proposition that increases, with no restraint at all, should be given in another area to public servants. I have no wish to criticise their scale of wages. What  Senator Bishop  said is true. I remember the days, when I was a lot younger, when there were discussions about how the value of a conciliation commissioner would be defined in the community's wage structure. It was suggested that he had responsibility equal to that of a member of Federal Parliament. It was more or less on that basis that the Parliament of the day fixed the salary in what was to some extent almost a completely unknown area of skill and responsibility. Apparently there has been a great change of thinking if it is suggested that they are now worth nearly twice as much as a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. It it now suggested that they are worth $7,000 a year more than a member of the Federal Parliament. The inconsistencies are too great for the members of the DLP to bridge the gap. We feel that if there was a responsibility on the Parliament to interfere with the recommendations of an independent tribunal and to reject the wage levels that were suggested for top public servants 6 months ago - those public servants are in exactly the same category as these conciliation commissioners - the position of commissioners should not be placed before the Parliament until the whole issue is brought before the Parliament and justice is done for all. 
If it was right to penalise some people in the interests of setting an example to the community in relation to wage restraint, I believe we should be consistent and continue with that approach until we feel that the danger of inflation has abated to such an extent that complete justice can be done to all. For that reason the Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to oppose this clause. 
Is the Minister representing the Postmaster-General aware that shops in Melbourne are displaying notices advising that the payment of $1.75 will ensure that 'The Little Red Schoolbook* will be delivered by post in spite of the court decision declaring that publication obscene? Does the Postmaster-General propose to take action under section 107 of the Post and Telegraph Act to prosecute those using the postal services to evade the law by sending through the post obscene books which are otherwise unsalable? 
 I do not wish to go over the whole philosophy on amalgamations. At this stage of our consideration of the Bill, after the second reading speeches, we know that there are those amongst us who have entirely differing points of view on the question of amalgamation. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has some reservations about clause 51, but perhaps for reasons different from those expressed by  Senator Murphy.  In his amendment he is trying to deal with a very special set of circumstances. On that point, we find that we can go quite part of the way. 
It seems reasonable that it should not be necessary for a major trade union to conduct a ballot as a general principle when it absorbs another union that does not have a membership exceeding 5 per cent of the total membership of the major union. However, this could lead to some weaknesses. The stage could be reached where a major trade union with 80,000 members could absorb a union with 4,000 members, bringing the total membership to 84,000. As a result, the 5 per cent figure would rise. Within a period of one year a major trade union could absorb as many as 10 other unions. As each of them would not have membership constituting 5 per cent of the total membership of the major organisation, the situation could get completely out of hand. For this reason we propose to move an amendment to  Senator Murphy's  amendment. I ask  Senator Murphy  to give most serious consideration to our proposed amendment. Although we feel that we can go along with the general principle that he is trying to establish, we do not feel that the security we seek would affect his proposal. In order to achieve the protection that we seek it will be necessary for the amendment that we propose to move to  Senator Murphy's  amendment to be agreed to. We accept all of his amendment except paragraph (b) of proposed sub-section (7.). Therefore, I move: 
In proposed sub-section (7.), leave out paragraph (b)  and  insert the following paragraph: "(b) the total number of members that have been, and could be, admitted to the organization upon and by reason of the amalgamation and any amalgamations that have taken effect during the two years preceding the date of lodgment of the application under section one hundred and fifty-eightF of this Act does not exceed five per centum of the number of members of the organization as at the beginning of that period of two years;". 
After proposed sub-section (8.), add the following proposed sub-section: - " '(9.) Where an exemption under the last preceding sub-section has been granted to an organization, a further exemption under that section shall not be granted to that organization in respect of an amalgamation in relation to which an application under section one hundred and fiftyeight f of this Act is lodged within twelve months after the lodgment of the application under that section in respect of the amalgamation in relation to which the exemption was granted.'.". 
The effect of the amendment is that it will not interfere in any way with the right of a major organisation to seek exemption from a ballot except when over a period of 3 years it exceeds the 5 per cent level of its membership by absorbing other trade unions. This would mean that if the major union wished to do that within a period of 3 years it would need to conduct a ballot of its members. If after the period of 3 years rt wished to amalgamate with another union, thereby exceeding the original 5 per cent of its membership, again it could seek exemption from holding a ballot. This would be the total effect of my proposed amendment. We believe that it would achieve that and nothing more. We feel that there are no dangers in the proposal and we suggest that it is a sensible move. 
I do not accept the arguments that have been put forward by  Senator Murphy.  The words 'the total number of members that have been, and could be, admitted to the organisation upon and by reason of the amalgamation' are concerned with the actual amalgamation itself. There  is  nothing  in  this amendment that would stop any organisation from admitting new members at any future date to its organisation. Therefore our amendment does not contain the dangers that  Senator Murphy  suggested that  it  could. Under its rules an organisation can always add to its membership to meet the requirement in terms of numbers. Our amendment wholly and solely covers those members who will be brought in for the purpose of the amalgamation. 
The amendment states'.  the total number of members that have been, and could be. admitted to the organisation upon and by reason of the amalgamation . . . 
It refers to those members who have been admitted and those members who could be admitted by reason of the amalgamation itself. It does not in any way prevent the joining up of new members to any particular organisation at any particular time. This is covered by other sections of the Act in dealing with other sections of union organisations. This clause is intended purely as a precaution. 
That is right. We are determining an optimum which cannot be exceeded. We suggest it is a reasonable proposition. We suggest to the Opposition that it is the only amendment to the clause that we would accept. This amendment will cover precisely the set of circumstances in which the Opposition is interested in relation to a particular organisation which happens to be affiliated with its Party. 
If the honourable senator thinks it is messed up, it is too bad. The organisation to which I referred has requested the Opposition to achieve the objective which will suit its purpose. We are helping the Opposition to achieve that objective and at the same time we are taking into consideration the safeguards that we think are necessary in relation to this clause. We have a choice of 2 amendments and I suggest that the better of the 2 is the amendment which we propose. 
I regret that the discussion on this Bill has tended to follow party lines because the subject matter is far above party politics. No party can honestly claim to have all the virtues or all the sins on this issue. Some members of all parties are heavy smokers and they tend to find it more difficult to accept the available medical evidence of the dangers of cigarette smoking. Some members of all parties are not smokers and therefore they find it much easier to accept the evidence. They become very partisan about it and as purists are convinced that cigarette smoking is an evil that ought to be curtailed in the community. I am a non-smoker and perhaps for me it has been easier to accept medical evidence that is available to show that cigarette smoking is harmful to the community. 1 am therefore amongst those people who have tried to do whatever is possible to curtail it. I am not. amongst those people who, in a flash of enthusiasm, rush out to try to repeat the American experiment. The sale of alcohol was banned in the United States and the history of that experiment, which is so close to us, shows how completely futile that was. lt achieved nothing at all except a tremendous increase in the amount of crime that was conducted, an increase that emanated almost entirely from the ban on alcohol. 

 Senator Georges has suggested that he does not support a ban on the sale of cigarettes. I accept, that. I do not suggest it either and I am not trying to put an argument contrary to the argument that he put. He also stated that the tobacco companies most fear contra-advertising. That is a principle contained in a minor way - perhaps more minor than I would have liked - in this legislation. The only difference is that instead of the Government's paying for the contra-advertising it has endeavoured to force those who pay for the advertising of cigarettes to pay for the warnings that are to be issued to the public. 
If we are to consider what is the most effective form of advertising of cigarette smoking in respect of young people, I think that we must get down to the basic facts. The most effective form of advertising the smoking of cigarettes to young people is that form of advertising for which nobody, including the cigarette com panies, pays at all. It is the simple gesture of the mother and the father - the parent - who smoke in front of their own children. 
If that statement is not true, the babe inarms which is first taught to wave 'ta-ta' does not imitate the actions of its own parents. Because it does imitate the actions of its own parents, it begins to learn the gestures, the speech and the habits of humanity. If amongst those habits is the taking out of a box of cigarettes, the selection of a cigarette, the passing between mother and father of cigarettes and then the lighting up and smoking of them, the child has been subjected to the most powerful and effective influence in the form of advertising of tobacco smoking that it possibly can ever face in any period in its own lifetime. If we wish to curtail the effectiveness of cigarette advertising, first we must try to reach parents to show them that this habit, expressed by indulgence in front of their children, inevitably creates most fertile soil for the continuance of the habit in those children. If we accept that proposition, we begin to see the advertising of cigarettes in its proper perspective. 
What  Senator Georges  has said is true; cigarette smoking is made to appear by the cigarette companies as a social grace and indeed as the road to success in industry, that it is a palliative. It is often depicted with cool running water. I cannot think of anything that is less like cigarette smoking than cool running water. Those parents who wish to help their children to resist following the habits of others by smoking cigarettes - those children may consider cigarette smoking to be a social grace - can do so effectively if they take such advertisements and use them to illustrate the complete ridiculousness of the suggestions that are contained in the use of flowing water as being a cool and effective thing as related to cigarette smoking. The general intelligence of the child will accept the fact that this is ridiculous and the child will begin to consider cigarette smoking as something ridiculous rather than as something towards which to aspire. 
If it is of help to any parents, let me say that my wife and I adopted such a technique with our children in relation to the advertising of cigarettes. We have been fortunate enough to rear 2 young men who do not smoke at all. I believe that this was one of the major factors in turning them away from smoking and in resisting whatever insistency there was in that advertising that they should be like those people who do smoke cigarettes. 
Much of the cigarette advertising that is alleged to be so subtle really, if analysed logically, is the most completely ridiculous form of advertising that exists on television or even on radio. That advertising tries to depict tobacco and cigarette smoking as something completey unrelated to itself and relates it to things with which it has nothing to do at all. So, if the argument that I have put forward is logical and is accepted, we can very readily accept that there is no easy passage to controlling this evil.  1  think that it was  Senator Poke  who interjected that if cigarettes are banned a lot of people will be put out of work. That is true. Although it is a true statement, it does not mean that if such a measure were effective it would be wrong to put people out of work, if cigarette smoking is so injurious as much of the medical evidence would seem to indicate that it may be.  Senator Poke  did not specify whom we would be putting out of work. I would think that he would mean the tobacco workers who helped to produce the actual cigarettes or the packages thereof. There are the tobacco growers, some of whom may be capitalists because they are most successful on their farms. Others are not so successful, as we know happens in all forms of primary production. Then again  Senator Poke  may have meant that it would put out of work the doctors who are trying to treat people who have lung cancer. I do not suppose any of us would suggest that is a very bad sort of objective. 
The idea of putting people out of work should not influence us in any way when we deal with these subjects. There are considerations far more important than that. Nobody would suggest that we should have more motor vehicle accidents to keep the people who repair wrecked vehicles and wrecked human bodies in employment; or that we must not lower the accident rate because it will put out of work people whose lifetime employment consists of the repair of smashed motor cars; or that we should not put out of work the medical staff whose duty it is to patch up and repair wrecked human bodies as a result of motor vehicle accidents. By the same token, nobody would suggest that because we have wrecked motor cars and wrecked human bodies we should ban the use of motor cars. 1 think that in the beginning we have to get the right perspective. 
I agree with the criticism made by  Senator Georges  when he said that this legislation is not what  I  had heard in the beginning it was going to be. I was of the opinion - and  I  still hold this opinion - that this legislation would have been more effective if it had been in the form in which  1  had first heard it suggested it would be. But at least I am willing to admit that this is only an opinion, lt- cannot be backed up by any factual evidence any more than- the banning of advertising of cigarettes or the banning of -cigarettes can be backed up by factual evidence. We are all caught in this society such as it is. 
I accept that every honourable senator wants to try to do something to help ;he community deal with a very intricate problem. We are faced with this intricate problem as a result of a habit that has been formulated over the years. Originally it was thought to be harmless but it- has now been shown to be not as harmless as was once thought. The magnitude of the seriousness of the effects of smoking is perhaps not completely understood even now. If we are to deal with th'is1 problem there must be great deal - of experimentation as to what course we should follow. We would all agree that' the complete banning of cigarettes and -tobacco would be ineffective. We cannot just hil a community that is conditioned to this sort of habit with a ban of that sort and get away with it. lt would be resisted. It would lead to law breaking. It would lead to enormous profiteering by those who would peddle cigarettes on a blackmarket and who would be able to make exorbitant profits out of the community, by. supplying cigarettes and tobacco to the people, who indulge in this habit. , . , . 
We have to consider the young people because there is an attraction towards something that is banned. This is' one of the arguments that is used concerning drugs such as marihuana - that the ban in itself attracts people to the use of the drug. I do not accept that argument. I think that if a ban has always been in existence it does not make the article banned attractive but if a ban is suddenly placed on an article that was previously freely available there is a different psychological approach to it altogether. I think most psychiatrists would agree with that point of view, although I do not purport to be a psychiatrist 
I believe that this Bill is at least a step in the right direction and for that reason I support it, I do not believe that the attempt to express the opinion which is all that is expressed in the amendment contributes anything to the solution of this problem particularly when it has been suggested that there should be a total ban on the advertising of cigarettes. I am, of course, referring to paid commercial advertising which has nothing to do with what I think I have clearly demonstrated as a more effective means of advertising cigarettes. As an example I referred to parents who smoke in front of their children. Action against commercial advertising could be extended to the non-commercial advertising of cigarettes. In nearly every film shown of people who live temporarily in a world of make believe, escaping from the pressures, the humdrum and the boredom which exists in our society today the hero or the heroine will almost inevitably be seen smoking a cigarette. As far as we know the cigarette companies make no payment at all for much of this advertising, unless it is done under the lap. 
When the world of Hollywood first began it may well have been that cigarette companies, by distributing huge quantities of free samples of their product to the promoters of films, promoted the habit of cigarette smoking. This may be particularly so in relation to womenfolk, who were depicted in films as smoking in a period when they did not smoke as much as they do today, for the purpose of having cigarette smoking accepted socially. However, we have now advanced beyond that point. Films depict people smoking because they wish to display realism. The theatres wish to display people as they are, and people do smoke. To depict people smoking in films is a subtle form of advertising. To cull an example from my own experience, in the days when I was a filmgoer Clark Gable, in depicting Rhett Butler in 'Gone with the Wind', inevitably was seen smoking a cigarette. This is a much more subtle and effective form of advertising cigarette smoking than all the paid commercials which show water rippling down a brook or some cowboy character1 riding a horse through the Australian bush and in some way connecting that with cigarette smoking. A far more effective form of advertising is the subtle and unpaid advertisement. Therefore if we are to ban one of these forms of advertising we have to ban cigarette smoking completely from being depicted as a form of human life. Yet how can we when it is a form of human life? 
It is a very difficult problem. The Government has taken a step by introducing this Bill. It is not a very vigorous beginning as an attempt to . control cigarette advertising but it is a start. I think that we should not criticise one another for the opinions which we may hold as to the degree of success which the Government may or may not achieve in this regard. At the moment all any of us can have is an opinion.' As  Senator Carrick  ably pointed out when mentioning those countries in which advertising has not become part and parcel of daily life, such as the Soviet Union where there is no commercial advertising of cigarettes, cigarette smoking is as popular a pastime as it is in those countries which are subject to this form of salesmanship. So I do not see any great virtue in the amendment which is proposed. It does nothing at all except to express an opinion. Even in this debate we are expressing an opinion. We will be able to pick up the newspapers tomorrow and read where a dozen other people have expressed varying opinions on this same subject. I do not think the Senate in trying to force people, on Party lines, into compartments of opinion on the banning of a product would do any good. 
It is easy to over-indulge in a habit forming practice such as cigarette smoking. There are many other products that we could ban also. As you know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  the Committee of which you are the  Chairman  was looking only recently at some of the problems of the Aborigines in the Northern Territory. I do not think that much of the commercial advertising engaged in on radio and television down in Melbourne reaches the people up in Arnhem Land. But the Aborigines in Arnhem Land, although they receive very low incomes, seem to be avid cigarette smokers and purchase large quantities of cigarettes. There is a substance which is more dangerous to the health of Aborigines than cigarettes. In view of the interest of  Senator Georges  and the Leader of my own Party,  Senator Gair,  in the sugar industry 1 almost hesitate to mention this matter. Aborigines buy enormous quantities of sugar when compared with 
Other more nutritious products which they buy. Perhaps the high infant mortality rate amongst the Aborigines in Arnhem Land could be traced to an over-indulgence in what is regarded almost as a sacred product in Queensland and what is harmless to the rest of us, that is, sugar. The absorption of sugar into the metabolism of young Aboriginal children to the extent that they have no appetite for more nutritious foods makes them vulnerable to every disease that comes along. 
So let us not suppose that we will cure the ills and woes of mankind by suddenly taking up the cause now espoused by scientists and medical researchers who have drawn attention to the dangers implicit in this habit, cigarette smoking, which has gradually taken possession of almost the whole of mankind. 
Mention of the millions of dollars raised in excise on this product shows clearly how much a part and parcel of our way of life it has become. The ratio of the excise raised from cigarette sales compared with that for tobacco sales could reflect nothing in relation to the product, but it certainly reflects a change in the level of community prosperity. As a young man I recall in the 1930s that most of my friends could afford no more indulgence in smoking than to roll their own cigarettes. In those days the use of tobacco in this way far exceeded the volume of tailor made cigarettes. In the much more affluent socieity of today, people can afford to buy tailor made cigarettes which fits in with the social pattern that advertising has impressed upon the minds of some people, namely, that the tailor made cigarette is prefereable to the ragged looking, homemade product with a few strands of tobacco hanging out from 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
In view of the Minister's answer to a previous question revealing that book bounty payment had been made to the printers of 'Intercourse', 'Ways of Loving', 'Call Girl' and "The Little Red Schoolbook', and also unsolicited information that  a  similar bounty was refused to the printers of Lesbian Capers', 'Jay Birds in Love', 'Week End Love' and 'Girls in Love', and as in the same answer the Minister stated 'Payment of bounty is in no way related to the merit of the book. Bounty has been paid on the production of every type of book, including cheap, badly-written detective stories and trashy romances; merit, literary or otherwise, is simply not relevant. The Book Bounty Act is not an instrument of censorship and moral attitudes are not taken into account in the consideration for bounty purposes of a book which satisfies all the criteria for bounty payment', will the Minister now disclose why were the bounties refused on the books he listed. 

 Senator COTTON- The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Bounty was refused on the publications referred to by the honourable senator because had they been imported editions they would have been declared prohibited imports and would therefore have fallen within the scope of Section 8 (1) of the Book Bounty Act. That Section provides that bounty is not payable in respect of a book if the printing or publishing of the book by a person or the sending by a person of the book through the post constitutes or would constitute an offence by the person against a law of the Commonwealth. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a press release by the Press Officer of La Trobe University,  Mr Robert  Seagrave, in which it is stated that most campus flats are occupied by unmarried couples and that it is believed that a similar situation will arise in relation to the $3m housing project which will be commenced next April. 
Can the Minister ascertain whether the money provided for this housing project will be loaned from University funds to a non-profit company managed by representatives of various University authorities and students; if so, what terms of repayment are usual for such a loan, or are the buildings to be retained by the University and only the current expenses raised by the company. 
Does the Federal Government approve of portion of the Commonwealth grant to the State of Victoria for education being used to provide housing for the purposes outlined by  Mr Seagrave. 

 Senator WRIGHT- The Minister for Education and Science has providedthe following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
From information provided by La Trobe University, I understand that the' Information Officer did not issue a press release but, in answer to a telephone inquiry by a Melbourne newspaper, expressed some personal views about the campus flats and indicated that his views were not for publication. Despite this, an article on the subject appeared on the following day in the newspaper concerned and gave an inaccurate account of the personal views which  Mr Seagrave  had expressed on the telephone. 
La Trobe University Housing Limited is an independent non-profit making company incorporated under the Victorian Companies Act to operate and manage all non-collegiate accommodation for university staff and students situated on and off the university campus. The sum of $3m to finance the new housing project referred to in the newspaper article will be obtained by loans from public lending institutions and not from university funds, and the Company will meet the full costs of servicing the loans and maintaining the residences. 
No funds provided by either the Commonwealth or State have been used for the new housing project or for the construction of the campus flats referred to in Part (1) of the honourable senator's question. 
I shall be brief in my comments on this Bill, although under different circumstances I would have spoken at greater length. I think it is desirable to bring this legislation up to date. I have studied the debate that took place in another place on the Bill. It would appear that there was a complete uniformity there when it came to passing this measure. A new factor has been introduced into the circumstances and events surrounding this legislation since it was debated in another place. I refer to the fact that the opinion of the Associated Chamber of Manufactures of Australia and the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures on the legislation has been circulated among members of the Parliament. 
I should have thought that one aspect of the second reading speech of . the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  which would have merited particular consideration, as indeed it has, is his statement that a recent examination has shown that there has not been quite the advantage taken of the assistance granted in this direction that had been expected and that it appeared as though there had not been the co-operation forthcoming from the manufacturers that had been hoped for with the original legislation. It would indeed be bad if the new legislation started off in direct conflict with the views of the Chamber of Manufactures, which has apparently asked for certain things to be done. 
It appears from the research I have undertaken into this legislation that its provisions will not apply in the manner in which it was first thought they would. My investigations also revealed that if portion of the new legislation were to be implemented on the old basis of determining things, the financing of the scheme could get completely out of hand in favour of the manufacturers. In view of what I have heard  Mr Hawke  say about the Chamber of Manufactures, I am quite sure that the Australian Labor Party would not be in favour of that. 
It would appear that the new legislation stands or falls on its own and that it could not be taken apart and made to contain a part of the old and a part of the new as the design of the new legislation would not fit in with the old legislation. The Australian Democratic Labor Party sees no difficulty in passing this legislation as it stands. If some of the fears of the manufacturers are found to be valid on application of the legislation there will be nothing to prevent it being amended at that point of time to meet the circumstances. The alternative to that would be to postpone the legislation, which would lead to great injustices to those who have been encouraged to set forward on a programme of development and research and have undertaken contractual obligations at quite a deal of expense which could, in the case of the smaller firms, require progressive payments to keep them functioning in this direction. That would not be possible if this legislation were to be set aside for an extended period. 
The Democratic Labour Party has never felt that the right thing to do would be to send this legislation to a standing committee of the Senate for its examination as that would, in our experience, involve a lengthier procedure. We feel that this legislation is warranted and that, for the reasons I have outlined, any postponement of the legislation would react more unfavourably against the smaller manufacturers than it would be to advantage of the others. This is a co-operative piece of legislation which is designed to assist anybody who is interested in expanding an Australian industry and wants to promote something. There would be no difficulty at some date in the future in amending the legislation if there were particular difficulties that were frustrating the reasons for which this legislation was passed. For those reasons, we support the Bill as it is. 
 I, too. wish to join with those who have indicated support for this Bill. The Australian Democratic Labor Party unquestionably supports it. But I wonder whether we are not being carried away a little in a wave of enthusiasm or self praise for what we are doing. I say that having listened to some of the contributions to this debate from honourable senators. I have read with some apprehension that this contribution is described in the second reading speech of the Minister for Air  (Senator DrakeBrockman)  as being an integral or important part of Australia's overall aid effort. I do not see this as aid at all. I see this as a commonsense business approach to the problem of helping nations so that their standards and prosperity inevitably are improved. 
I consider it a good investment rather than aid, particularly for a country like Australia with its vanishing markets in the old world and with its need to look for means of increasing the standards and prosperity of the area in which we live so that we may trade prosperously in the future. Unless we are prepared as businessmen to enter into these schemes enthusiastically, not with a feeling of self praise for the fact that we are giving aid to somebody else, we are failing to recognise that if there is any aid involved it is aid to ourselves. By adopting the starting point of being businesslike in our approach to the problems of the development of countries that are lagging somewhat behind because of circumstances and the generations that have Icd up to the present one, we gain a different philosophy and point of view of the whole programme as well as this specific proposition to put more capital at the command of the Asian Development Bank. 
I believe that Australia's aid to developing nations has been coloured somewhat with self deception. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has said this for quite a long time. We praise ourselves for contributing 1 per cent of our gross national product to aid projects today but that sum includes the enormous and very creditable aomunt of money that we are spending in Papua New Guinea. This is a direct responsibility which the Australian Democratic Labor Party has always thought should be over and above what we are contributing in aid to the other developing nations in our area. Again, adopting the same businesslike approach to aid, we should look at these contributions as being ultimately in Australia's interests not only in relation to trade but also in relation to peace. We cannot live at peace in this area of the world if our progress and our standards are so much higher than those of the countries in this region. Indeed, the world is in the situation that the standards and progress of certain nations which had achieved greatness are increasing. Tha haves' are getting more and the 'have-nots' are losing even that little which they appeared to have. If that situation is not corrected world peace will not be long sustained, particularly in the area in which we live. 
From another philosophical point of view this is something in which Australia should be involved. We should not run away with so much self praise for doing everything we think possible in the area in which we live, even in our own interests, whilst we are helping other people to emerge from the past and to catch up with the present. 
I turn to the subject of banks. In the development of humanity, the banking structure, particularly the international banking structure, as we know it and as we are developing it today, is a quite new and somewhat untested idea. The availability of finance is essential if countries are to be developed on the magnitude on which it is necessary to develop them in the world today. Following the history of the United States of America, which is one of the giants of world finance and banking, we find a history of monetary and banking collapse running into large proportions. But the system itself survives as it must survive. That is the reason for its survival. But this does indicate to us that we are still in the process of a great deal of experimentation. 
The monetary and credit structures of the nations of the world today still show thai there is much that we need to learn about this new device of financing, particularly in respect of international finance, before we can say that we have arrived at our destination. 
The Asian Development Bank, 1 notice from the Minister's second reading speech, is making finance available at what 1 consider to be a reasonable and rational rate of interest between governments. What is the capital that is at risk? Even an emerging nation may have an unstable political background, but the general theme is development. The realisation that, whatever the political instability of a nation may be: ultimately that nation must progress is important. It would be unlikely that a regime replacing an earlier government, by whatever means, would go back on the obligations of its nation to the Asian Development Bank. If it did, that nation would receive no more finance for development purposes. From this point of view, it would virtually come to a standstill. It would need to devise other means to develop itself. After all, mankind has been trying to devise the means for this purpose for a long time. Whilst I have pointed out some of the limitations with which we are contending even today, at least we are doing more than has been done satisfactorily in earlier generations. Thus I do not see the capital at great risk, and I am pleased to know, and I express the pleasure of my colleagues of the Democratic Labor Party also, that this bank is finding it possible to lend money at rates of interest which vary from H per cent to 3 per cent for specific purposes that are approved. I wonder how much basic capital is at risk in that area of lending to developing countries in which the Bank is charging the more fashionable modern rates of interest of  H  per cent to  7i  per cent, and just how much productivity of a developing country must be directed to sustaining the cost of finance for specific purposes. I personally consider a rate of  7i  per cent to be not interest but usury. There is no justification for charging such high rates for the use of capital to gain necessary development which benefits all of us, the lender as well as the borrower. However, I am not conversant with the actual running or management of the Asian Development Bank; I think we must leave that to the board of international people which has been established and which is managing the Bank's affairs. Nevertheless for a country struggling to emerge, as many of these nations are, rates of interest can be tremendously important. 
A contributor to this Bank, and no doubt a nation borrowing from it, is Korea. I visited Korea recently and I was astounded to learn that the bond rate of interest was over 20 per cent. This causes me to fear for the economic future of that country. I do not mean that financial collapse would necessarily destroy the country, because history shows that countries in spite of financial collapses recreate employment and consumption irrespective of what happens to the economic machinery which they have set up to enable them to do this much better and more prosperously. Nevertheless, one cannot help being concerned when one finds that a debt repaid every 5 years in the form of interest while the capital is still owed. One realises the impractability of a ruling rate of interest of 20 per cent on any type of borrowing, particularly government borrowing when backed by the whole of the facilities and assets of the borrowing country and indeed the future of the country. If a country is not a good risk, it does not have a good future. This may be true in a political sense of some of these nations. But whatever political changes take place, they have need of a system of capitalisation of enterprises which will enable them to develop. It is unlikely that whatever changes take place under whatever circumstances - changes of government may occur - that the loans would ever be renounced by borrowers from this Bank. 
I am glad that there are people in this country who have associated themselves with Action for World Development, because I believe that without development all over the world we cannot meet the future. I part company from the many people who believe that the world can prosper from a disappearing population, or even with a static population. Overpopulation may prove to be a very puzzling problem for the future but I warn those who believe that the solution may be depopulation of what they may well do to the financial structures of the world which is trying to develop productivity for a smaller population. In this country population and development are on a razor edge. Only a very, very small swing of the pendulum is required to change us from a developing nation in a population sense to a depopulated nation, because the margin is so fine. Indeed, if the margin were not artificially maintained by immigration, we would have already reached the stage of being a disappearing nation and unable to sustain development at all, because a nation cannot develop if it has a receding population. The history of other nations has many times proved this. Perhaps the uncontrollability of certain diseases have led to depopulation. One can find remnants of great cities in the jungles of Ceylon which were abandoned by civilisations whose ultimate fate nobody knows. Unquestionably part of the disintegration was caused because, for some reason unknown, their populations began to recede; and as the populations recede their prosperity disappeared and they, too, sank into the realm of forgotten things. 
When we discuss this question,  Mr Acting President,  we should take all these factors into consideration. 1 believe that this kind of experimentation in terms of international and world financing must succeed. I am proud that Australia, a small nation in terms of its economy, has invested in this project. Those funds have been invested, not given away; the capital has not disappeared but remains as an asset of Australia. We have invested $80m in this project, whereas Japan, with which one can make a comparison on the basis of economies quite apart from population, has invested $200m. I think that S80m is a very, very worthwhile and sensible contribution by Australia, for in the future we may need much more than Japan the support of those nations we are now helping to develop. We are still a primary producing nation whereas the shift in Japan's economy is taking her away from her traditional productivity and this may some day make her dependent on nations like Australia for the primary goods that she must have to sustain both her population and her industries. 
Australia's role has been worthwhile. I believe that this is a good Bill to launch what we could almost term a pilot scheme, which is proceeding as planned and is operating successfully. I express some doubts about lending at higher rates of interest but I am encouraged by the fact that in some of its lending the Bank is facing up to the economic fact, which I think is proved by history, that the most successful type of lending and the most successful type of borrowing are those which are conducted upon minimum rates of interest consistent with the protection of the capital at risk. If the capital is not at risk at all, I see no justification for the interest rates which seem to be the popular ones in the economies of the world today. One cannot help but wonder whether difficulties which are faced by prosperous nations of the world arise from their own economies. Here I refer to the United States of America and receding values of its currency. The problem facing the United States of America could very well result from the influence which high rates of interest are having upon this wealthy nation whose economy was tremendously stable when rates of interest were half what they are now, but which today is going through the throes of many economic problems - problems which affect not only the United States but also other nations of the world. 
As one trying to keep pace with world events 1 have been amazed by criticisms of unemployment levels in this country in recent weeks. When I recall the 1930s  -  a period which has memorised for me personally and for my family - and compare it with today, it seems to me that nobody is giving any consideration at all to the very difficult problems which world events have forced upon nations such as ours in the last 2 years. In the 1930s Australia was not responsible for the circumstances of the depression which caused such enormous unemployment in this country. It was a world-wide affair. 
During the last 2 years right throughout the world enormous pressures have been placed upon economies and, indeed, upon employment levels by the economic situation of the United States of America, the revaluation of the United States currency and the depreciation of trade upon which Japan had come to depend in its purchasing of raw materials from Australia. Acually, it is amazing that employment levels in Australia have been held at the level at which they have been held. 1 think that any student and anybody who professes some interest in international affairs and economies cannot but be surprised that we have been able to hold unemployment. I give no credit to the Government. I do not think there has been even a deliberate attitude because the Government never mentions that it has tried to do anything practical to maintain employment levels. Somehow or other we have muddled through. The situation has not been too bad when one considers what it could have been and what one would have expected had the problems been posed before they actually arose. I think the predicters of gloom in this country would have been measuring unemployment in terms of 5 per cent or 10 per cent of the total employable community had one said 12 months before the United States currency began to wobble that it would wobble. Yet this did not affect us as dramatically or as drastically as that at all. For this I think we should indeed be grateful. We should persist in expending whatever efforts are available to us to see that we maintain the absolute minimum which I feel has been maintained with some reasonable success through a very difficult international period. 
Primary industry prices have fallen dramatically but at the same time we are doing reasonably well. We are expressing this situation in terms of the aid which we are granting in other places and the investment which, in this Bill, we are making in the development of other nations. That is how we look at the matter. We accept this Bill with pleasure because we feel that it increases our investment in the development of the countries which we must see developed in our own interests. We hope that the Government will, in the new mood of prosperity which has emanated from our local circumstances out of the current budget, see its way clear to increase still further our actual aid to other countries. We hope that it will give some consideration to what has been expounded by the Australian Democratic Labor Party for at least 10 years; that is that much of the aid which allegedly we have been granting abroad has been going into the specific responsibility that we have for Papua New Guinea. We have no quarrel with this. We believe that responsibility is ours. We believe that it is in our inter ests to accept that responsibility. But the Democratic Labor Party would like to see the percentage of the gross national product going into international development in our area to be exclusive of the personal responsibility - if one could call it that in referring to a nation - which we in Australia feel towards Papua New Guinea. We support the Bill. We hope that this further investment in the Asian Development Bank will bring to Australia the improved circumstances which 1 believe we have every right to expect by improving the circumstances in the whole Asian region of which, at least geographically, wc form part. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware that a cheese factory in New South Wales was prevented by the Department of Health from manufacturing parmesan cheese, which is made from unpasteurised milk? As pasteurisation kills the bacteria necessary to curd this cheese, it follows that imported cheese could be equally dangerous to human health. Will the Minister inquire whether such cheese is imported into Australia and whether the countries from which the cheese comes have any incidence of foot and mouth disease? If the inquiry reveals that the product comes from infected areas, will the Commonwealth ban such imports in order to protect the health of the people and the future of the Australian dairy herds? 
J support the Victoria Grant (Millewa Pipelines) Bill. The Democratic Labor Party favours this type of development legislation. It would be a poor thing if we allowed these water irrigation schemes to run down and outlive their usefulness and did not modernise and replace them. Many benefits will accrue from this project. I am not an expert in this field and I do not know about the saving of two-thirds of the total quantity of water involved in this project. The water is drawn from the Murray River system and under this scheme it is to be piped rather than run in open drains. I do not know whether this will represent a serious contribution to the alleviation of the salination problem associated with the Murray River in its lower reaches, which reached almost crisis proportions only a year or so ago. There is no doubt that over the years as this scheme and others of. like character proceed they will ultimately make a very significant contribution. It is necessary that they should do so. For once it is very good to hear that a programme which, after ali, changes our environment has no opponents on the grounds of ecology or anything else. Everybody is. totally and completely in favour of the project. I, like some of my friends in the Senate and particularly  Senator Cavanagh  who expressed a point of view the other night,, agree that we have to watch this sudden enthusiasm for not changing the ecology and the environment. We have to see that preventing such changes does not go too far, After all, we live in a continent where,; had we not changed the environment, npt even the convicts who. were first sent here; and forced to stay would have been able to maintain themselves.   i. 
In this country it is  necessary toremember always that it was --the changing of the natural environment as: it was when discovered by people who .came from Europe in the early days which, has made it possible for what was once almost a desert to bloom and blossom in small parts today and give us a satisfactory way of life. We must not turn ourselves against changing the environment merely for the purpose of being against it. If. we do we may go back to where bur predecessors began and that is with a. very difficult environment with which to cope. This Bill provides for the taking of. a very small step. It happens to occur in Victoria. Perhaps it can be inferred that there is some injustice between States. I do not know the procedure. F-do not know how these grants are worked out, whether they are worked on priorities of applications, urgent need, who gets in first, or whether it is fat lands or sheep for wool which one is grazing. If there is a deficiency in South Australia I hope that the Commonwealth coffers which have suddenly become a little larger in the last few weeks than we were led to believe they were will be big enough to provide South Australia with a workable scheme of a similar character which it may require. 
This grant happens to go to the State' which I represent. Not only as a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party do I express favour of this legislation but, also, as a senator from Victoria. No doubt the farmers in this area will feel great satisfaction that the Commonwealth has seen fit to include Victoria in a scheme such as this. We hope that it will be brought to fruition as quickly as possible. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Was a cheese factory in New South Wales prevented by the State Department of Health from manufacturing parmesan fancy cheese from unpasteurised milk. 
Is it a fact that pasteurisation kills bacteria necessary to curd parmesan cheese and that imports of this cheese made from unpasteurised milk could be dangerous to human health. 
Is parmesan cheese, imported into Australia, made from unpasteurised milk; if so, do the countries of origin have any incidence of foot and mouth disease. 
If the answer to (3) is in the affirmative, will the Commonwealth ban such imports so as to protect the health of people, and the future of the dairying industry in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Firstly, can the Minister inform the House of the result of the dairy industry referendum held in 1970 on an equalised price being made compulsory for all butter sold on the home or the export market? Secondly, has the decision of that referendum been carried out or is Government policy endeavouring to force a 2-price quota plan? Thirdly, are dairymen in Victoria being subjected to pressure to accept a restrictive production plan under threat of subsidy reduction in this industry for which there is clear evidence of world markets being available in the foreseeable future? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service aware of the growing public concern about the invasion of foreign controlled companies into various Australian industries? Is it a fact that the Australian Labor Party and the Government use 100 per cent foreign controlled advertising agencies for their election campaigns, so giving them business worth millions of dollars? Will the Minister take notice that the Democratic Labor Party's advertising activities are conducted through an Australian agency? 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not propose to support the disallowance of this Ordinance. We have looked at the whole situation and have listened to the arguments. There is nobody in this House in my view who does not have a great sympathy for the problems of the Aboriginal people. Indeed there is today more understanding of those problems than ever before in the history of this nation. There has been exhibited on many occasions a desire to do many things which are now constructive in assisting the Aboriginal people, large numbers of whom are nomadic, to cross the bridges that must be crossed so that they may be integrated gradually into a modern society. These problems are not small as they were thought to be in the early days of the settlement of this country by white people when it was believed that it was merely a question of overcoming a fear complex that they were in some way a danger to them. The Aborigines were not, in the main, aggressive, although at times and in some circumstances they were driven to assert themselves and did so. So the fears and conflicts grew. 
All that occurred long before our generation, and there seemed to have been found a very convenient way not to tackle the fundamental problems which affect these people but to sweep them under the carpet or to solve them with hand-outs. I think that today we would all agree that this supposed solution ultimately did not help the Aborigines to cross the bridges to join us in developing this country, but rather it helped further to destroy them even more widely and insidiously than anything else that could have been designed. It took from them their pride and interest and in many instances made mendicants of those who were not capable even of a desire to move from the existence into which their environment had forced them to an existence made possible as gradually that environment was changed. The environment had changed completely and absolutely by the intrusion of white settlers who brought with them new knowledge and experience and who were able for the first time to apply the advantages of capitalisation to the enormous natural resources of this country - resources which at that time had not been exploited, such as the mineral resources which no-one knew existed in this country. 
That was a general problem. The specific one the Senate is discussing is this Ordinance and its history.  Senator Cavanagh  made the relevant point that the Aborigines had been camped outside Parliament House for 6 months and that nothing had been done about them. What we have to decide as a result of the natural sympathy that we all feel and which I had already expressed without contest, without an interjection, which exists on all sides of the House, is to do something, perhaps in different ways, to help solve these problems. The Government ignored its responsibility to the whole of Australia and had allowed to be erected on a public reserve an establishment which took from many other people the right to use a section of that reserve. I believe the Government was ill-advised not to take action within a reasonable time of the first tents being erected on the lawns outside Parliament House. I believe my colleagues of the Democratic Labor Party agree with me. This was a dangerous action, for it we look at the consequences we will reemphasise that we all have a great number of different sympathies. Let me assume that the present Government was not in office at the time the embassy was erected - this 
Government which is charged with being in some way hostile to the Aborigines and the things they wished to demonstrate, because it had left them there for 6 months before it did anything. Let us assume also that the Australian Labor Party was in office at the time of the embassy's erection. We are all aware that the Labor Party supports many causes which it considers equally as valuable as the Aborigines' cause. In fact, some of them are given a lot more prominance than even the unemployment question: One has been debated in the Parliament in the last day or so. The Labor Party is more concerned about what it considers to be the establishment of the Ustasha in this country and it demands that something be done about it. 
Quite right, too. But let us look at the whole spectrum of the Labor Party's interests. It also makes a great thing of the legislation of homosexuality; it believes in abortion on demand; and it has made a statement through an honourable senator that it believes in an open go for pornography. Are we to see the gardens outside Parliament House covered by the erection of tents which will carry banners protesting about the desires, some of the policies, of the Labor Party? 
It is difficult for me to withdraw that statement. He should ask  Senator James  McClelland who made the statement to withdraw it, not me. I am only repeating what was published in the Press as a statement by the spokesman for the Labor Party on the issue. But if it offends  Senator McLaren  that it becomes known to the public, I am happy to withdraw it. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - A point of order has been raised,  Senator Little,  and it was not your right to debate it at this stage.  Senator McLaren  asked whether you were in order in quoting Labor Party policy as being in support of pornography. You,  Senator Little,  made that statement but I cannot do anything about any statement you make about what the Labor Party believes. You could be quite wrong. The point of order is not upheld. 
Thank you. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Little,  the remarks made by you are offensive to  Senator McLaren  and I would ask you to withdraw them. 
 I would gladly accept your instruction to withdraw them if  Senator McLaren  is in any way sensitive on the issue. Having established the Labor Party's case for causes with which it has great sympathy, that is to erect establishments outside Parliament House, which this Ordinance will now prohibit, 1 can turn to the specific interests of the other parties. My own Party believes in many other things just as sincerely as it believes in the case for the Aborigines and which should be given great prominence. For instance, we believe that large family, child endowment and maternity allowances should be greatly increased. Yet are we to be permitted to erect a building outside Parliament House to exhibit those beliefs? We believe in the abolition of the means test and we believe in increasing unemployment benefits. Our Party was the first to draw attention in this House to the inadequacy of those benefits and as a result those benefits were almost immediately increased. It is our right to raise those issues in this House, but surely we do not have a right to erect and adorn structures outside Parliament House simply because we believe in those causes. Nor do the unemployed for whom we have sympathy. 
This is the basis of the Ordinance. It is not a question of a specific programme advocated by the people. That is why I tell the Government that it was very dangerous to have expressed its sympathy for this particular cause for so long by taking no action whatsoever to halt this encroachment. To the best of my knowledge, all parties are opposed to encroachments on public parks and gardens for any purpose. Are we to break the platforms of our parties each time a party has a specific cause about which it goes overboard? 1 think  Senator Cavanagh's  criticism of the Government for allowing the alleged embassy to remain there for so long was a valid criticism. I think the Government will learn that the establishment of such a dangerous precedent could lead to bigger and worse troubles. People have an instinct and a right to expect that if something is tolerated for as long as 6 months it ought to continue to be tolerated. 1 think it was a dangerous precedent to set, and I make that point to the Senate. 
Let us look at some of the. matters that have been raised about the people whom the Ordinance affects. One section of the protestors whom the Ordinance affects is the Aboriginal people who were camped opposite Parliament House. The problem is a very serious one. I believe that for the first time in our history we are beginning to do positive things which might help to solve an almost insoluble problem. Firstly, confusion between the problems of Aborigines who have been fringe dwellers of industrial cities for generations, and the problems of Aborigines who are the true nomad people of sections of northern Queensland, northern Western Australia and the Northern Territory should cease. 
If  Senator Georges  is not aware of the difference now he will be when I finish. The Aborigines in the Northern Territory have a distinctly different set of problems which are far more difficult to solve than the Aborigines who have lived in the shadow of industrial cities for generations. 
If  Senator Georges  does not accept that basic fact he should go back to school on this problem because he will not be able to help the people whom he wants to help. 
 Senator Georges  can judge me by my remarks. There is a tremendous difference between the problems of these people. In Victoria the Democratic Labor Party pioneered land rights for Aborigines who had been segregated into Aboriginal reserves in the Gippsland area to give them back the dignity that they seemed to have lost under the old handout system. That has helped to re-establish them on a completely new basis. They are progressing very well although not as well as many people would like. We are beginning to make progress. Haste in trying to solve the problem could be a very destructive force. The problem did not grow overnight. lt existed even before white settlers came here. Geologists and historians have examined this country. They have found that there was a limited time in which the continent would have been able to continue to sustain animal life in any shape or form - human or otherwise - if there had not been introduced into the country some of the ideas that were brought here by the earlier settlers. 
 Senator Georges  denies this. The whole geological history is against him. The grasses and the animals necessary to sustain life were not here. There was not the continuity of sufficient seasonal conditions to sustain a farming community. That is why the farming community had disappeared, if it had ever existed on this continent. The farming community was brought back here when the white man brought with him the experience and the knowledge to know how to harness the natural resources to enable him to venture upon new undertakings. 
Australia faces entirely different circumstances now. In the last 25 to 50 years the nomad people of the deserts of the Northern Territory have come to the settlements and have been subjected, because the basic philosophy was wrong, to the bad influence of the progressive world that Australia has become. We have to build a bridge. In spite of the attempted interjections, let us get down to the facts. There have been great difficulties wherever there has been a problem of assimilation. In America the Red Indian knew the horse. He lived in villages. He farmed the land. He was not a nomad in the accepted sense that the Australian Aboriginal is because the environment of the Australian Aboriginal is so much more difficult and harsher. The white man went to America from Europe. He had horses, but he had carts as well. He had gone a step in advance of the Red Indian. Today the Australian Aboriginal is coming in from the deserts and making his first association and contact with the type of civilisation that we have today. That civilisation is not one of horses and carts but is one capable of sending man on journeys to the moon. The Aboriginal is far behind what the Red Indian was when he first made contact with the European-type civilisation. We have a far greater gap over which we have to build a bridge than any previous gap with a problem of this type. 
Let us examine some of the circumstances. 1 agree wilh  Senator Keeffe  - nobody can disagree now because of the production of the figures - about the infant mortality rate among Aborigines. It is a shocking thing. Nowhere in the world previously has statistical evidence been gathered and collated to show the infant mortality rate among people who live in and who are still influenced by the type of environment in which these people have lived and survived when probably our race would have been wiped out. Because of the production of this statistical evidence the medical officers who collated it have been condemned. In the world of medicine, if one does not find out what the problem is. one has very little chance of solving it. They are condemned because, for the first time in history, the necessary evidence to get on with the job of solving the problem has been collated. The problem is not of their making or, in fact, of anybody's making. The environment has given to the people who have lived and survived in it a specific set of circumstances which they have learned to use to survive. Those circumstances are not compatible with moving into a modern type community. 
In the family culture of the nomads in the deserts infants were breast fed until they were 4 or 5 years of age. Their intake of food was supplemented by grubs, lizards, moths, grass seeds and grasss which they could chew all day. Probably the protein that they derived from those foods was, if not sufficient, then better than the protein that they get now. If one goes to the desert, looks at the circumstances and makes inquiries, the first thing that one finds - I neither criticise nor condemn anybody for this, but one has to find solutions for this - is that the common practice now is that their main purchases from the stores on the settlements, with the money that they have, are tea and sugar. They lack the knowledge to know that a child of 3, 4 or 5 years of age whose little stomach is filled with a beverage which consists of brewed tea with perhaps half a pound of sugar placed in the billy has no desire to eat and suffers malnutrition because its diet is completely inadequate. It does not cry for food because the sustenance that it is given is sufficient to still the pangs of hunger. Because of their environment they do not understand. The same thing would have happened to us. There is no criticism in what I say. If a child does not cry, as a hungry child will cry, they naturally presume that it is fed. But it is not fed sufficiently to ensure that its health will be normal. The incidence of infant mortality is high because deprived of the necessary proteins the babies are subject to all the diseases. It would be simple to say that there is an easy solution to this problem, yet when we analyse it, there is not an easy solution. The children are very much prized and loved in their families as they are in our families. One cannot take the children away from the influence of their mothers, and no-one will advocate that. 
One cannot take the child in an environment such as this and shove the necessary foods down its throat, because the first time that the child gets ill what happens in the tribal circle is that the white man is condemned for the fact. Even if he puts a needle into the little bodies somewhere to give the children the necessary treatment superstition is then introduced and the Aborigines say that this is what killed the child. We are not getting cooperation. 
 Senator Georges,  by your interjections you are only exhibiting the fact that you have not made any intelligent survey. The honourable senator has not tried to help these people. He is one of those who apparently are prepared to get a slogan and rush around waving it on a stick, thinking that he is going to help someone. But he is not going to help the Aborigines unless he gets down to cases and investigates those cases by using what intelligence he is blessed with. He needs to find the real things and the essential things to do. He needs to get to work in order to help to build the bridges that will assist Aboriginal people to walk across into a civilised community. He should not think that we can go out and tackle a problem as enormous and as long established as this has been, wave a few slogans, give a few handouts, make food available and believe that such acts will automatically solve that problem. 
If we increased the amount of proper proteins a hundred-fold to these communities which are deprived of them, little would reach the children. It is no-one's fault that this happens at the moment. We have to get through to them the knowledge that we have of how essential proteins are to them. These people love their children. We are educating the children and providing the schools that are necessary to give them the knowledge. At the moment one of the big barriers - and I have been criticised for what 1 have said about this - is the fact that young people who were beginning to gain the knowledge that will help with the problem which has to be solved where it alone can be solved - 'amongst the Aboriginal people themselves - go back to their villages and are forced to be reabsorbed into village life by much of the witchcraft, tradition and alleged cultures of Aboriginal people. Those things were adequately suitable in the environment in which they once lived and which, if we leave them alone, they will leave behind them in their march forwards towards a civilised community. 
Many people are walking around today who, because they think there is something cute about some of these things that resemble the witchcraft in our society of 150 years ago, say that because it is Aboriginal culture it must be preserved at all time. I have said at a Democratic Labor Party conference that some of the things that were real culture, which would never die, and which would remain so whatever bridges the Aborigines crossed, were their bark paintings, their carvings and their dancing. I was quoted as saying in this regard that all that was worth preserving was their bark paintings. What a lot of rubbish. There is much in their culture that they will bring with them. 
It is not for us to destroy their culture or to keep it alive. If, as they cross the bridges, they want to walk away from certain parts of their culture as we have walked away from ours, as with witchcraft, that is all right. If  Senator O'Byrne  wants to interject, does he suggest that it was never the culture of our race to grab women who were thought to be witches and dunk them in a pond and if they did not drown to burn them at the stake, and if they did not burn to declare that they were not witches? Was that culture? Did we want to bring that sort of custom with us as we were educated into a modern age? Of course we did not. We walked away from it. At Bathurst Island and in various settlements in the Northern Territory I have talked to young Aborigines who said that they are walking away from much of this alleged culture. However, they are finding that the white people are forcing them back to it because they say that it is Aboriginal culture and must be preserved. 
The honourable senator can point what he likes. He will not disturb me. If my logic is too good and he has to leave, I also will be unconcerned. I have a feeling that we as a people want to help the Aborigines and want to do it intelligently and correctly. We do not want to subscribe to what happened in the past. We do not believe that there are easy ways out of this problem such as thinking that all we have to do is to give Aborigines some land. 

 Senator Keeffe has suggested that the Government's proposition to give 35 square miles of land to Aborigines at Watt 
Creek should be revised and that an area of 500 square miles be given to them. I am no expert on this matter. However, I have been to Watti Creek. To the best of my knowledge a station consisting of 500 square miles would be the smallest station in the whole of the Northern Territory. Also, the area would be in the worst land. Watti Creek is part of the Wave Hill Station. An area of 6,000 square miles would be needed for that station to be a viable unit and enable it to produce returns of the type that we expect and to enable people to live. A station of this size would be needed for a whole tribe of Aborigines to establish a viable unit. My approach to this matter is this: All that would happen with the publicity that would result would be the condemnation of the Aboriginal people on this area to whom  Senator Keeffe  would give an impossible task. It would be impossible to run a cattle station on an area of 500 square miles on the sort of terrain at Watt Creek. It takes enormous capital resources and enormous know-how by international companies such as Vesteys to sustain the proper breeds of cattle in the environment in which they will be grazed. There is a need to keep the breed at the right level and to get cattle out of isolated areas hundreds of miles from anywhere to the markets. Any enterprise such as this will have to accept the enormous handicap of season after season of distress and survive the adverse conditions until the coming of one good season which would produce a profitable yield of cattle. Yet, it is suggested that 500 square miles is required. 
Even if assistance were poured in and even if Aboriginals were left for a short period on their own in the climatic conditions of that environment, one bad season would wipe out the business enterprise and if they were not rescued the whole of the Gurindji tribe would be wiped out as well. These people have roamed over thousands of square miles of territory. This is the sort of terrain that made them nomads. One could easily eat the natural food in 500 square miles of this territory in 6 to 12 months after which time nothing would be left but a barren area. If the people of this area had not been able to move on to another place their species would have become extinct long ago. 
No, 1 was only at Wave Hill for a day. I saw plenty of evidence of huts that I would not have called houses that had been built for Aboriginal stockmen to live in. However, I saw plenty of evidence of other things. I do not criticise the Aboriginal people here, but because they had become accustomed to their environment they did not even leave the tin huts in the middle of the night but urinated against the wall until they had rotted the walls away. That is not a criticism at all of the Aboriginal people. However, it shows the enormous difficulties. Building houses for Aboriginal people will not solve anything. Firstly we have to teach them how to live in the sort of houses that you and I have learnt to live in. Our ancestors have gradually progressed towards that stage over a period of 1,000 years. However, the Aboriginal people have not had the advantage of those 1,000 years of history. 1 believe that honourable senators could be making hasty decisions. They think that there are short cuts and easy ways and that slogans can do the job. I say that the medical men of the Department of Health in the Northern Territory today, who are collating the evidence, are able to fulfil a requirement by slowing the high infant mortality rate through finding out why it is so high. That is going to achieve something. 
But there should not be condemnation of them for producing the evidence that is nobody's fault at this point of time. It is the circumstances of history and the environment that have led to a way of life that was necessary in those circumstances to survive but which is no longer necessary. It is our responsibility to be the guide dog to lead them across those necessary bridges towards a better way of life. It can be done that way. 
I could talk on this matter for a long time. But really I do not think that I am relevant to the subject that is before the chair when I do so, because this is a side issue of the Ordinance. These happen to be merely the issues on which this band of people who are affected by this Ordinance have demonstrated. As I pointed out, it may affect many other bands of people who have what they consider to be very worthy causes, possibly even as worthy as I believe the overall cause of these people to be. In their protestations, they will not know all the answers any more than we will, lt is doubtful whether some of them would have had sufficient opportunity to research the whole matter as definitively as it has to be researched before they can make the necessary suggestions to help them in the problem and to help us to help them in the problem with which they are faced. 
At this point of the debate 1 want to restrict my remarks to speaking against the amendment that is presently before the chamber. The Social Services Bill which we are discussing flows from the promises that were made in the Budget. A great deal of what is contained in the Bill has been accepted and indeed praised by the community. We, like everybody else, wish to see the good sections of this legislation implemented as soon as possible. The amendment which has been proposed by the Australian Labor Party is merely an expression of opinion and, from our point of view, not a very satisfactory expression of opinion as to what the future social services system should be. It leaves the question as to who is to pay for the proposed system completely in obscurity and tends to suggest that everything will fall as pie from the sky, and that all we need do is to say some pious words and everything will be very lovely. 
We believe in restricting our criticism of the Bill and the advice which we offer to the Government and to people who will be concerned with the social services scheme in the future to the practical area of what we believe to be possible, what can be financed and how it should be financed. We believe that it should be financed in a manner which will make it a contributory part of the whole financial structure of the nation so that the things that we want to See achieved can be properly achieved. At a later stage in the debate, if the amendment before the Chamber is defeated, I will move on behalf of my Party a further amendment which / shall  foreshadow at  the conclusion of my speech. The amendment which the Labor Party has moved is in these terms: 
. the Senate is of opinion that the only satisfactory way to provide social services benefits is through a comprehensive national system of social security . . . 
How is it to be financed? What does it comprise? The amendment continues:   . . where benefits are above the poverty  level  and tied to an index adjusted at least annually. 
The first decision to be made is the type of index in order to make it a very practical proposition and then, in order to ensure that the benefits are above the poverty level, the next decision to be made is what actually is a poverty level. As  Senator Webster  has already indicated, today there are people - and I am in no way critical of them - who go in a motor car to pick up their social service benefits. It might not be the latest model motor car; it might be a vintage motor car. We all know that it costs a considerable amount of money to run a motor car. But would it bc suggested that because people own a motor car they are living above the poverty level? Sometimes people acquire, in a lifetime, habits which may not be in their best interests and which very often lead them Co the situation where they have to live below the poverty level. 
1 understand it is not the horses; it is the people who gamble on the horses. Horses themselves really cost people little, if anything at all, unless they develop the habit of considering the possibility of getting rich by being able to select which horse can gallop the fastest at a particular point of time. But I do not believe that we should deny completely to persons receiving social services the opportunity to engage in that form of entertainment. They have reached a phase in life where social service payments are their right because of the taxation that they have paid throughout a lifetime. In a democracy, how those people decide to get their amusement compared with other people is their own business. I do not believe that when you speak in terms of benefits being above the poverty level you have to establish exactly what is the poverty level. So we do not agree with the amendment that is before the  Senate: we  believe that what is contained in it may be tremendously improved. 
Of course, the whole question of social services has been exercising the minds of people in the community for a long time. It is nearly 15 years since the 
Australian Democratic Labor Party campaigned strongly for the abolition of the means test, and we have persisted in that campaign election after election. We find from the debate on social services today that the question of the abolition of the means test has become very popular with all political parties, and we are glad that that is so. We believe that it is a facing of the facts of modern life that this should be so. There should not be a penalty for thrift. People who have adequately superannuated themselves are cut off from the benefits which their own taxation has helped to provide. Thriftiness and in many instances compulsory systems of superannuation have prevented people, particularly those in the service of governments, who are forced during their lifetime, if they wish to remain in such service, to contribute to systems of superannuation, from receiving the benefits which their own taxation has helped to provide. They find that their retirement benefits derived from their contributions to superannuation schemes which are deducted from their wages cost them out of the benefits that are available to their next door neighbours who have not so provided for their future. 
As inflation gathered pace and costs and prices rose, many people who thought that they had provided adequately for their future through superannuation schemes found that the drawings from the superannuation schemes were completely inadequate to provide the standard of living which they had expected they would be able to enjoy when they made their contributions to the superannuation schemes. At the same time they found that the benefits which they had built up for themselves out of their incomes over the years acted, if not completely to prevent them from receiving social service benefits, to reduce whatever they may have received, by comparison with other people, to the point of it being of no practical help whatsoever. Yet at the same time many people were excluded from the fringe benefits that were available to others who had not worked in the same type of industry or who had not voluntarily contributed towards their retirement. I do not believe that the great majority of Australians want to be dependent upon the State. 1 think people take a pride in being able to pro vide for their retirement and that they will continue to do so. But that is not a valid reason for arguing that at the closing stages of their lives they should be denied privileges that are available to the community and should be available to all who contribute towards them and to all who pay the adequate rates of taxation which have been devised by governments over the years according to the incomes which they have earned. The Democratic Labor Party does not believe in the application of the means test whether it be applied in the area of social services or of education or of scholarships or anything else. We believe that the young people of this community are equal to one another, that all are born equal and should have equal opportunities and that if they are able, by their own ability, to win scholarships that are made available by the community, then this is not specifically in the interests of the individuals themselves but in the interests of this nation so that we shall have a better educated, a better producing, a more highly skilled and a more proficient nation. Yet we tell the child whose parents may happen to earn a higher income, 'You are excluded from specific benefits because your parents earn a particular income'. Yet those parents may not have the same interests as parents on a lower income and may not be prepared to make available to their child the benefits of their higher income. They may be more interested, as  Senator Webster  suggested - and I remind  Senator Webster  that not only the poor go to the races - in backing winners on a Saturday than providing a highly intelligent young person who may be studying medicine at a university until he is  24  or  25  years of age with means which will enable him to live as a young person of that age ought to be able to live, at a reasonable standard in the community. One finds children of even well to do families dropping out from the higher level of education and giving up scholarships, because despite their parents' income, of which they are not necessarily beneficiaries, they arc denied the necessary living allowances that are made available to other members of the community. Of course, should these young people make the grade and attain higher skills through education and so earn higher incomes, they will pay the higher taxes under our system which we believe is fair and just. 
But why should they who were capable in their younger years of winning a specific scholarship be denied all the benefits of that scholarship, simply because their parents may at that point of time have enjoyed an income which, as I have pointed out, they may not necessarily be sharing with their children who are trying to work their way through university? We believe that these things should be the right of every individual. 
This leads me to make another criticism which the DLP has made many times before and which the Leader of the DLP,  Senator Gair,  in his speech on the Budget made once again, that the Government has seen fit to increase the gap that exists between those who happen to be married and are drawing a pension and those who may not be married at a particular time or who have been married and have lost their partner. It has been said in justification that 2 can live more cheaply than one; yet we find that every time pension increases are granted, more is granted to the single pensioner than to 2 persons who happen to be married. Only a few weeks ago I received a strange item of correspondence. Why it should have been addressed to me in particular, I do not know, and I wonder whether other senators and honourable members received similar letters. It was from 2 people who are particularly interested in the problem of homosexuality; whether they themselves were so afflicted. I do not know. They wanted equal rights for homosexuals in marriage and everything else. I did not think that this letter required a reply, but had I replied 1 would have been forced to warn them in their own interest that they should not seek the rights and benefits of marriage status in our community, as they put it, because if they were still interested in homosexuality at the stage when they became entitled to pensions, they would find that they might have the same rights as married people but would not get the same benefits as 2 single persons. They would be better off to be treated as they are today, in the state of single blessedness because under the Government's proposal in the present Budget, as 2 separate individuals they would be $5.50 a week better off than they would be if they were regarded as and received the benefits of a married couple from the social services legislation of this Government. The DLP cannot see the justification for this; we have pointed out this problem time and again and we will continue to do so. 
I believe that as modern thinking catches up both with the Government and the Opposition the DLP will be joined in this attitude as we have in many other fields; that is, that the Government and the Opposition will turn the clock the other way. I appreciate that it would be very difficult to bridge in one fell swoop the gap that has been created between those who are married and are sharing their old age and those who are single; but at least the tendency surely should be to begin to operate the other way, to close the gap. This must happen if one pauses to think of the circumstances and the responsibilities of the 2 sections of the Australian people, on the one hand the person who perhaps has never married or who has married but has lost his or her partner, and on the other hand those who are fortunate enough to be sharing together their old age and retirement. When 2 people are together they have a responsibility to each other which a single person never had. That responsibility does not disappear with old age but becomes accentuated because it is the elderly person who receives a very limited social services income. When 2 people are together, both can become ill, not just one. When one moves among people who are living in these circumstances, one finds time and again that not in their own interests, if they really understood the problem, and certainly not in the interests of the nation, they are skimping and saving and endeavouring to put aside a little from their social services payment in case one or the other becomes ill, because they  realise that after  a certain point enormous expenses are rapidly incurred as a result of illness. 
I know all about the arguments in relation to free medicine and benefits to pensioners, and I know also when a person suffers an illness, particularly the long illness that often comes with the passage of years, just how impoverished people can be. lt is this responsibility to each other which causes the people of the group that I am discussing very often to become overcautious and not to spend even the small income they receive. As a result of this responsibility that they feel for each other they believe that some money should be put aside as a precaution, that this is necessary in accordance with the responsibilities which they have accepted through marriage. 
How does this sum of §5.50 per week per couple affect people who are widowed? Any medical man will tell you that today one of the greatest medical problems of people in this group is loneliness. They have nobody to share things with. I refer particularly to those people who have had a very satisfactory lifetime of sharing and all the wonderful benefits that it can bring. We form elderly citizens clubs and pensioners clubs to bring these people together and lonely people become interested in one another. Yet there is this barrier against such people sharing their lives again. There are people who have reared families and refuse to accept the modern idea of a companionship that is not recognised by the rest of the community. They refuse to live together without marriage but if they get married their combined income is reduced immediately. 
Why should this be so? Are we still looking at pensions on the basis of a subsistence philosophy? Will we stop pensioners from starving to death and then draw the line and say that we should not go beyond that point? Surely we should think of the quality of life in this area of the community. One of my greatest disputes with many people in society today is that they want licence and permissiveness to the detriment of the quality of life that we want to try to preserve. Surely the elderly people who helped to construct the economy and society that we have inherited today should be provided with social services. We should be thinking in terms of the quality of their lives, not the level at which they can subsist. We should not be thinking that if they happen to get married they will not use as much electric light in order to sit up at night. Indeed, probably they would use more. If they had companionship they would not crawl off to bed at 6 o'clock at night because they had nothing else to do. They could sit up and enjoy television or radio in one another's company. This would increase their expense budget. It would be the result of their enjoying the companionship that surely we want them to have. Of course, when one produces that argument everybody says that they want these people to have these things; but they are denied money from our social service provisions to achieve them. 
 I do not think we need to get as technical as frequency modulation is. This is a simple argument to me. I believe in quality of life. I believe that young people should have it and 1 believe that they also need help by means of the experience that people gain with the years. Young people need protection against things which, because of their inexperience, they do not realise are a danger to the quality of life. I refer to pornography, dope and all the other things that can destroy the quality of life. I believe that at the other end of the life cycle we should hold to the philosophy that it is the quality of life that counts. I defy anybody to suggest that a life alone has any comparison with a life that is shared. Any doctor or psychologist will tell us how much mental illness in older people is brought about by sheer loneliness. We all know that because of the generation gap it is very difficult to provide the companionship that is appreciated. We should encourage elderly widows and widowers to remarry and enjoy life again but instead we impose a financial penalty on them in the form of the social service structure. 
We of the Democratic Labor Party were pleased with some of the things contained in this Budget but we could not help but be bitterly disappointed that the Government again has not given the attention that it should have given to child endowment and maternity allowance. These are 2 areas in our social services that have dropped far behind because of inflation. They have not received the attention that they ought to have received from political parties. It seems strange today that people are advocating things which were argued against 30 or 40 years ago. In the 1930s we seemed to realise that a community which was decreasing in numbers could not be a forward looking and prosperous community. Indeed, some nations adopted all sorts of techniques to increase the number of members in families. Today there is a switch in the opposite direction in many countries, lt could be argued that from a social and economic point of view it is sound for those countries to take that course. However lt certainly is not wise in this country because Australia still is vastly underpopulated. In spite of what we are told today, our immigration programme and our natural increase will never, on present tendencies, ensure that we will have a rate of growth sufficient to develop this country and to maintain th: standards that exist today. Those standards cannot be maintained with a static or receding population. 
Today a person who has coped with a large family or, indeed, is happy with a large family, is treated almost like an unwanted citizen. However those people are makin;; the greatest contribution that can be made to the future wellbeing of this nation. I am appalled that the Government considers that child endowment is no longer an important area of political activity. It is important in the eyes of the Democratic Labor Party. We do not run around and suggest that everybody should have 5, 6 or 7 children because that is a matter for the individual. However such people certainly should not be economically squeezed as a result of having families of that size. 
Recently i was talking to the daughter of a personal friend of mine, a man of great character who once graced another House of this Parliament. This woman is a nurse and is the mother of 6 children. She is in her early 30s and she has lost a child. We were at a social function. She is a most vivacious person and I think she was one of the best looking young ladies there. She does nursing for 2 afternoon shifts a week in order to help supplement the family budget.  Her  home is spotless and you never see her without a smile on her face. She is successfully rearing 6 children, the eldest of which is about 10 years of age.  Her  family is her life and when you talk to her about the permissive society today she laughs and asks: 'What have I got to be sad about: this is the most wonderful thing that can happen to anybody'. We have people like that in our community who have to care for 6 children. There are others who are not emotionally equipped to do the same thing or who may not have had the advantage of the training that this young woman has had to fit her for a wonderfully useful life not only for herself but to her husband and 6 young dependent Australians. 
Why should such a woman be looked upon as a misfit in our community, as she is by many people today? I believe that people of this sort should receive from our social services the necessary assistance at least to meet the extra sales tax that they have to pay on behalf of 6 children. When those children attend school that mother will have to buy six 15c ball point pens. People with smaller families have to buy only one or two pens at the beginning of the school year but the mother of those 6 children will be paying 5c tax on every one of those 15c pens. At least, if child endowment is not keeping pace with the inflated prices it ought to be keeping p.ice with the inflated taxes that are imposed through sales tax measures upon people with larger families. 
We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party believe that the provision for the wives of aged pensioners to be brought within the scope of social services is only sensible. For years now, there has been a large discrepancy in regard to payments to husband and wife. Perhaps a husband has leached retirement age and the wife, who has done nothing else but housework, may be in her early fifties. No proper provision has been made for her to enjoy social services. Within this category, there is a large group of people who still have dependant children living at home. All sorts of devices have been used to have the wife declared to be in charge of an ailing husband if the husband has any sickness at all. I pay full credit to officers of the Department of Social Services who have often assisted in these sorts of cases. Indeed, very often I have known of cases in which, as a temporary measure, such people have beer able to register as unemployed so that they can receive at least for a limited period the unemployment benefits which are available in the community. 
Having criticised the Government in regard to child endowment and maternity allowances I state that I believe that very worthwhile steps have been taken in this 
Budget. We propose to move a further amendment which I now foreshadow and read to the Senate. If the amendment is defeated we will accept the opportunity to speak on the measure. We will move to add the following words at the end of the motion: 
But the Senate is of the opinion that a just, adequate and comprehensive social service system can be achieved only by the creation of a contributory national superannuation scheme and that pending the establishment of such a scheme pension rates should be determined by an independent tribunal of experts including pensioner representation. And the Senate is also of the opinion that this Bill should have provided for increases in child endowment rates and maternity allowances which are long overdue for adjustment. 
-I. move: 
At end of motion add -  but the Senate is of the opinion that a just, adequate and comprehensive social welfare system can be achieved only by the creation of a contributory national superannuation scheme and that pending the establishment of such a scheme, pension rates should be determined by an independent tribunal of experts including pensioner representation, and the Senate is also of the opinion that this Bill should have provided for increases in child endowment rates and maternity allowances which are long overdue for adjustment. 
I shall speak to the proposition very briefly because the subject has been well canvassed. I believe that everybody would be in favour of the proposal in the amendment relating to a contributory national superannuation scheme, although there would be some contest of ideas on the establishment of an independent tribunal of experts to determine pension rates. It has been said that it would not be practicable to have such a tribunal. We have heard most of these arguments before, but the question remains whether the arguments have been valid. Decisions affecting much activity in our economy is entrusted to expert tribunals. In the case even of some industrial crises which have taken place, particularly in the primary industries, the Government often has been guided by expert tribunals which have suggested what is required to save an industry from oblivion. The Government's main function in these instances has been to give the suggestion legislative enactment and to provide the money to implement the scheme. 
The proposition contained in my amendment is not a suggestion to establish some irresponsible body that will not consider a!l aspects. The great wage tribunals of this country when allowed to operate untrammelled take into consideration all factors that are necessary for the well-being of the whole community and when they come to fix wages they do not decide that someone should have a certain increase simply because he needs it or for some similar reason; they decide whether industry can afford to pay and whether the economy can stand the increase which is proposed. The tribunal that I have suggested would take living standards of pensioners out of the political arena. No government, whatever its political complexion, can deny thai pensions become a political football. I do not wish to raise a controversy in any shape or form, but one could easily suggest that it was because of its receding popularity that the Government suddenly found that the needs of pensioners were such as to warrant their receiving an increase in the current Budget. Even if that were not true, the Government must admit that at least prima facie it appears to be true. 
Although the Government has been able to afford this increase, only 6 months earlier it decided that it was not possible to grant an increase. Anybody who argues that this area of social services does not become a political football is not facing the political facts of our time. It is a political football which is used by political parties when they are in office and when they are in opposition. When a political party is in opposition it often has no idea whether what it is advocating on behalf of pensioners is possible, but it will use this means to gain favour. We believe that an independent tribunal would be a sensible approach to this problem in a modern community. On many occasions we have made suggestions which at the time have appeared to b£ radical if not impossible of application, but the Government eventually has come round to our way of thinking. We hope that the Government will accept this suggestion. There is no reason why there should not be pensioner representation on the tribunal to tell the Government of the pensioner's needs. Someone should present the picture from their side. What happens at the moment? The Government makes its own assessment. Members of the Government are not pensioners. The Government has its experts who are highly paid public servants, but they have little or no appreciation of the circumstances of pensioners. I believe that with these salient points we can leave the matter to the good sense of honourable senators. 
Surely no-one would suggest that the one increase in child endowment over 12 months ago or the increased maternity allowances are adequate or thai the increases have been sufficient to cope with the inflation that has taken place. In present circumstances a family can be regarded as a burden, but that burden should be removed from this category by lifting the rates to a more realistic level when compared with costs and charges in the community. We feel that maternity allowances have not been anything like adequate for a considerable period, despite the hospital benefits that are payable to those people who can afford to belong to hospital benefit funds. What is to happen to those people who cannot afford to belong to the funds? We believe that the proposition contained in the amendment is sensible and we commend it to the Senate. 
I wish to speak very briefly on the Bill. I do not wish to recount the statistics that have already been given. What has been said of the purposes of the Bill fits in with the general philosophy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to which I belong. It is a step, as has been suggested by the Opposition, that perhaps may be overdue. That is a matter of opinion. The problem of looking after aged people has been a growing one for a considerable period of time. Probably the advance of medicine and many other of the related sciences has enabled us to prolong life beyond the point which was once known or expected. I believe that increased expectancy of life has caught modern day communities in general, and not necessarily in Australia alone, a long way behind in the provision of the sort of facilities which will prove the quality of life of this age group. This is particularly so because these people have reached the age at which they cannot depend on income from their own earnings but are dependent upon social services which are their right. We have found that there has been a general inability, particularly where ill health intervenes to cope with the problem of the magnitude that it has become because of the increasing numbers of people who now survive through to this age group. Therefore, rather than apportioning blame we prefer to suggest that, although it is high time that something was done, it is encouraging to see that we are stepping forward as a community to provide an improved quality of life for the people who come within this category and that we are doing this at the very essential levels of human life as we know it - that is to provide decent standards of homes and accommodation for them. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has been known for one thing, if for no other: We have taken it to ourselves to fight for the establishment of a better quality of life, not from the cradle to the grave, but even before the cradle, to protect those who are not at that point of time able to protect themselves. In an age when there has been much thinking about the obvious problems, we feel that there are many things that the community ought to guarantee to society but which have been overlooked. Indeed, the stresses of public propaganda are being placed in areas which we feel will not improve the quality of life for anybody, and certainly not for everybody. Some of the easy and slick solutions to what may appear to be growing problem very often can create so much unhappiness, mental strain and terror that in themselves they are not cures at all but begin something that is far, far worse. 
The legislation before us is in a step in the right direction. We applaud it for what it is. We indicate our wholehearted support for this measure. However, we do not feel that by any means it is the end of the road. As long as mankind is able to lift his standards, improve his knowledge and increase his efficiency we will never reach the end of the road. I believe that we are doing something that has never been done before in the history of man. I believe that the vision splendid that lies before us can be enormous as we gradually correlate all our forces to head in the one direction. This is a non-political matter and we would not engage in any way in making politics out of it. Any government which brings forward a step which is in the right direction gets praise and wholehearted support from the Australian Democratic Labor Party. My Party and I support the legislation. 
The matter of urgency which has been proposed by the Australian Labor Party is not one which the Australian Democratic Labor Party can support. We had expected that if a move of this character was to be made there would have been a far more worthwhile motion containing some positive propositions which could have enabled some action to be taken to clarify the situation. However, what we have before us is a political statement which is merely a criticism of the Government. One cannot help thinking that on the eve of an election it is an attempt to make political capital from an incident that has occurred and that if this situation had not arisen we would not have heard anything of the matters contained in the Labor Party's resolution. The Labor Party would not have been concerned about the employment of the people if that matter had not suddenly been drawn to its attention. I think the whole proposition goes much further than that and 1 propose to develop that suggestion in the course of my remarks. First 1 shall deal with some of the suggestions that were made by the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright). 
The stand which has been adopted in this case frankly surprises me. There is a responsibility on the Federal Government of Australia in the matter of trade, irrespective of what is the situation between the States. We accept that trade is a highly controversial matter between the States because they are rivals for trade. Different States want to sell gas and the Australian Gas Light Co. in Sydney will be the buyer. It is natural that there should be State rivalries in supplying that market. A solution to this problem which would be popular in one State would not necessarily be popular in another State, nor can we expect there to be complete co-operation between the States throughout the whole of Australia. If we accept this we begin to wonder why the proposal of the Australian Labor Party is so innocuous. Is it the position that the Premier of South Australia is very keen to sell the gas and, being of the same political complexion, for this reason the resolution has been broken down to the innocuous proposition which has been brought into the Senate today? One could gain that impression from what one reads in the newspapers. 
One can come to no other conclusion, perhaps, than that the Australian Labor Party does not care where the pipe comes from, so long as South Australia can sell its gas to Sydney. As a short-range policy that might be a quite justifiable attitude for the South Australian Premier to take. There are other people in Australia today who, like the Minister for Works, suggest that because of our terms of trade Japan may not trade with us in wool and iron unless we take from Japan things such as the pipe which is the subject of this contract. I do not accept that suggestion. I have made a study of the Japanese economy and Japan's situation. Japan is very dependent upon primary materials, some of which it can obtain from Australia only and others which it can obtain not so exclusively from Australia but more conveniently from this part - of the world because it fits in with the trading policies that she has developed. 
When Japan has such a favourable balance of trade with many of the great trading powers she is not concerned about an unfavourable trade balance which she realises that she must maintain with a country so numerically small as Australia. In her own interests, in the interests of her manufacturers of textiles, fabrics or other products, she will pressure Australia to take more, but she will not be offended by the terms of trade to such an extent that she will refuse to buy from us the raw materials in relation to which at the moment she is able to conduct a massive economic drive throughout the whole world. So long as she is able to get iron ore from Australia so that she can build the huge tankers of 100,000 tons which she sells to Greek shipping merchants and others in order to boost her economy she will not refuse to buy that iron ore merely because Australia has an unfavourable trading balance. I reject that argument in its entirety as being irrelevant. 
I warn  Senator Georges  who is interjecting- 
 Senator Georges  has just anticipated my warning. I hear members of his Party time and again in this place asking why we are not trading more with China and why we have not people stationed there making representations on our behalf. At this very moment  Mr Tanaka  is in China. Those people who suggest that, because this contract for steel piping has been let to Japan, automatically it will be Australian iron ore that will be come back in the form of pipes might be anticipating a situation that will not develop. The pipes might be made from China's iron ore. Those people who have been roaming this chamber for a long time screaming that Australia should conduct more trade with China might find that one of the very favourable markets that we have developed in the Pacific is related to the buying of pipes from Japan and that we do not have so much trade for China. 
The pipeline in question is very much open to debate. There is no certainty at this point of time that the pipeline will ever be required or that anybody will ever manufacture pipes for it. Yet the Australian Labor Party, in its urgency motion, wants to condemn the Government for creating unemployment. The facts are that the contract that has been signed is dependent upon the proving of the reserves, to start with, and that the supplying company is composed of the Burmah and Santos companies and a smaller American company called Delhi International Oil Corporation which has not approved the contract into which its partners have entered, and does not want to approve it, because it says that the price is too low and it fears that there are insufficient reserves. Some experts have said that there are insufficient reserves; some have said that there are sufficient reserves. 
Never mind about whose gas it is. The honourable senator can put that stupid line if he likes. I am dealing not with his imaginative wanderings but with the facts. The facts are that, as far as these companies are concerned, it is their gas because they have leases over the area which governments of this country have properly given them and they have invested capital to develop them. So, they are the ones who will sell or not sell the gas. The South Australian Government -  Senator O'Byrne  should know something about this - will reap some of the harvest in the form of the profits that come from the gas because a royalty has to be paid to it. 
The point I am making is that the Delhi company, which is a very interested party in the combination of companies that controls the oil and gas, has not signified its intention to be a party to the contract. It says that, even if the reserves are sufficient, it doubts whether the companies have the capital to develop the reserves in order to supply the gas. Yet the Labor Party comes along with an urgency motion that says that inside 3 or 4 days the Government has created unemployment. That is not the Democratic Labor Party's attitude. We believe that this incident has revealed the very urgent necessity for consideration of the matter by the Australian people. 
It is not a fact that the Australian companies concerned have been given the right opportunities to tender for the pipes. 1 refer to a statement that was issued by Tubemakers of Australia Ltd and reported in the Press in these terms: 
Tubemakers said in its statement on Friday: The pipe sizes specified by AGL were 30-inch and 36-inch, the quantities being approximately 700 miles of 30-inch and 87 miles of 36-inch. 
Tubemakers of Australia says that it was never informed that the requirement was for 34-inch pipes and that what it tendered for was the supply of 30-inch pipes because that was the specification. It claims, as reported in this article which was published in the 'Australian Financial Review' last Friday or Saturday, that it was never asked to tender for the size of pipe for which it is alleged a contract is being negotiated and therefore was unable to submit a tender for it. 
In spite of the Minister's statement and in spite of the wild speech which we heard from  Senator Murphy  and which meant nothing at all except that the Labor Party was saying that the members of the Gov- ernment were a Jot of naughty boys, we have to consider the fact that the Government has some control over this situation because this pipe is subject to a 35 per cent duty. If it cannot be made in Australia, because of the nature of the contract and the need for the development of this country there could be some justification for a remission of that duty so that Sydney consumers of gas would not have to pay a higher price to cover the cost of the duty that is payable on the pipe. If the pipe can be produced in this country, I doubt that the Government has the same right to remit the duty that is payable on the pipe. It is obvious from the statements made by the Australian companies that could tender that they could not supply all of the pipe that will be needed. The Minister is right in that assertion. Therefore the Government will be faced at some lime, if this project comes to fruition, with considering whether it will remit the duty on the whole of the contract or on a part of the contract, and that must inevitably cause a reconsideration of tenders from Australian companies because if the duty is not remitted it will add enormously to the cost of the pipeline, which will be increased by more than one-third. 
The Democratic Labor Party has given this matter very serious consideration. Tomorrow we will give notice that on the next day of sitting of the Senate we will move that the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade: 
The report that the Australian Gas Light Co. is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation for the manufacture and supply of steel pipes for the proposed natural gas pipeline from Moomba natural gas field in South Australia to Sydney, which would deny Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunity to fabricate and supply the required steel or any part of it. 
The Democratic Labor Party believes that it would require very strong evidence indeed to justify handing over the whole of a contract of this magnitude, relating to Australia's fuel resources, to a wholly overseas company. We propose to take that positive action so that a full inquiry can be made into all aspects of this matter, ls Tubemakers of Australia right when it says that it was not given the size of the pipe correctly; that it was given 30 inches and 36 inches as the sizes of the pipe and now the contract is alleged to be for 34-inch pipe all the way? Is it a fact that the contract for the supply of gas is under as many shadows as it seems to be from the newspaper reports we have had of the disputations between the companies controlling the Moomba basin? I believe that all these matters have to be taken into consideration before a real decision can be made on the question. 
This highlights the need for Australians to begin to realise that, on a State basis, this area could be very competitive. The question could arise whether Victoria, South Australia or somebody else would gain a massive contract to supply Sydney. In America today many areas are running out of supplies of this very commodity, lt may well be doubtful whether it is a very good idea for South Australia to be entering into a contract of this magnitude, which may denude that State of potential for industrial development by the use of cheap fuel, merely to supply Sydney which might be able to obtain supplies from somewhere else. Where is the policy of decentralisation in that? If it is necessary to prove the reserves and they are in so much doubt, it would appear that it is lime we had an overall authority to investigate and study the whole matter in the interests of Australia as a whole. Already we are receiving warnings from experts who claim that Australia would be foolish to engage in the over-export of this type of fuel and denude the ability of its industries at some future stage to compete on world markets for the products that can flow from an industry of this nature. 
I know that my time is short; I have only 15 minutes in which to make this speech. I conclude by reminding the Senate of the constructive action that we suggest in the motion of which we will give notice tomorrow and which I have already read to the Senate. It is a constructive action that will enable the making of a full inquiry designed to ascertain the facts. It will not be a rushed action designed to gain a few lousy votes in an election by condemning the Government over something which it has not yet had time to consider. I hope that when the Government considers this problem in depth it will come down with solutions that will be in the interests of Australian industry and the employment of 
Australian men. I hope that it will not run away with the idea that Japan is buying iron ore from us because she has to. 
I give notice that on the next clay of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the following matter - The report that the Australian Gas Light Company is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation for the manufacture and supply of steel pipes for the proposed natural gas pipeline from Moomba natural gas field in South Australia to Sydney and whether this would deny Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunity to fabricate and supply the required steel or any part ofit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
What was the result of the Dairying industry Equalisation Legislation Referendum held in 1970. 
Has the decision of the Referendum been carried out, or has the Government endeavoured to force  a  2 price quota plan on the Dairying Industry. 
Are dairymen in Victoria being subjected to pressure to accept a restrictive production plan under threat of a reduction in subsidy, despite clear evidence that there will be an increase in overseas markets in the foreseeable future. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN- The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Al the referendum held in 19/0 more than 95 per cent of dairy farmers who voted were in favour of legislation providing statutory support for the existing voluntary dairy produce equalisation arrangements. 
It was made clear in the Second Reading Speech on the Dairying Industry Levy Bill tha'  a  compulsory equalisation scheme for a particular product or products would not be implemented unless there was a specific need created such as by the withdrawal of an important manufacturer from the present voluntary equalisation scheme. To date the need to implement the legislation has not arisen. The legislation was designed to provide a firmer foundation for the industry's organisation and to enable it to proceed with the necessary planning to meet the problems of the industry. 
The proposals for a 2-price quota scheme for the dairying industry were submitted to the Government by the Australian Dairy Industry Council as part of its proposals for a new dairy industry stabilisation plan to operate for 5 years from 1st July 1972. There is no question of the Government endeavouring to force a 2-price quota plan on the industry. 
Dairy farmers in Victoria are being subjected to pressure to accept a production control scheme not by the threat of  a  reduction in subsidy but by the threat of a complete breakdown  of  the equalisation arrangements because of the erosion in producers unit returns in all States which their increased production has caused, particularly when overseas markets are depressed. The situation has been reached where some States are not prepared to continue contributing towards the losses from surplus disposalswhen world prices are depressed unless a greater proportion of the losses is borne by those States which are responsible for building up the surpluses. 
The general opinion is that there is not likely to be any significant place in the United Kingdom market for Australian butter and cheese in the enlarged EEC. The main problem will be to find outlets for butter in the limited markets outside the United Kingdom. The supplies which will be available from Australia, New Zealand and other countries could place tremendous pressure on these markets and lead  to  depressed prices. The industry has accepted that it will be in its long term interests for future production to be kept at  a  level which can be sold at satisfactory prices. 
I wish to speak to the amendment that is before the Senate rather than to the Bill. The Australian Democratic Labor Party, with all other parties, is in agreement with the proposition contained in the Bill. The amendment does not mean necessarily that a Senate select committee would be set up. It merely expresses the opinion that the Senate feels that a select committee should be set up to inquire into all aspects of war service land settlement. It must be assumed from the amendment as it is worded that it would necessitate a subsequent resolution of the Senate to carry out the actual function of setting up a committee about which the Senate has expressed an opinion the course of the debte on this amendment that such a committee should be set up. The DLP is not of the opinion that such a committee should be set up at this stage even if its activities were to be confined to the States that are mentioned in this Bill. There is no certainty that that would be the ultimate decision of the Senate on the matter nor would there be a limitation to that extent. If the committee were actually set up, it cou'd be done on a much broader basis than that. 
Our view on this question is largely confined to the area of consideration that the setting up of further Senate committees at this time is completely impractical, anyway. The members of Senate select committees that are functioning at present are trying to carry out the most careful research into the problems of the nation while meeting over lunch and eating their sandwiches. We maintain that a committee cannot function properly in those circumstances. We just do not have the manpower. With the Senate standing committees now functioning, together with the Senate select committees that are in the process of producing reports at the moment, it is not a logical proposition to set up any further committees. 
Dealing with the subject that is contained in the amendment, we feel that the whole matter of land settlement and primary industry in this country is something that must fit into the general pattern of the economy. In the economy there should be a place for war service land settlement that has served this nation and its citizens very well in the past. It has not always been successful, but in many areas it has been.It has given to men who have served this country in time of war and who have the necessary ambition and drive at lest an opportunity to see whether they can succeed in this area. It necessarily follows that when such an opportunity is created, it is not inevitable that everyone will succeed. 
This applies particularly in the area of primary industry where the farmer battles with the elements as well as with the ordinary circumstances of business and the economy of the nation. Indeed, he has to grapple with the added influence of world prices that are unpredictable and that we cannot control. 
We support the principle of the man on the land. We believe that in a country of the nature of Australia it should be among the ambitions of our people to further develop even that land which may be considered today to be so arid that is is impossible to develop. It may compare in many respects with parts of Israel that today are blooming gardens in arid deserts because the Israelis have seen fit to use the ingenuity of man to tackle the problems of nature. We feel that all those things are part of the further development of primary industry in this country to meet the requirements of a demanding and expanding world population. They are not necessarily matters that are limited to war service. Indeed, if there were to be inquiries of this character we feel that they should be far wider than merely being limited to the war service level alone. This is within the competence of the departments as they now exist and the Parliament can consider the measures by debate as they are brought forward. If there are specific areas such as that mentioned in the amendment about the level of rentals. I do not believe that a Senate select committee can do any more than can the Parliament to obtain the relevancy of the economic factors that may have a relationship to the method of valuations, the rentals that are demanded and even the option of purchase prices and how they may fluctuate. We do not see the necessity for expressing an opinion that a committee should be set up for this purpose in view of the pressures and strains that are placed on Senate committees at the moment. We propose to support the legislation as it stands as it is completely necessary to cany on the functions of land settlement for the returned servicemen in the States that are outlined in the Bill. 
Question put: 
Thai the words proposed 10 be added  (Senator Wilkinson's amendment)  be added. 
I believe firstly that we should seek a perspective which is a little closer to the provisions of the Bill that the Senate is debating tonight I have listened to honourable senators saying that by the passage of this Bill we will grant the wonderful right of adult franchise to people who are under 21 years of age but not younger than 18 years of agc. We should have clear at the very beginning that that is not the purpose of this Bill at all. Under our electoral system and our electoral legislation, the right or the privilege to vote is not granted to anyone, whether that person be 18 years of age or 58 years of age. We impose upon these people the obligation to vote. Voting is compulsory in Australia. We do not grant the right or the privilege to vote. The responsibility to vote is imposed on people. It is important to understand this fact about our whole voting system: otherwise we will waffle about a philosophy that does not exist in our community at all. 
The responsibility to vote in elections is imposed on those so designated by Aci. of Parliament. We vote under a specific system at the moment. Some people w:&lt;.h to change that system. I propose at a later stage to discuss this matter in relation to the amendment that my Party has moved to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I wish to be quite sure that we all understand what we are voting on.  Senator O'Byrne  raised the question of the popularity of this action. He said that young people of this agc group in our community are pounding on the doors wanting the wonderful privilege of the right to vote. But if this legislation is passed these people will not be given that privilege at ail. By this Bill we will impose on people of 18 years of age an obligation to vote. If they do not vote, they will be fined. 
This is not what has been done in South Australia. The Labor Government there amended its electoral legislation so that voting by persons under the age of 21 was voluntary. The South Australian Government conceded to young people the right to say: 'I believe that I am old enough and that I have interested myself sufficiently in these matters to be qualified to vote. The Government is now permitting me 'o vote'. That is one thing. The amending Bill now being debated, merely changes the age at which a person is called upon to vote. But we do not create the South Australian position by passing this legislation. By agreeing to this Bill we will say to every person 18 years of age and over not that he may consider whether he is sufficiently interested in voting or wishes to exercise the right to vote, but that that person will vote or we will fine him for not voting. That is the meaning of what we are discussing tonight. 
My Party has a policy that is in favour of lowering the electoral voting age to 18. We make no apologies about that policy. But an argument can be made as to whether such a legal obligation should be imposed upon these young people, even if honourable senators stand by the belief that many of these young people today are interested in voting and desire the right to vote. I do not agree with those who suggest that these people are in the majority. Most of the people at this age are interested in matters quite different from the right to vote or electing governments. Most people of this age today are not very much different in their outlook from what we were when we were their age. They are much more interested in selecting likely husbands or wives for the future rather than deciding who should represent them in Parliament. This is a pretty absorbing activity for those in the 18-year-old age group. It is sufficiently interesting to completely absorb the interest of people in this age group often to the exclusion of everything else. I do not know that this is not a pretty natural and wonderful process. I do not know that we should interfere with it to the extent that we impose upon these young people obligations which might divert them from those things that are a natural attraction to their age group. They are more interested in these matters than those matters of State which interest a lot of old fogies, as they would describe those who have had the honour to be elected to represent the people in these halls of legalisation in which we determine the laws that are imposed upon those who elect us. Do not let us deceive the 18-year-olds by saying we are going to give them something. We are going to impose something on them. In my opinion the majority of young people do not like having anything imposed on them. Most adults would agree with this if they are honest because the young people of today, much more than those of my generation, are not used to having anything imposed on them. Many of the problems which young people face today arise from the fact that they challenge anybody to impose anything at all on them, be it to have their hair cut or to wear a tie or even, in Canberra, to wear shoes when attending lectures at the Australian National University. 
When 1 as a boy I and others of my generation were lucky if we had shoes. If we got them, we wore them. Yet today when everybody has shoes it is fashionable to defy authority and to say: 'If you impose upon us an obligation to wear shoes, we will not wear them.' I have no doubt that for many young people the compulsion to vote will have exactly the same effect and they will want to challenge the old fogies in Canberra who impose this obligation on them and will say: 'We refuse to vote.' The Parliament will have to deal with that problem if it passes this proposition. 
When one considers the history of the franchise and then considers  Senator Webster's  argument as to who are the best people and whether 18, 19, 17 or any other age is the most appropriate, I suppose the only way one could draw a lin of this character is by an age group. It is impossible to assess everybody's interest in politics or to assess their intelligence in an area and to judge whether they have reached an age at which it is appropriate for them to vote. If we are honest about it we must accept that the only practical attitude is to fix a standard agc group and to accept the consequence - as we do with other people. I have heard some say they will vote for a certain Party and I am inclined to think it was foolish to have given them the right to vote because they do not seem to be applying that right intelligently. The history of the franchise shows that in early times it was not granted to everybody but to selected groups who were were alleged to be the intelligentsia. If they were no more intelligent than the intelligentsia of today, had 1 been in their community 1 would have challenged their selection. However, being of the intelligentsia was not the only criterion by which one was judged to be capable of making a wise choice from among those who were likely to govern. Wealth was another. Eventually, however, that system was broken down and the adult franchise was achieved. One great slogan which led to this achievement was that there should be no taxation without representation People believed that the qualifying line for the vote was the payment of taxes. In the rotten boroughs of England a valid slogan for people demanding the right to the franchise was 'no taxation without representation'. Today some perhaps would argue that the reverse holds good - 'no representation without taxation', ff that is accepted, and if what I see as the only practical course is adopted - that is tj give the vote to 18-year-olds - the Government would preclude many in that age group from electing a representative to say what should be done with the taxpayers' money since they themselves would not yet be taxpayers. Many people today do not become taxpayers until they are much older than 18. Many who fought for the right to be exempt from tax if they were not represented would see an anomaly in having representation without paying for it. Others would argue that young people could have a voice in saying how the taxpayers' money was to be spent although they provided some of it and were still dependent on their parents or on scholarships or some other means of subsistence to complete their education. I do not think we should be so harsh, though it is an argument that can be used. 1 believe the only simplified method for the franchise is qualification on an age basis and. all things considered, about 18 years is a more appropriate age than 21. 
My Party's policy is simply representation for 18-year-olds but I do not think it has ever really considered whether they should be compelled to vote. [ would prefer to see a buffer period fixed between the ages of 18 and 21 before requiring the compulsion as prescribed by the Electoral Act to be applied to young people. Even today many aged 21 simply fill in the electoral enrolment form, after they have been reminded a dozen times, and send it to the Post Office without having any interest at all in voting. Political sensibility comes with marriage and the acceptance of the responsibilities of life. That is when people think more seriously about matters that are of more concern to the whole community than they previously conceded them to be. This is the pattern for average people leading an average life. But in making that statement I concede that people are not the same and that they are not born equal. We are all different from one another. The great majority do not accept the responsibilities of adulthood until they have decided to share their lives and to accept the ordinary processes of marriage and rearing a family. This is the maturing factor which changes a young person into an adult. 
That is, of course, where it is possible to change him. Some married people - and some single people - live a lifetime without ever achieving the dignity of adulthood. The services of marriage guidance counsellors are sought because one partner to a marriage never achieves true adulthood. The reasons may be in the educational structure of the educational system or the structure of some families. But this is an indication that it is impossible in our community to achieve absolute perfection. 
I return to my original point that a line must be set on an age basis and to that extent the Democratic Labor Party supports this Bill. However, we cannot do so merely on that simple plane. We must take cognisance of those who have placed the proposition before the Parliament. We doubt the sincerity of some of them. The Labor Party has moved this proposition through its Leader in the  Senator (.Senator Murphy)  who has suggested that the proposition should be discussed now. Not all members of the Labor Party agree on the points we have raised in the amendment to the motion for the second reading. A small percentage of the membership of the Labor Party are students and have an interest in the political system. In several States they have accepted positions on committees of inquiry set up by the Labor Party. 
I know the circumstances in my own State of Victoria. A very strong recommendation was brought down for the introduction of the voting system that we of the Democratic Labor Party outlined in our amendment. We fail to see how the 
Australian Labor Party can have a great and sincere interest in suddenly granting the franchise to 600,000 people of more in a particular age group when at the same time it wants to take the franchise away from 500,000 people in the age group that already has the right to vote. The objective of those in the Labor Party who want to change the electoral structure to include the first past the post system is plain and obvious. It is to take from every person in the Australian community who votes for the Democratic Labor Party - there are close enough to 500,000 of them - the right to have an effective franchise. That is their purpose. 
No, but you want to limit them so that they cannot vote for the people they want to vote for, or so that their vote is ineffective in the final result. If  Senator Georges  is not intelligent enough to know our present electoral system of preferential voting, it would be useless for me to try to explain it to him. The sole purpose of the Australian Labor Party is to do away with the system known throughout the world as the Australian system because we pioneered it. It is used in such progressive countries as the Scandinavian countries where they refer to it as the Australian system. The preferential system gives a clear decision, in the final analysis, on what the electors want out of the final 2 people remaining in the ballot. Nobody can be elected with a minority of votes. Each person elected must be able to say before taking office that he was elected by 50 per cent plus one, or more, of the voters in his electorate once the contest is resolved. I say that because ultimately 2 candidates remain and all the voters select one of the final 2 candidates. 
The system favoured by the majority of members of the Labor Party makes voting a political football. Members of the Labor Party come here and say very sincerely: 'Is it not dreadful that our age limit is so high that we are disenfranchising 600,000 teenagers who are now intelligent enough to vote upon reaching 18 years of age?' Then in the next breath they prove their insincerity by saying that they want the first past the post system because it will disenfranchise the rock that stands in the way of their obtaining office, namely, the 500,000 people who want to vote for the Democratic Labor Party. The Labor Party says that it will let those people vote for the Democratic Labor Party but it will make their votes ineffective in the final analysis by having the first past the post system. 
Committees of rather more responsible people, students of the question, have been set up by the Labor Party and they do not agree with that idea. The committee set up in Victoria came down very strongly in favour of proportional representation because it represents a sincere expression of electoral reform. It is true electoral reform. First past the post voting represents just about as much electoral reform as what I hear described in the community today as abortion law reform. In my opinion, abortion law reform is just the abolition of the abortion laws. That is ali it  is.  It finally comes down to a person saying: If I do not want to have a baby and do not want to be inconvenienced by it, 1 should not have to have it'. Therefore some people want to amend the laws of society so that they can do this and not be outside the law. All that abortion law reform means is the abolition of any laws relating to abortion. I do not mind people advocating that if that is their view of what is best for society, but I do object to the fact that they call it abortion law reform. 1 object also when people refer to first past the post voting as electoral reform in a community which has progressed to the stage we have of establishing a system of voting. Tt is not perfection; it could not be that. 1 doubt whether any system can provide the millenium but our system is far in advance of first past the post as a fair electoral system. Proportional representation allows every person in the community to express freely his political point of view without the penalty of disenfranchisement because he votes for a minority group. It is impossible to describe first past the post voting as a reform. It is merely a return to the impossible situation of bygone generations although it is still maintained in less democratic countries than ours. 
 Of course it is because inevitably it disenfranchises a great number of people in the community and makes them the exclusive property of the electoral system of a country under the control of parties that happen to be big, in power and popular at a particular time. 
 Senator Bishop  is drying to interrupt me. He has been a member of unions for many years and 1 know where, in fairness his heart lies. He supports the preferential system of voting as we have it today. 
 I could have answered him clearly if he had done so, and 1 can answer you. I was one of the people who reformed the electoral structure of the Legislative Council of Victoria. Ultimately I became a member of that august body under an adult franchise. In the beginning, all sorts of peculiar methods were used to select the people who were considered good enough to vote for it. People were given more than one vote on many occasions if they so qualified under the system of that day. They had to have a university degree. Surely today we do not consider that somebody has to have a university degree before being able to vote. Sometimes 1 am sufficiently simple minded to think that perhaps people with university degrees should not be given a vote. Maybe that is an inherent weakness in myself and perhaps it is mere jealousy. I do not know However, in bygone days a person had to have a university education or own certain land or property to be able to stand for the Legislative Council in the State of Victoria or to vote for those seeking election. We reformed that system with true electoral reform. 
Many of the people in  Senator Bishop's  Party today advocate first past the post voting as the millenium of all reforms because at this point, according to the votes his Party is now getting, it will advantage his Party. However, in politics that is always a very short range policy, because one never knows. I remember what was said by a prominent member of the Labor Party who is now an author and is retiring from the Parliament. When proportional representation was introduced to the Senate he said: 'Never again will we lose control of the Senate'. Things did not work out that way. It was electoral reform and it gave people and the minorities the right to have a say. At that time he did not foresee that people would change their mind about politics. Surely, if we are democrats, we agree that anybody at any time should be allowed to change his mind about politics. That prominent member of the Labor Party did not forsee that there would be minority groups in the community. He was so enthusiastic about saying that his Party would never be out of office that he rubbed his hands with delight, almost as if he had succeeded in a gerrymander. However proportional representation was not a gerrymander. It was true electoral reform that provided a fair system of representation for the people. When the minds of the people changed, instead of his Party being in office in this chamber forever, it has hardly been in office since. 
Therefore, I warn members of the Labor Party and those people who want to take the short cut of adopting first past the post voting as a method of electoral reform. Do not make hasty decisions on what you think are the political moves and attitudes of a democracy today, because unless you are prepared to abolish democracy you will receive a check in the future, which will surprise you. If members of the Labor Party alter the present system to first past the post voting, some day they will rue the decision. I do not believe that that form of voting will be reimposed upon the Australian people. I think that the Australian people are too wise. I merely bring this matter up to show why I believe we have every reason to doubt the sincerity of those who, talk on the one hand, talk of first past the post voting and then, in the corridors of this building say to me: 'We will get you one day. We will get first past the post voting'. This shows the personal venom and spleen which is behind what they call electoral reform. 
 The honourable senator might think it does. I have never heard him praising the Parliament at Westminister before. When a party to which he is opposed is in office he seems to find everything in the world is wrong with the British system that does not elect a Labor government. It very seldom elects a Labor Government, the honourable senator will happen to notice. When  Senator Murphy's  suggestion was introduced in England, I know that Labor people here and in London said that the Labor Party would win the election because of the 18-year-old voters. And the 18-year-old voters went along and voted for the other party. The honourable senator wants to be very careful before he starts holding up the Parliament at Westminister. At Westminister they may have first past the post franchise but it is granted to people who want to use it. It is not imposed upon them as an obligation. If people are given the right to vote or not to vote as they please that is one thing, but nobody is suggesting that we should alter the compulsory system which we have. At the same time we should not mess around with the preferential system which has gone hand in glove with compulsion. I ask the honourable senator not to prattle to me about the system at Westminister unless he wants to impose the whole of it on the Australian people and have voluntary voting as well as first past the post voting. Then perhaps the honourable senator may illustrate to the Australian people that the system at Westminister is better than the system we have in Australia. But he cannot pick what suits his Party the best. 
This proves the very point which I am arguing in relation to the insincerity of the whole matter. The honourable senator wants to have a look at the system in London and pick the eyes out of it to suit his argument. He knows in his own heart that this is not electoral reform in this country. It would be a retrogressive step in electoral matters. The fair thing would be to allow people to have representation in the Parliament in accordance with the number of supporters which the various groups attain in the community. We in our wisdom have suggested an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. It involves changing the Commonwealth Electoral Act not only in relation to age but also in sev eral other respects. During the debate on the second reading we will not discuss those paragraphs in the amendment which are questioned as to whether they are in order. We will do this in the committee stage of the Bill when the various paragraphs are before the chamber. But in relation to proportional representation which seems to be the only portion of the amendment valid in the second reading stage there is no question that it is electoral reform. If we are to broaden the Electoral Act to the extent of granting some form of franchise to people between the ages of 18 and 21 years we should take the further step of seriously considering whether minorities should have the right to representation in this chamber and in the other place in accordance with the number of people who vote for them. 
I know there is a valid argument that this can be carried too far. This is what I meant when I said that, after all, we cannot have a millenium because we must sometimes temper democracy to the stage where we make it work. Very often systems are devised which have taken the principle too far and made it somewhat impractical to obtain results. We have those examples before us. We should be wise because of the results. But there are other systems of proportional representation. Perhaps they are somewhat more limited than the complete application of the idea which shows quite clearly that it is possible to give representation which is in accord with that sought by the voters and, at the same time, retain the integrity of Parliament so that it can make positive decisions and not be disrupted as are some Parliaments in some countries where perhaps the system has been taken too far. They are in a situation where they do not have the certainty of continuity which enables them to govern in the interests of the people. 
After all, democracy is a fantastic ideal. Politically, it is probably the greatest achievement of the mind of man. But it too can have some limitations because in the final analysis it gives each and every one of us the right to govern one's self. If we wish to exist as a community we must realise the impracticability of this. The rights of each of us have to be limited by the collective rights of everyone else in the community. Whatever the laws might be and whatever the Parliament, if they are made by a parliament which has been granted majority rights by the community they are valid laws and they should be obeyed by all of us in the community. Indeed, the law makers should be the last ones to advocate that anybody should break the law; otherwise we get back to what may sound a very high ideal - the principle that every man has the right to govern himself. But if we wish to live in a community - as we all must because none of us is an island - we must depend upon each other for so much, particularly in our sophisticated and modern type of community. Even  Senator James  McClelland, who may hate my politics and not like me very much, to some limited extent depends upon me as I depend upon him because we are both members of the community. Neither of us can take that principle and say that our rights are such that they should obliterate the rights of our fellow man in the community. It is because of that principle that we put forward the amendment to this Bill. We hope that this chamber, with the wisdom which it always displays and for which it has shown much more aptitude in recent weeks, will follow the lead of the Australian Democratic Labor Party and vote for the amendment which it has moved to the Bill which is before the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Does the Minister agree with the opinion that has been expressed that in the Australian community there are more people with 2 jobs than there are people without a job at all? Will the Department of  Labour  and National Service have an inquiry made into the incidence of dual employment to ascertain the true situation? Could the Department establish relationships with unions and other interested bodies to stop dual employment so as to even out employment in our community? 
1 wish to support the motion and to congratulate  Senator Murphy  on bringing it before the Senate. The 2 industries which are most concerned in this matter are the tanning and shoe manufacturing industries, although also involved is the related leather goods industry which manufactures gloves, handbags, purses and articles such as those, which very often these days are not made of leather. I suppose that it remains one of the peculiarities of modern economics that we have allowed the completely free export of hides for as long as we have. The commodity is in short supply throughout the world today. Probably it cannot be processed to a greater degree in our own country before export because there are available now in many countries cheaper labour forces for processing this type of material. 
With the development of a new concept of exporting complexes, particularly in the emerging nations, there is a great opportunity for these nations to bring raw material from countries such as Australia straight to the wharf, which is practically alongside a new government created factory which may be leased to a big international combine, and there to process it and then ship it out from the same wharf, thus eliminating transport and other costs. This gives an advantage to the cheaper labour countries, particularly those in the Asian area in which there are longer hours of work and less beneficial employment conditions, in terms of annual leave and so on. Not having to provide these things, which are unknown in some countries, gives those countries an enormous advantage in the processing of leather and allied products. 
Tanning is a peculiar industry which has not changed a great deal over the centuries; the processes used today are similar to those which have always been used. The shoe industry probably is the most labour absorbing industry of all the apparel industries. Far greater labour resources are required to manufacture a man's shoe than a man's hat. Although those articles may retail at somewhat similar prices, there is a much greater variety of components in shoes and certainly much more complicated methods of manufacture are involved - even though they in themselves, have been simplified tremendously. One of the challenges to the shoe industry during the past 20 to 25 years has been the simplification of the process of manufacture because shoes do not have to be constructed as strongly as they used to be because people do not walk on wet pavements or through muddy streets, except in the developing areas of the big metropolises where some streets are unmade. Now people use motor cars whereas they once used to walk. So the requirement of the shoe industry has changed. 
For many years I have wondered, because I was employed in the shoe industry for nigh on 20 years, about the popularity in countries abroad of some Australian hides which were used comparatively rarely, particularly for shoe manufacture, in this country. Twenty years ago I was doing a research programme in the United States of America. Without question the most valuable and the best hides for leather for the manufacture of shoe uppers were wallaby and kangaroo hides. Shoe manufacturers here recognised it. In America those hides were highly prized and highly priced. In Australia the hides, even when tanned and produced as leather for manufacturing purposes, were comparatively cheap. The shoes were never as popular in Australia as they could have been because of the bramble scratches on the hides which gave them a scarred surface which had healed over but had left a mark on the hide. They were pitted and people did not go for them. Their durability, the suppleness of the leather and their wearing potential, when compared with calf skins or any of the other usual hides used for boot or shoe upper leather manufacture, were probably of the ratio of about  3  to  1.  America recognised it. Americans were prepared to pay high prices for shoes with bramble or scrub scratches on them where the animal had scratched itself going through the scrub, as kangaroos and wallabies do. We liked the very shiny calf skin which had been protected in a farmer's property and did not have very many scars on it, although it had nowhere near the durability of the other. 
I have wondered about these tricks of the industry. Why have not we popularised our product in our country more than we have? There seems no reason why there could not have been a complete ban on the export of kangaroo hides to a high wage level country such as the United States of America which is still, as I understand it, the main user of our kangaroo skins. That would have meant that the processing of that type of leather would have had to be done in this country and the processed leather would have been exported. We are not exporting to a country which can process the hide more cheaply than we can, unless it is being exported to American companies which have branches in countries where labour costs are somewhat cheaper than the labour costs here. 
The shoe industry has had to face the introduction of synthetics. Their introduction has had a very powerful influence on the industry. They constitute a real challenge. As I understand the position now, from the rather hazy information that I have, synthetics are one of the greatest challenges to the industry. The Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade could examine matters such as this. About a year ago when I was abroad - because of my background, I am a leather enthusiast - I brought a pair of shoes made from a product produced by the Dupont corporation. The product is called corfam I am wearing those shoes at the moment. After  12  months' wear I would defy anybody to distinguish them from leather. Both soles and uppers are made of corfam They seem to wear indefinitely. I understand that Dupont has removed this product from the market, for some reason or another. I do not know whether it is like the match that never wore out and it is ceasing to be a profitable product to place on the market. 
This is the sort of challenge that industries such as our shoe industry, a high absorber of labour, have had to face in this country. They have done it with little complaint to date. They have made their representations. The shoe industry has been granted reasonable tariff protection because of the low manufacturing costs and the low labour costs in many of the competing countries. In spite of that, it has still paid retailers in this country to import from the low wage countries of South-East Asia volumes of the cheaper type of footwear, which is very often made out of leather substitutes, to compete with the Australian industry. It is one of the factors that has had a depressing effect on the industry for a considerable number of years. As more simplified methods of production have been evolved and as sandals have become popular with the people, it has been found profitable to import this type of footwear to the detriment of a section of the industry that was a very valuable adjunct to the Australian shoe manufacturing industry as a whole. 
I do not want to go into the matter any further because the only requirement is for the Committee to establish that such an inquiry should be made. I limit myself to that statement, but if one wanted more information one would have to consider only the situation of big companies which were household names in this country, such as Bedggood Shoes Pty Ltd which was sold to an international company which ultimately closed the business merely to realise on the capital asset of the property. We support the motion. 
Sitting suspended from 12.47 to 10.15 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the Prime Minister's very welcome statement that taxation concessions were to be investigated in relation to expenses incurred by fully employed single girls who are raising children, I ask whether the concessions, if granted, will apply to deserted wives fully supporting children? At the same time, could the investigation cover the abnormal expenses incurred by deserted husbands or widowers who are in an identical situation of raising a family unassisted? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONThis is clearly a matter of policy, and I will have it referred to the Government in that sense. I will make one comment though: Speaking personally, I do not believe that the situation of the deserted husband is the same as that of the deserted wife where a family is involved, although they both have a tremendous problem. At a different level, in a charity field, I have had something to do with this matter. I personally do not believe that the situation of the deserted husband is in any way comparable with the overwhelming problems of a deserted mother who has kiddies with whom she has to stay and therefore cannot earn an income I do not think the situation of the 2 groups is relative, but I will refer the honourable senator's question as it has been asked. 
I move: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade the following matter - The report that the Australian Gas Light Company is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation for tha manufacture and supply of steel pipes for the proposed natural gas pipeline from Moomba natural gas field in South Australia to Sydney, and whether this would deny Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunity to fabricate and supply the required steel or any pan ot is. 
I have moved that motion because of the complete confusion that seems to exist in the public mind about the consequences of the statement made on about 20th September that this contract was to be let wholly to a Japanese company or to a collection of Japanese companies. Arising from that statement there was an immediate furore in the Press. There were so many conflicting statements that it seems obvious that there must be some inquiry in Australia of a national and responsible character to find out, firstly, what the situation is, and secondly, its consequences on the Australian work force and the Australian economy in general. 
This matter opens up an entire field of thought, particularly in view of the renegotiation of new trade agreements by many of our now traditional customer, Japan, with other countries. I refer, for example, to the recent agreement reached by Japan with the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on petroleum products. That is a market which Japan had not considered exploiting or purchasing from for quite a number of year. Then there are the recent trade agreements negotiated between Japan and the People's Republic of China. These have happened since the announcement about this pipeline. These developments cause one to speculate about their consequences on Australian industry. In the last quarter of a century we have become used to projecting ourselves so as to obtain markets in this area and. indeed, to purchase more because of the changing circumstances of our traditional markets in Europe. 
I do not want to prove or disprove that a particular newspaper is for or against one side or the other in connection with the manufacture and supply of these steel pipes but I want to quote from a newspaper report merely to show the confusion that exists. Immediately the announcement was made the Press began to take different sides and to publish conflicting reports about the consequences of the action taken by the Australian Gas Light Company in awarding this contract. There is extreme doubt about whether the contract for the supply of gas from the Moomba field in South Australia to Sydney will be consummated in its entirety. This is an extract from what the Sydney Morning Herald' had to say about this matter on 23rd September: 
The whole project, and hence reduced NSW energy costs, have been jeopardised largely on the basis of completely unsupported assertions that Australian jobs are threatened - the great rallying cry of Australian parochialism, protectionism, racialism and economic efficiency for more than a century. 
Well, what jobs are threatened? An examination of public comments leaves the matter in some doubt. 
The same article went on to say: 
In the opinion of this paper the real issue is whether or not local industry can supply pipe of comparable quality as cheaply and as quickly as Japan. AGL has stated categorically that it cannot. 
So much for the view of that, lt was referring to a statement published in the Sydney Morning Herald' on a prior date, the 21st September, in which  Mr Laurie  Short, National Secretary of the Ironworkers Association, had this to say: 
Australian ironworkers will refuse to lay the 760-mile gas pipeline from Moomba fields to Sydney, unless Australian manufacturers share in the pipe-manufacturing contract. 
The first article  1  read to the Senate - the second one published - indicates that there is very little knowledge in this country about this matter. Indeed, I share that lack of knowledge.  Mr Short,  in his statement on behalf of his organisation, did r.ot make any comments indicating that he had any knowledge of the relative cost factors involved in producing the pipes in the  2  countries, what tenders had been called for, or what information had been sought by the various tenderers or had been granted to them before they submitted lenders. He merely said that if the order were allocated as suggested by the Australian Gas Light Co. the ironworkers would refuse to lay the pipe. I see no way in which the Federated Ironworkers Association, as an interested party, could avail itself of all the relevant facts necessary in my view before responsibly making a decision that it was its prerogative or responsibility to protect the prosperity of other Austra'ian industries and the creation of employment in another Australian industry related to its own that may or may not arise out of the granting of this contract. This again shows the need for what the Democratic Labor Party is pressing for in moving this motion. 
Concern has been expressed in the Press by political parties about the extent of employment in this country today. We have seen many conflicting statements and this is becoming an electioneering and political issue. There can be many reasons for unemployment, as we well know. Certain steps can be taken on a governmental level to improve the potential of employment in a country. Steps can be taken also on a trade union level to spread more evenly the employment opportunities that exist. I refer to the fact that in some unions there is a very definite principle - indeed, they exert pressure under their own rules to enforce it - that no-one should have more than one job. We all know very well that in this country today there are many circumstances which force some people to seek 2 jobs. Those people with the necessary energy and initiative often engage in dual employment. Yet today there is a shortage of jobs; there is unemployment. 
The trade union movement would be in a very powerful position to spread employment more evenly if it adopted a total ban on the 2-job practice that exists in the community today. I am not advocating that course; 1 am merely pointing out that if a proper inquiry reveals that there is the genuine unemployment that some figures seem to indicate, there arc now many ways and means available to the Government which it has not had in some circumstances in the past when the economy of the country was unable to sustain employment. I refer to periods such as in the 1930s when very few people had one full time job, let alone the opportunity to enjoy a situation in which, if they wished, they could be dually employed, as is now possible and as is happening in the economy today. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)-  Order! lt being 2 hours after the time of meeting of the Senate, the orders of the day will be called on pursuant to standing order 127. 
in reply - Conscious that I am closing the debate I would like first of all to thank the honourable senators who have spoken to the motion that I have moved on behalf.of the Australian Democratic Labor Party for the very worthwhile comments that have been made during the course of the debate. In substantiating my argument that the Senate should carry the resolution as it has been presented, I would first of all reply to  Senator Webster  who made some criticism of the proposition that the questions that would be referred to the Committee virtually are answered in the proposition itself. I would remind him that the proposition itself in part says: 
The report that the Australian Gas Light Co. is proposing to conclude a contract with a Japanese corporation. . . . 
This would he one of the matters that would be referred to the Committee. That, of course, immediately opens up the question that the Committee itself can examine all aspects of the proposed contract, including the specifications that were requested, the tenders that were made, whom they were made by and what countries are concerned. That is the function of the Committee.  Senator Webster  suggests in turn that the Government already has relegated this matter to a professor who will do this. But he has already told us that the Department of Trade and 
Industry seems to be unable to produce the facts, and this is the very relevancy of the whole question that this matter should go before the Committee, because the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade can subpoena the people who let the contract, who prepared the specifications or who did anything else in connection with this matter. They could be brought before the Committee, placed on oath and evidence could be extracted. As far as I am aware no professor appointed by anyone has the power to elicidate the facts that have to be gained. 
It was very kind of  Senator Webster  to speak - I understand he was talking to the amendment - on precisely what had been done by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd in the production of steel. I have read about it in the newspapers too. But I would not state as an absolute fact that production of steel did take place because it is merely a statement which appeared in a newspaper which said that BHP had said that this had taken place. I believe that a Senate committee would establish whether it did or did not take place because the Australian Gas Light Co. has denied that there was any production of steel at all. This is the very controversy to which I referred in my introduction of the proposition that this matter had to be cleared up. I believe that only a committee of this Senate has the necessary powers to clear up these areas of doubt so that we know precisely what is being proposed before we act upon it. 

 Senator Webster said: 'Of course, the contract is let. It speaks for itself then, and the Committee has nothing to do to establish that the contract would deny Australian steel producers and suppliers the opportunities to fabricate and supply the required steel'. Although he says that the contract would, who knows what the terms of the contract are? We have read in the newspapers that some people say the contract is for the whole of the pipe line and some say it is for a portion of the pipeline and so on. What  Senator Webster  has said does not necessarily establish that our proposal for an inquiry into the contract that may be completed would inevitably establish that there is no place in it for Australian producers at all. It may establish quite the contrary. The Committee may find that the contract is sufficiently wide that there will still be room for the supply of a great deal of the contract by Australian suppliers. That is why the Australian Democratic Labor Party concludes its motion by saying, 'or any part of it', so that the Committee is completely free to establish all the facts in relation to this one particular proposition. 
This brings me to the amendment that was moved by  Senator O'Byrne  on behalf of the Opposition. I compliment  Senator O'Byrne  on arriving at very similar conclusions to what has already been thought out by the DLP. Very excellent propositions are contained in the amendment. But the DLP has deliberately excluded them from trying to elucidate the situation in relation to this one contract because of the tremendous ambit that is involved in the questions that are suggested. I think that  Senator Gietzelt  made this very clear in his remarks because in speaking to the amendment he drifted into the area of preserving flora and fauna and everything else. That is not an area for consideration by the Department of Trade and Industry. If we want an investigation into that aspect of laying pipelines anywhere in Australia then the reference should go to the Senate Select Committee on Social Environment. At least that Committee is obtaining some skills in investigation in that area. If that is the ambit of the amendment this matter should go not only to the Senate Select Committee on Industry and Trade but also we should cut up the various aspects and they should go to the various committees of the Senate which have been set up to inquire into such things. 
Can we leave it to the Government? I doubt very much whether the Government can call evidence and witnesses in the same manner in which the Parliament or the Senate can.  Senator Webster  would be as aware of that as I am because he is a hardworking member of many committees. As I made clear when introducing the motion, the urgency of it presses upon us because of the circumstances. 
The original proposal raised by  Senator Murphy  2 days after this matter broke condemned the Government for not taking specific action on a lot of newspaper reports. We thought that that was the wrong way to go about finding out what was involved in this in the interests of Australia and of doing something about it. Of course, at the same time the trade unions became involved. Laurie Short said. We will not lay the pipeline.' This could be very injurious not only to people who will be denied the employment of laying the pipeline but also to industry, consumers and housewives in Sydney who perhaps can see that their fuel bills may be cut by at least one-third all the more quickly with the introduction of this pipeline. If the Department of Trade and Industry does not know - the Government cannot be expected to know - it will tak? a committee which has power to question people under oath to find out what specifications were supplied to the people who were asked to submit tenders for this contract, to examine ali relevant details, and to come down with effective answers. How can trade unions decide that they are justified in saying that they will not lay the pipeline? They make that decision on the simple concept that they feel that Australian workers have been done out of a job. That may be a good concept on which to base the decision which they suggest they might make, but we are looking al the matter from an Australian point of view - from the point of view of all the people and all the interests which are involved. 
As I outlined at the beginning some of these interests conflict. But so that w? can obtain a basis on which to work we believe very firmly that this inquiry should concentrate on this particular proposition. We have thought about the amendment and again we find ourselves in agreement with the Australian Labor Party but we believe that the amendment would serve no good purpose. Indeed, it completely obscures the urgency of the proposition - we say that this proposition is urgent - by giving an investigation of this magnitude a time limit of 6 months. 1 suggest to the Opposition that, in all honesty, it could not expect a committee to come down with a reasonable report based on its amendment in a period of years. Such a committee would have to clarify the legal aspects or, in the words of the amendment: 
Legislative and administrative action which should be taken by the Commonwealth alone or in co-operation with the States . . . 
I suggest to the Opposition that if it wants some action it should get the States and the Commonwealth to agree on areas where these pipelines can best serve on an interstate basis. 
I do not suggest that once the pipeline gets to New South Wales whether it goes to the Hunter Valley or somewhere else is a matter for other States to be interested in. I believe that that is within the jurisdiction of New South Wales. The Australian Gas Light Co. is bringing this pipeline from Adelaide to Sydney and paying for it. Therefore it has a right to bring it in in a manner which does not interfere with the rights of anybody else and the rights which have been granted by the New South Wales and South Australian governments. It has every right to do that in the cheapest possible manner. But if the New South Wales Government or the Commonwealth Government wants to suggest deviations in the interests of future development which may be envisaged then it is for those governments to approach the company and for private negotiations to take place as to who is to bear the costs of the extensions or whatever may be involved, or whether any cost is involved at all. When it becomes a matter between the States and the Commonwealth then there should be a conference between those bodies. No Senate committee can iron that out. When it becomes a matter between the States that is a matter for conference between those States. These problems have been overcome in relation to rivers, waterways and water conservation in this country. A body has been set up which is composed of representatives from the States with the Commonwealth sitting in and taking a leading role in the organisation of these things, and that is very sensible. 
I assure the Australian Labor Party that if at any future time it is prepared to bring forward a constructive proposition in relation to this matter it will unhesitatingly obtain the support of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, lt has been suggested that this project which has caused all the flurry will lead to a contest of strength between employers and employees to the detriment of the country. It has been suggested in some newspapers that major finance companies in this land are venting spleen and are playing politics with each other because one company which had an interest in supplying the pipe also had an interest in supplying gas from another area and it set down terms which were not acceptable to the purchaser who is now going to establish the pipeline. It has been freely suggested in the newspapers that this is the reason why no clear specification seems to have been granted to the Australian suppliers of this pipe. We do not know whether that is a fact. That is another comment which has appeared in the newspapers. But a committee of the Senate can establish whether there is an element of truth in this sort of competition between these great companies which have been frustrated in the supply of gas at a price which they wanted. I am not here to say who is right or wrong. I do not know sufficient about the matter. I think that a senate committee could become sufficiently informed to be able to make a considered judgment. My motion is limited to the one specific case. I believe that if we want anything done it has to be limited to the one specific case. 
I do not propose to go further into the amendment moved by the Opposition than the reference to legislative and administrative action. All the other suggestions apply, perhaps, to all other pipelines which may be built. But we are concerned at the moment with only one pipeline because the one in Victoria has no relationship to the problem which is set out in this amendment. The Victorian pipeline runs only a short distance in comparison with the Moomba to Sydney pipeline. It runs from the Gippsland area to Melbourne and will continue on to serve other areas of Victoria. But that is purely a domestic affair within Victoria, lt has no real relationship to the magnitude of the proposition set out in the motion. 
We appreciate the debate which has taken place. We believe that everything which has been said has established quite clearly that if this Parliament wants to prevent a situation which, rather than being of benefit to the people of Australia, could cause complete chaos it will take the action which we suggest. The Senate should recommend to the Committee that it should take action in relation to this specific contract. The Committee should obtain the facts for the Senate and the Government, and for the Department of 
Trade and Industry which may not be in a position to obtain these facts for itself. Guided by these facts - as it has been guided in other cases - I am confident that any government of this country, whatever its political complexion, would take steps which are in the best interests of the nation. I do not see that the amendment moved by the Opposition will achieve this. T regret that my Party will be forced to vote against some of the excellent principles in the amendment. But if these principls are presented at an appropriate time and in an appropriate form which will enable something to develop, I believe that we could support it. But we cannot support the amendment when dealing specifically with the Moomba to Sydney project. 
The Bill before the Senate is a very simple Bill. It merely makes provision for the Commonwealth to grant moneys to the States for the purposes of Aboriginal advancement. The debate has strayed rather broadly from the topic of the Bill. I fail to see why the Bill even required an 11 page typed second reading speech from the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  to outline the activities of the Commonwealth in various other avenues of Aboriginal advancement, apart from grants given to the States for that purpose, to illustrate the point. If the Senate has strayed somewhat and if there have been lengthy speeches about matters not directly associated with the Bill, then I suppose honourable senators could hardly have been expected to do otherwise in view of the example of the Minister's second reading speech. I am in the situation of having been challenged hours ago about several areas and. therefore, with some reluctance I shall venture to make some replies. 
We of the Australian Democratic Labor Party support the Bill. We believe it is another step following steps already taken in the right direction towards solving the Aboriginal problem overall. We recognise that the Commonwealth is making grants to the various States for this purpose. There are great complexities in these problems. There are several problems, not one problem, and they are diversified in the various States as well as being different in character. Anybody who has given serious and sympathetic consideration to the problems of our Aboriginal people, firstly must realise the diversity of the problems, and the entirely different character of them. I refer to the fringe dwellers near the big cities, to those who live in isolated areas and to those who live in the remote parts of Australia and who still exist largely as nomads. They have survived in an environment in which possibly no other people, including ourselves, would have survived. 
Australia is much more aware today of a sense of responsibility towards these people. All of us, irrespective of our political parties, would criticise the days and the ages when we sought to make some contribution to this problem by providing handouts and merely succeeded in destroying a people and taking away their ambition and pride in themselves. Without those things they can never cross the enormous chasm that exists between the type of life their environment forced upon them and the type of life that we have been able to develop. We are now extending a helping hand to enable them to join us in our way of life. Whether it is a better way of life may be doubtful in some respects, but at least it is the type of life which has to be lived in this country because of the stage of its development. 
If history is to blame, then we have to blame it and pass on to other things because there is nothing before us except the inevitability that we must assist the Aboriginal people to become integrated into the community of a modern civilisation. I used the word 'integrated' with great care because my Party has thought deeply about the subject and draws attention to the difference between assimilation and integration. Assimilation forces upon these people, with their background, the obligation to accept all that we have and all that we stand for. Firstly, my Party does not think that this is possible and, secondly, we do not think it desirable that they should leave everything behind them that they have learned in order to survive in the type of environment in which they have survived. There is much of value to them as well as to us in what they have learned. 
At the outset of my remarks I would like to get my terminology straight. I noticed that my critic in particular,  Senator Keeffe,  when speaking of this problem will persist in using terminology which is offensive to me. It may not be offensive to others. He referred to our Australian Aboriginal as 'the black man' - 'the black man this' and 'the black man that'. Years ago my Party, before anybody else thought of doing so in this country, abandoned the concept of a controlled immigration policy being known as a white Australia policy. We expunged such terms from our philosophy. In the last years the Australian Labor Party has seen fit to follow our example but it is 10 to 15 years behind us in that regard. 
I have to admit that I have felt some shame in reading the records of this country at a time of great need and great distress when we appealed to the Americans for help. It was part of a political organisation at that time which, unbeknown to me, told the American people that we required their military assistance but we asked that they send no black soldiers, please. It was the Party to which I belonged at that time, that apparently - unwisely in my view, now that I am aware of it - made that decision. 
That was the Australian Labor Party of which I was then a member. I do not direct this to members of the ALP today. While I was a member of it many of them, even some who sit in this chamber as its representatives, did not have responsibility at that time. Many ALP supporters here were not members of the Party at that time. But I have been ashamed to realise that the Party to which I then belonged- 
That was in the war years, as  Senator Murphy  would be well aware. The Party to which I belonged at that stage held a view about humanity which meant that it separated people into blacks and whites. I do not believe that that term conveys the impression of our people in relation to the Aboriginal community. True it is that their environment has caused our Aborigines to have a skin pigmentation different from that which some may think is desirable. I do not believe that the pigmentation in my skin is quite adequate for the environment in which I live. I spend some of the summer months trying to change it to be more suitable for the climate in which we reside. My Cornish ancestors did not have this in view when they gave me. the heritage I have. Certainly, it is a heritage that, by any means, is not as pure racially as that of the Australian Aborigine. 
Nobody who comes from England - from Cornwall in particular - can boast of purity of racial heritage if one analyses the situation of the British Isles. I speak for no others but we Cornish. Everybody ran over us at various periods of history. Spaniards, Moors and others have made some slight contribution to my own destiny in being in the Senate today. I take cognisance of that when I speak of other people. Amongst our Australian Aboriginal community today, as we refer to it, are many people of much purer racial strain than any of us. But also there are many people today who owe their destiny to an ancestry that is composed of part Australian Aborigine and part European; or part Australian Aborigine and part Chinese; or part Aborigine and part Japanese; or part Aborigine and part Malay. 
Many people have come to the coast of Australia. Indeed, amongst the Australian Aboriginal people there are many who owe a small section of their heritage to those people. Rather than use the terms 'white Australian' or 'black Australian' I much prefer to give the original inhabitants of this country the name by which they are properly recognised here - the Australian Aborigine people. They vary greatly in the pigmentation of their skin as many English people do. There are blue eyes, brown eyes, black heads and red heads. I find it quite offensive to refer to the colour of their skin in describing these people. I do not think that it helps when people want to do something to help in the integration of these people if false barriers start to be erected by using terminology that tends to raise prejudice where otherwise it would not be found. There is a backlash- 
Whatever they are, they managed to survive, to their great credit, in an environment in which I am certain that our own race of people would not have survived. For that reason I believe that they have much from which we can learn. I want to take issue with  Senator Keeffe  because he re-quoted a statement I made that was taken out of the context of what I said to a conference of our Party when we were discussing the difference between assimilation and integration. Attempts were made to saddle us with generalised propaganda statements in regard to land rights without detailed descriptions of what land rights or ownership were involved or anything of that nature. 1 resisted that and I still resist that as a general way of helping the Aborigines because in my view it will not do so. I am entitled to a view just as  Senator Keeffe  is entitled to a view. 1 try to back my views with an understanding of the people and their problems, not only of their own making but also of our making. If we want to help them at all we want to see them enjoy success and receive the approbation and support of the other Australian people who are trying to help them, not see them make failures. 
There should not be an oversimplification of terminology by using propaganda phrases such as 'land rights' and conferring on people  35  square miles of land in a terrain where you would not raise  35  rabbits on the whole  35  square miles. It takes 6,000 square miles of that sort of terrain to have a viable cattle station which is the only prospect that these people would have of making a success of land settlement in that area. With all the ingenuity of the centuries to assist us, it requires 6,000 square miles to enable people who have access to all the skills of the world as well as of our nation to do that. It takes a knowledge of transport, marketing and everything else to bring the products of such isolated areas and present them in saleable condition to a market in order for such a venture to be a success. 
We do not support the generalised idea that some huge success should be expected merely from the granting of land rights, whatever that term may mean. Nobody who has advocated that has yet defined clearly what it means. The Aboriginal people with whom I have sat down and talked, and of whom I have asked the question 'What do you want with land rights?' never have an answer. In my view, they are repeating jargon and a slogan that has been sold to them by other people who are trying to make political capital out of people who have been handicapped for so many years by their environment and who. for the first time in the history of this country, are beginning to receive a semblance of assistance that will be required to enable them to cross the bridges and join us in a greater Australia. I deprecate the fact that people are using them in that way. That is why I interjected when  Senator Keeffe  was speaking and said: Why should we hate and fight one another over this matter?' 
Surely we all sincerely want to help these people. There is plenty of evidence that we are beginning to do so. We are stopping the handouts and the, things that we have been doing in the past. There may have been a justification for them when people knew no better. Perhaps they served a part in the total project. If we had not done that at that time, whatever were the worst consequences of it, the. Aborigines may not have survived to this point of time. Nobody who has fairly considered the history of this country could say that the Australian Aborigines, any more than the animal species of this disappearing continent before the white man came, would have survived through to this generation had it not been for the intervention of the white people, bringing the knowledge and skills of Europe with them which enabled them to tackle the deteriorating environment of this country and make it what it is today. 
It could well be said that in the more lush sections of Australia such as Victoria and Tasmania there would always have been plenty on which the Aborigines could live. But if we examine their history we find that is not so because the recurring drought seasons and other difficulties inevitably brought about a situation in which not only man but also the. animal species that had survived in this country were not materially increasing in numbers. In a natural environment unaltered by the skills of the settlers who had come from Europe, they were to a large extent, over the centuries, deteriorating in numbers. It was the infusion of farming skills that overcame the drought seasons which periodically blasted this country before there was any control of the environment. The droughts were leading to a situation in which this country at some time, or other may have become no more than a desert. That may or may not have been its destiny, lt is as logica] a proposition as any of the other propositions that can be produced and is supported by some of the geological and historical facts about the country to which we belong. 
I believe that we can develop a sense of responsibility in the Aboriginal people by the ownership of land under a system that was brought here by the early settlers of this country. There was no concept of it in this country prior to their arrival. Of course, that concept was that if land was not obtained by Crown grant, it was bought. The suggestion now is that by Crown grant we should give particular land rights to the Aborigines. Those who suggest that this is a logical proposition - 1 feel that in certain circumstances it could become advantageous to these people - at least ought to produce more specific modes in which this can be done to prevent the Aboriginal people, with whatever land rights they are given, going through the processes which we in our civilisation developed since land was first granted by the Crown to feudal lords and everybody else in the community was a peasant. 
I say this: The Aborigine people are just as intelligent as the people of our own race who conceived the principles of land rights and are just as capable of exploiting one another as we are. Opposition senators want to be very sure what they mean when they talk about granting the Gurindjis land rights over a great area of Australia to see who actually has the rights. They have moved an amendment in this form. I believe that they have a viable proposition which we can consider. If they do not believe in it, it is merely a propaganda statement which means nothing but distress, sorrow and destruction for the Gurindjis.  Senator Keeffe  put his finger on that point when he said that they should be given 35 square miles at Wattie Creek. They have been squatting at Wattie Creek for nearly 6 years, since the communist author Frank Hardy went there and first persuaded the Gurindjis to go on strike from the jobs that they had. The jobs were not very good ones. They were shocking jobs. The conditions should have been cleaned up and improved. Nevertheless they were jobs. The Gurindjis have not had any jobs for 6 years. They have been squatting on the land. The 35 square miles will not raise half a dozen rabbits. 
The honourable senator knows it. If he has not been there he should not be talking about it. If the Gurindjis are to be judged by their success or failure at Wattie Creek, the whole of the country will judge them by a failure because the greatest farming geniuses in the world could not make a success of 35 square miles at Wattie Creek. 
I would not attempt to do so. If I want to catch kangaroos, today there are better methods of doing that. If the honourable senator is not aware of them, let us reserve the discussion for an occasion when we are not discussing a serious matter. I believe that if we interest ourselves in this problem and if we find out the facts we will know something about the position and we will be better able to help the people. In this context I made an explanation to a State conference of the Democratic Labor Party. A very small section of my explanation was published out of context, and I am reputed to have said that nothing of the Aboriginal culture but their bark paintings was worth preserving. 
 Senator Cavanagh  listens with half an ear. He thought I said that tonight. I said nothing of the sort. Let me tell him what I did say. Let me appeal to him to listen, and he will understand that the Aborigines are no different from us in their evolution. We went through phases in our history when we had an ancient culture. It came from the Druids in England. We had very happy little habits and beliefs. We decided that many people were suffering from the occult. They were witches. We had to find out whether they were witches. We dumped them in ponds. If they did not drown we burned them. 
 Is that a fact or is it not? Does the honourable senator know the history of his own race? Of course it is a fact, and he knows that it is. If we leave Cornwall and go to Ireland, for his sake, they were a darned sight worse. We had a lot of lovely little things in our culture - the culture of the European people - many of which we have walked away from and left. As we have become what we consider to be civilised, we have left much of the mythology of ancient generations behind. 
I  wish members of the Opposition would stop squealing. Our Aborigines have a great deal of mythology. That served them well in the environment in which they lived. Today, as many of their young people are receiving what is considered to be a reasonable standard of education, they are walking away from many of the old myths and cultures. A lot of the do-gooders, like the hyenas who laugh in this place at times, are saying that all Aboriginal culture is sacred and that we must stick to the lot. The young people do not want to stick to the lot. The young people are walking away from certain things. As they develop into a different type of society in a different type of environment they do not want to bring with them all the old cultures. When one sits talking to the elders of the tribe under the trees, which is where they want to talk, they listen to this catch cry about Aboriginal culture and they say: 'But you lake away our culture'. The question is: 'How do we take away our culture?' The elders say: 'My brother, his wife at school in Darwin, and she will not come back.'  His  brother is 55 or 60 years of age. The Aboriginal culture gives him rights over a 17-year-old girl who is living in a different environment. I take nothing from him. 1 would not be as clean as he is and I would not be living at his standard if I had had to live in his environment all my life. But the girl at the Aboriginal college in Darwin has no desire to go back and be his wife. She wants to leave that part of the culture behind. The elders say that she must come back and that she must have 
Aboriginal culture. I condemn this attitude. I think I am joined by all reasonable senators in condemnation of our forcing them to bring that culture with them. 
There are many things in Aboriginal culture, including their bark painting, their carving, their dancing and many of their tribal rites, which will never die. There are other things in their culture which we, if we look at the history of our race, had in our culture. Boys having to prove themselves before they are men and some of the physical things which girls are forced to go through as part of tribal rites are things which, if we leave the Aborigines alone, they will not try to bring with them across the bridge from the environment which they once knew to the environment in which it is inevitable that they must some day live, unless the fools in the Opposition force them to do it. That is what 1 am against. If that is being against the interests of the Aborigines, 1 fail to see it. 1 believe that that is being interested in the Aborigines and fighting for the things that are good for them - not telling them thai they have to leave anything behind but leaving it to them, as they develop, as they become educated and as they get the advantages of the money that will be provided by this Bill, to decide whether to cross the bridge between the 2 entirely different civilisations. If we leave them alone, they will do the job with our help. We should not force upon them anything of their culture or their mythology or anything else. 1 claim that if we leave them to their natural evolution they will automatically leave behind many of the things which today may be precious to their lives, particularly to the. lives of their elders. They were the sort of things which helped to sustain them in the environment in which they were forced to extract a living - which they did - and which would have caused many other races and many other nationalities to disappear from the face of the earth. 
 Having said that without any assistance from those who are endeavouring, with the puniness of their knowledge of the subject and with their lack of real interest in what is good for the 
Aborigines, I draw attention to the fact that Opposition senators are trying to gain political capital by saying that the 'Government is bad and is racist and that they, who have seen the light of a White Australia policy only a year or two ago, are the purists now. 
 The honourable senator can have a different view from mine. I do not blame him for that. I would not expect he and I to think alike on this subject. He is too busy attacking the Government and saying that its approach has been wrong because in the last 5 years it has not created a miracle to solve a problem that will not be solved within the lifetime of this generation or the one that will follow. It would be a miracle to solve the problem in such a short space of time. 
 Of course Opposition senators can help. If they expect too much they will destroy the Aborigines. If all they can see in it is a political football to kick around they will not make a contribution. I justify that statement by referring to the amendment which the Labor Party has seen fit to move to a Bill which will grant money to the States to meet an immediate and foreseeable need. In making available that money the Government draws attention to the large increases in costs in this area. There have been large increases in costs in all areas. So, comparing figures, this grant is not as large as it looked initially. It may or may not be large enough. From my investigations 1 know that much of the health problem up there is not due so much to a shortage of money to get doctors but to a shortage of doctors who will go there and to a general shortage of doctors in Australia. Supplying more money will not overcome that problem. I make that point to illustrate that the pouring in of money is not the solution to a problem such as this. We need to have a clear idea of what is required before we spend the money. 
I come to the criticism of the Bill contained in the amendment moved by the Opposition. The amendment wants us to condemn the Government because of its failure over a period of more than 5 years to exercise full and direct responsibility in Aboriginal affairs. I do not think the Government has full and direct responsibility. I think it has a great responsibility as it represents the whole of the Australian people, but its responsibility is no greater and no less than the responsibility of the lot of us put together. I believe that what this Government has done is within measurable reach of what any other government would have done at this time, whatever its political complexion. Immediately it had the right and the power, there was no use in rushing out and voting so many millions of dollars. For what purpose would the money be voted? An organisation had to be created. Some foundations had to be put down before we started to build an edifice. These things cannot be done in 5 minutes. 
The amendment moved by the Opposition condemns the Government also for neglecting to consult with the Aboriginal people. In my view, that is completely incorrect. I consult with Aboriginal people wherever I can talk to them. I know that the Government consults with the Aboriginal people. If the Labor Party has any sense, it too consults with Aboriginal people. Because everything that is asked for by the Aboriginal people is not acceded to it does not necessarily prove that there has not been consultation. If there is a change of government in this country, the new government will not give everything to the Aboriginal people that they ask for any more than it will give the pensioners, the trade unionists or anyone else everything that they ask for. The Government is also condemned, according to the Opposition's amendment, for refusing to restore land rights to Aborigines. As I pointed out, there is a case for the ownership of land by Aborigines. We have to assist them by teaching them to aspire to it, to take a part in it and, when they get it, to administer it in a proper manner. There is no case for dishing out land indiscriminately. Nobody ever suggested that 1 should be given a block of land in Cornwall because my ancestors came from that part of the world. Nor has anybody ever suggested that  Senator Poyser,  who is interjecting, has an inalienable right to land here or anywhere else. If to some people land rights conveys the idea that merely because a person is born in a country he is born with the right to soil in that country, it is the first time to my knowledge, on a private and personal basis, that that philosophy has existed. Indeed, is I understand Labor philosophy, it was opposed to the land rights of feudal times. If Labor supporters were not opposed to that they ought to have been, because it was Labor philosophy when I was in the Labor Party. 
The Government is trying to do something in providing housing for Aboriginal families. A great number of social workers are employed helping the Aborigines to understand the difference between living in the environment that they are used to and transferring to a certain type of house. Some of the houses were not very intelligently constructed in the beginning, but we will learn from our mistakes, because mistakes have been made in that regard. Perhaps the houses themselves have not blended sufficiently the environment that the people who are now living in them are used to with the environment to which we hope they will aspire - an environment which is similar to our own. That is no reason to condemn the Government by saying that it has not tried. There is plenty of statistical evidence which can be found in the Estimates which honourable senators have been discussing to show that the Government has tried in the area of housing and is proceeding along those lines. 
The part of the amendment to which I object most of all is that part which charges the Government with indifference to indefensible levels of neo-natal, infant and child mortality, malnutrition and disease. Overwhelming evidence has been collated by the medical staffs that have been provided by the Commonwealth Government that this is occurring. As in all research, in all medical work, we have to establish the problem and the magnitude of it before we can do very much about curing it. Anybody who makes even a cursory examination of the circumstances in which this problem has emerged will find in the process that the greatest responsibility in relation to this aspect of the problem goes back to the environment from which these people come, their habits, the requirements of that environment, and the circumstances in which they had to learn to survive in that environment. Those circumstances, that way of life, can be totally destructive if applied to our type of environment. 
These people are now moving into settled areas rather than roaming as nomads over huge terrain. In that environment the children and the infants were regularly breast fed until they were 4 or 5 years of age. As we can understand now from our knowledge of nutrition, in the new environment the children gradually have been lacking the nourishment that was required to sustain them. Their diet previously was supplemented by gathering grass seeds which they chewed as they roamed over vast areas of terrain. They caught lizards, grubs and moths, all of which the infants and very young children ate as they were caught - raw. They obtained a great deal of nourishment from this sort of diet. There was plenty of protein in it. These people are now living in settlements where they cannot roam and gather grass seeds, moths, grubs and very small game such as lizards. 1 am speaking now of the nutritional problem, particularly in the Northern Territory, and the high infant mortality rate. Now they are in settlements where the mothers have no responsibility in this regard because they too are products of the environment, habits and circumstances forced upon them. If the child does not cry from hunger, they think the child is not hungry. Today instead of getting the type of food it used to get, the child gets a cup full of tea which is half sugar. Of course, that stills the pangs of hunger. The child does not cry, but it is not nourished, lt receives no protein and is suffering badly from malnutrition. Of course, it is easily knocked over by the first germ or wog that comes along. Can we blame the doctors for that? Can we blame the mothers? Can we blame the Government? Can we blame anybody? This is what I meant when I made the comment to  Senator Keeffe  - this business of finding the villain in the piece who is deliberately creating this circumstance is all wrong. While we are busy looking for the villain we are missing the opportunities to help a little in correcting the situation. 
In order to correct it, can we take the child away from the mother? Consider the problems that would develop then, not only physical but also mental. These people love their children as much as any other human race loves its children. Perhaps they love their children more because they live closer to them and they will not be separated from their children, whether we like it or not. With all credit to their high standard of intelligence, they quickly grasp the idea of medical treatment. Much more than many races of people who have been caught in similar types of primitive life, although not to the same extreme degree, they submit to medical attention and care. But it is very difficult in some circumstances to even administer the normal processes of modern health, such as the insertion of needles and so on. Everything is all right if the child recovers from a bacl stomach ailment after it has been injected with something, but if the child dies very often the medical man, because of the mythology of the tribe, can be blamed in some way. We have to get over this sort of prejudice before we can really get down to treating the people. These are all enormous difficulties. The problem that we are discussing now occurs most frequently among the Aboriginal race in the remote parts of Australia. 
The first basic requirement in the solution of this problem was to collate the statistics that have been collated under the direction of this Government by its medical officers in the Department of Health. All credit should be given to the departmental officers, yet they are the first to be condemned because the babies are dying. Probably similar statistics have never been collated before in the history of mankind, namely, statistics relating to people so recently emerged from a primitive environment. Nobody has ever dared to get the. statistics of the infant mortality rate which our people are doing in the Territory. Certainly the magnitude of the figures is alarming and an effort has to be made to reduce them as quickly as possible, remembering at all times that what is entailed here is a vast programme of education which will need the co-operation of all political parties - and no villains, thank you. I do not believe that this Government or whoever sits on the government benches would deliberated try to hold back the progress of these people and their emancipation in their march towards a way of life that we hope some day will be immeasurably better for them. I hope we do in the manner I have suggested, without politically trying to find footballs to kick around to our own advantage, claiming that we would do more than the others would. If we have a sensible suggestion let us put it forward, no matter who may happen to be in authority at that time. Let us feel for these people, let us try to analyse arid to look for what really arc their problems. Even in the educational field, let us not expect too much. I deplore the fact that in presenting this to the people of this country through the Parliament of this nation we hear read long lists of Aborigines who have been charged with this or that petty offence or something else. I can understand an attempt being made to blame the police or other authority for being in some way responsible for the fact that these people were in that position. But do honourable senators not realise that this can badly affect the whole effort which these people are genuinely making and that they too have problems just as we have? 
Only a couple of days ago there was an exhibition by some alleged entertainers who came to this country from the foundation of our own civilisation and who behaved themselves in the main cities in such a way that although they were guests we had to throw them out after they had been here only a little more than 24 hours. Who could imagine any Australian Aborigines behaving in such a manner? Does anyone think he helps the people of England simply by reciting the cases of people of that kind? Certainly there are many Aborigines, as there are others in the Australian community, who for diverse reasons are incarcerated in gaols from one end of Australia to the other for short or long periods of time. It does no good for the cause of emancipation of Aborigines that members of Parliament should say how the gaols are stacked with these people. Those who make such statements simply want to have a snide shot at the authorities. The police have to do a job for the rest of the community and, after all, we are responsible for them because we pay their wages. We would not have a civilisation worth living in if we did not have a supervisory law and order force of police to ensure that the laws of this country, great and small, are observed and that offences against the laws, petty or of great magnitude, are sheeted home to those who commit those offences. 
One of the first steps towards the emancipation of any people caught in the circumstances in which our Aborigines are caught is to know and understand those people. 1 believe that the laws of this nation are reasonably sympathetically administered in these areas. 1 have seen many instances of that even when major crimes have been involved, I deprecate the fact that much of their problem comes from the lack of their capacity to deal with a social evil in our community - alcohol. In the country centres over-indulgence may result in someone spending a night in the cells for being disorderly and causing somebody else inconvenience. But in the case of those other Australians like ourselves who live in big cities it may result in the destruction of innocent lives. Somebody under the influence of alcohol gets behind the wheel of a motor vehicle and uses it almost as a lethal weapon - and in the process kills somebody. I do not think that concentration on the fact that some Aborigines have to spend a night in the cells because they have seen too much of the moonshine in any way helps the cause of Aborigines - even if one gets the personal satisfaction of having a snide shot at members of the police force, who probably would not have wanted to put them in the cells but have an obligation to carry out their duty to the rest of the community. 
I believe that the Bill before the Parliament will enable die Government to grant to the States money which at this time will provide some assistance to the States to deal with their own individual problems on the Aboriginal question. I would hope that as we learn more of the problems we shall never at any future time be held up for want of money when the requirement can be shown that there is a practical possibility of assistance for this problem in any way at all towards its ultimate success and the successful emergence of these people as an integral part of the Australian community. I for one hope that they will bring with them those things in their culture which will benefit mankind as a whole and Australians in particular to a better way of life; and that we shall be sensible enough to let them leave behind those things that will not help them and which will not help us if introduced into our community. 
We have looked at the amendment and at the clause. To some extent they both make provision for an inquiry, although one is far more specific than the other. The clause gives to the new authority the responsibility to inquire into wool marketing methods, .whether alone, or in cooperation with other authorities and organisations. Under those terms the Corporation is not necessarily precluded from inquiring into the formulating of a detailed plan for operation by the Corporation of a scheme to acquire, and market the Australian wool clip, lt could very well do what is suggested in the amendment, under the first lines of paragraph (o) of clause 38 (1.) although not necessarily so, because, the amendment is of much wider ambit. It could investigate whether it would be a good thing to' do this in co-operation with other authorities and organisations. The, Bill makes provision that the Corporation will from time to time report the results of its inquiries to the Minister and to the Australian Wool Industry Conference, to allow the industry to know what the inquiries have discovered and to absorb the information and make its own decision as to whether the information available as a result of the inquiries is likely to be helpful. Then it makes its suggestions to the industry. It is suggested by  Senator Milliner  that all these clauses contain no provision that decisions have to come back to Parliament for ratification. I suggest to him that if the Australian Wool Commission had to rush back to the Parliament every time the price went up or down and obtain the approval of Parliament to fix a reserve price on the basis of the auction prices that were offering, before it could purchase or buy or do anything else, there would be chaos in the industry and it would never get out of the Slough of Despond. There is nothing in this clause or in the amendment that suggests that if the authority is left as it is the Corporation can act on the result of this inquiry without any parliamentary approval. There, is no suggestion that the Corporation will be implementing, without the approval of Parliament, entirely new schemes other than the scheme that is clearly outlined in this Bill. What is in the Bill is before the Parliament at the moment. It has not yet received its full approval but seems to be well on the way. I do not think that we should complain about that. As I understand the amendment, it would not limit the inquiry. If it were carried it would be added to the clause and the Corporation could conduct the inquiry provided for here. But it would give the Corporation an obligation to formulate a detailed plan for operation by it in that it sets out that the plan must be, operated only by the Corporation, and includes nobody else. We are asking it to do a specific job and we exclude everybody but the Corporation. The amendment sets out that there would be an approved marketing scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip. If the Corporation acquires it, ultimately it will have, to market it. It is feasible that it would market the clip without acquiring it. It could market it on behalf of others, but it would seem to me to be rather difficult for it not to market it once it had. acquired it because the Corporation would own it and would be the sole owner of the Australian wool clip and would have to market it. It has to report this plan to Parliament within 6 months of the commencement of this Act. I think this Corporation will have a lot to do. I would not know what expertise it would be able to engage to formulate this detailed plan within a period of 6 months and report back to the Parliament and still carry out all its other duties. I am certain that this must take priority over the clause. It would necessarily preclude the Corporation doing very much with other bodies or reporting to the. Australian Wool Industry Conference. It has to present the report to Parliament within 6 months. There is a provision in the Bill that the Corporation could use its skill to inquire into and make known to the industry the result of its inquiry and also make it known to the Minister. Before any action can be taken on the report, even if the Minister does not see fit to give the Parliament the report, it would have to come back to this Parliament unless it was within the ambit of the authority given by the Bill. I do not see that Parliament is being circumvented in any way by the proposition in the Bill. I think there is a reasonable formula there for even the proposition contained in the amendment to be considered by the Corporation. But there is also a formula that goes much wider. We would prefer to leave the Bill as it is, as it covers what is suggested in the amendment but is not so specific, nor does it carry with it the connotation that it is necessarily only the proposition of a complete acquisition by the Corporation that is under consideration. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party indicates that it will support the second reading of both the Wool Industry Bill and the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. I congratulate the Government on keeping its cool. I think it is quite obvious to anybody who has followed the hazards of this industry that when the Australian Wool Commission was first formulated there were grave doubts in many people's minds as to whether it would work out as a saviour of the. industry. Rather it was looked upon as something which might postpone the evil day which could be expected. There were all sorts of plans and ideas. It was suggested that perhaps the price, being offered was not enough and that it should be higher. In some cases it was said that the price would go a lot lower. Unquestionably it would have had it not been for the activities of the Australian Wool Commission. I know that I expressed doubts as time seemed to pass by and stocks seemed to grow. Many people in the industry were expressing doubts to me as they saw an avalanche °f supply building up in the hands of the Commission. They wondered whether this would not prove to be a further hazard because of the new clips which were to follow. Now all those problems have been resolved. I think it behoves everybody to congratulate the Government upon its coolness and for its tenacity in hanging on when it seemed, temporarily at least, that it might not succeed. But it has succeeded. The. industry has pulled through to far better days. 
One wonders whether the attack on the price of wool in this country was completely natural or whether there was some organisational basis behind it. There must have been some people in the industry who required at least some stocks of wool and who ran their stocks inordinately low when wool was cheap. Now they have been forced to buy on a higher market to reestablish stocks. That may or may not be the position; I do not have sufficient experience in the industry to know. It appears that there were at least some attempts on world markets to try to manipulate the market in the interests of people who had some association with it. I believe that the strong attitude of the Commission and the very intelligent manner in which it operated has offset anything of that character. 
We have pulled through to a time when the industry is certainly facing the future much more optimistically than it was 12 months ago. In itself that could have been a danger and it could have caused the Government to step aside in the belief that the crisis had been mct and conquered and that there was no need to incorporate as a permanent feature of the marketing of wool some of the ideas which came from the Commission. In these Bills we. see that a degree of permanency is to be established. If some of the fluctuations in the price of the product were brought about by deliberate manipulation then this legislation announces to everybody who may be encouraged to try again that they will be up against the same solid front with all the Australian people supporting this industry as they did before. This may divert any attempts which may be. made to manipulate the price in the industry in the future. 
I congratulate the Government upon bringing down the Bills. It is difficult in this industry, as in many other primary industries, to assess at times precisely what the industry requires. It seems to be a characteristic of our primary industries - perhaps not an unhealthy one - that one receives representations from people with many different points of vie;w. At times even the various associations have great difficulty in reaching unanimity in relation to the things which they desire the Parliament to do in the interests of the industry which in turn contributes so much to the economy of Australia. When one hears these ideas expressed it is easy for one who is not associated with the industry to become a little confused as to precisely what the industry thinks is best for its future. 
From the representations made to us we feel that, however much we may welcome both these Bills and in particular the Wool Industry Bill, there are some aspects with which sections of the industry are not completely satisfied. I believe that those aspects of these Bills can be discussed during the Committee stage when we are considering the amendments which have already been moved. We are proposing to wait until the Committee stage of the Bill, when we deal with those particular amendments, and then to express our point of view. In view of the time that the Senate has to deal with the legislation that is before it- 
I appreciate that. The amendments will be moved in the Committee stage. I am saying that the Democratic Labor Party will give consideration at that time to the arguments placed before it and that at this second reading stage, while we are supporting the Bill, we too have many reservations about particular areas which seem to be covered by the proposed amendments. We will look at the amendments during the Committee stage of the Bill. Because of the time that the Senate has available to it it would be repetitive to talk further of the excellence of the legislation and the spirit behind it. The DLP is prepared at this stage to indicate that it is prepared to support the second reading of both Bills. 
In an endeavour to clarify the situation or at least to put a point of view on the matter, I ask a question of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman).  Clause 23 states:  (1.) The Corporation may appoint such officers and engage such employees as it thinks necessary for the purposes of this Act. (2.) The terms and conditions of employment of persons so appointed or engaged are such as are determined by the Corporation. 
Will the Minister give an indication whether the Australian Wool Corporation intends to break the law in relation to award wages set down for specified operations, or is this clause inserted merely to give the Corporation some flexibility in the appointment of officers such as purchasing officers who may have to purchase wool at auction and whose wage or commission would obviously be a matter of negotiation between the Corporation and the person so employed? I do not think that the Corporation or any other employer would be able to employ somebody on an award defined job and get away with paying less than the award wage. 
The members of my Party, the Australian Democratic Labor Party, have some perplexity about this clause. Prima facie we are inclined to agree with the amendment although there is the thought in our minds that the specific word 'auction' may have been used for a specific purpose. We can understand that in trying to support a reserve price, scheme it would be almost impossible to have a price that is obtainable at auction, perhaps for limited quantities, and that somebody trying to dispose of his clip would be prepared to take a lower price than that available at auction, even by a matter of some cents per pound, and then expect the Corporation to make up the difference. Obviously, the sustaining of the price must be done on the basis of what is obtainable at auction to give a standard of values to which the market adjusts itself at a particular time. It is a price that is arrived at by a competitiveness in the industry by buyers seeking the commodity. If there are not sufficient buyers one expects the price to fall at auction. We could not have perhaps private buyers competing for sales at a price lower than the price that was obtainable at auction. That is one point of view. 
The other point of view is that put by  Senator Wilkinson,  with which we have a great deal of sympathy. It is that the auction business, because of this factor that I have just outlined, should not be taken as the beginning and the end and the only way in which people will be permitted to sell. Provided that the price which is obtained in the circumstances or otherwise is that which in the market at the particular point of time is the price that is generally obtainable at auction, we see no reason why the words should not be inserted. We would listen with interest to what the Minister may have to say to clarify our points of view on this question. 
We are discussing paragraph (a) of clause 38  (1).  It virtually stands alone and the position is confused by turning to speeches made at the second reading stage of the debate and to the other clauses. I think  Senator Cavanagh  was getting very close to the point. The clause provides:  38(1.)- The functions of the Corporation include the following functions: 
to operate a flexible reserve price scheme . . . 
Let us stop there. Why is it to be flexible? It is to be flexible because the price fluctuates from day to day as buyers make offers. Why is it a reserve price scheme? Because that is the whole objective of the measure. There must be a reserve price of a fixed amount. 1 believe the clause does introduce aspects that are misleading because it goes straight on to refer to the wool offered for sale at auction. It gives the impression that everything in the clause relates to wool offered for sale at auction when actually the clause is only establishing a flexible reserve price scheme. 
No. The words 'shall be established" refer only to the flexible reserve price scheme. The clause provides that a flexible reserve price scheme shall be established in respect of wool offered for sale at auction. A scheme would be established on that basis and then everything else would have to be incorporated. How in the world could a price that is arrived at by private treaty and negotiation adjust a reserve price which is to be flexible on the market day by day? It would take a month to run around andfind all the wool growers who had sold by private treaty, what they were paid and the average price and say that it has to be taken into consideration with the prices at auction. Clause 38 (1.) (a) is worded the way it is to establish a firm auction price that will set the basis of the flexible reserve price scheme. The scheme operates on the whole of the industry, the whole of the sales. The price alone is arrived at and I do not believe that clause 38 (1.) is worded as plainly as it could be. 
 I tried to do that when I first spoke on the question. I asked the Minister whether the provision was limited to the establishment of the price. If it is, there is a very good reason why 'or otherwise' should not be included. If that is the purpose of clause 38 (1), I believe the clause is acceptable. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise aware of newspaper reports that a decision is expected within the next few days regarding applications to his Department for concessions of duty on the supply of steel pipe by a Japanese consortium of companies to the Australian Gas light Co? As this contract has been referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Industry and Trade, can the Minister assure the Senate that it will be fully informed before the implementation of any such decision? 
What machinery, if any, exists, for Parliament to disallow any decision with which it disagrees? 
The members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have looked at the amendment which it is suggested be made to clause 40. We cannot seem to place it in its proper context in this category because this clause deals with the powers of the Corporation, lt seems to us that it is more intended - this is particularly so from what  Senator Wilkinson  said - to be a matter of inquiry rather than of actual operation. He has suggested that nothing would or could be done. As 1 see it, we have already dealt with what are the functions of the Corporation. Amonst those functions is outlined quite clearly in subclause (o) that the Corporation will:   . . inquire into (whether alone or in cooperation with other authorities and organisations), . . . 
That is the subclause with which we have just dealt, lt is suggested now that we place amongst the Corporation's powers an added power that does not appear in  thi  Bill at the moment to make arrangements for the operation of an approved marketing scheme to acquire and/or market the Australian wool clip. If the Corporation were to make arrangements for the formation of an approved plan, that may be something and would carry with it a connotation that it would inquire and set out the general information as to what was available. But this clause is in regard to the operation of the scheme. It means in actual, practical effect that the Corporation is given the power to start the scheme going, and put it into actual operation. The amendment states that it is to be an approved marketing scheme. It does not define by whom it is to be approved. 
I noticed that  Senator Milliner's  hackles rose immediately when he read the amendment because he is already frightened that some of these things will not be referred back to the Parliament. I do not see anything in the amendment to suggest whether this has to he approved by Parliament, the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council or any other body before the Corporation starts to make arrangements for the operation of whatever is to be approved. Because of this confusion alone, we do not see that the amendment adds any specific possibilities to the Bill. We feel that the power that the Corporation has as one of its functions under the clause that has been carried already - to inquire and to report back - gives it sufficient power at the moment to do the job of devising a logical, practical and acceptable scheme for the wool growers and for the States that must formulate a co-operative action towards any movement of this character. But to give the Corporation tha power to make arrangements for tha operation of an approved scheme without stating even by whom it would be approved is to us rather to confuse than to clarify the provisions of the Bill. 
We think that the powers that the Corporation is granted in clause 40 of this proposed Act of Parliament are very wide powers to do almost anything in the interests of the objectives that have already been granted to it. They include the power to buy wool, to sell wool, to lease or purchase the property, to employ labour, to demolish or remove buildings and many other powers. All that is practical and logical. But to add a subclause such as that contained in the amendment at the end of the clause does not seem to us to be very practical. We wish to indicate that we could not support the amendment. 
The alleged purpose of this Bill is to alleviate the adverse circumstances in which growers in the apple, pear and peach industries of Australia find themselves at the moment. I use the word 'alleged' because I see nothing in the Bill which will contribute to the alleviation of their circumstances. We of the Democratic Labor Party appreciate that the Bill is the result of agreement between the States and the Commonwealth and that any deviation from it would probably lead to a renegotiation with the States before anything could be done. There seems little possibility that this Bill in itself will offer any relief to anybody. It represents probably the greatest deception that the people in the industry have ever had practised against them. The Government gave them some hope when hope had practically gone; but in fact the hopes built up as a result of promises outlined in this legislation have been taken away because of the way in which the terms of the Bill are to be applied. 
We would have no hesitation in throwing this Bill out if we thought that by doing so we could achieve anything. However there could be the accidental possibility that it could benefit one person. Wo recognise that nobody is forced to place himself in the position in which he will be placed if this Bill becomes the law of the Commonwealth. Those who would be injured by being involved in the scheme can avoid it by not making application. For that reason alone we adopt the attitude that we will not oppose the second reading of the Bill but that, like the Australian Labor Party, we will move some amendments expressing in no uncertain terms the shortcomings of the Bill and the points in it which we believe should be renegotiated with the States to achieve the stated objective, set out by the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in his second reading speech, of the people concerned in this industry being re-employed so that they can use their resources. 
Paragraph 2.2 of Part ll of the Schedule, headed 'Assistance', provides: 
The maximum rate of assistance will be S500 per acre for canning peaches and canning pears and $350 per acre for fresh apples and fresh pears. 
That is completely misleading. Nobody in the industry would be likely to make an application for such sums under the terms of the Bill. If they had sufficient equipment to make their orchard a viable prospect they would reduce immediately the amount of compensation that would be payable to them under the terms of this Bill to far less than the figures stated therein. The figures are purely illusory ones that mean nothing at all other than a false hope. This has caused many producers not to spray their orchards, to prune their orchards or to fertilise their orchards because they dream that the circumstances outlined in that clause of the Bill may be circumstances which would be applicable to them. Upon application, producers in the State which I represent - the State of Victoria - are receiving replies from the Rural Finance Settlement Commission that show quite clearly that those figures are completely misleading and that practically nobody will be eligible to benefit to the extent provided for in the Bill. 
The general situation seems to be that instead of the growers receiving $500 an acre for the destruction of trees - in many instances they have taken 10 years to reach potential commercial production and it will be 6 years before they again produce anything - they will receive on average $100 per acre, and not $500 an acre at all. I wish to quote from the reply received by one person who did not understand the provisions of this Bill and who made an application under the proposed scheme. 1 quote in part the correspondence that he received: 
The Commission now offers you as compensation an amount of S3, 390 for the removal of 33.3 acres of peaches. 
One does not need to be a mathematical genius to work out that that payment in respect of his trees represents $100 an acre and not $500 an acre. That letter continues: 
The Compensation in your case has been determined having regard to the overall value of your assets and the requirement of the proposed legisla tion that the Commission apply a means test before determining the final amount that can be offered. 
I interpolate that the payment of $3,390 is subject to a further condition. The letter states: 
This figure of $3,390 will be conditional upon you surrendering your 30 shares in Kyabram, 63 shares in Ardmona and 89 shares in Iiic Shepparton  Preservng  Companies to the Commission. 
For the information of honourable senators, those shares are valued at the moment for the purpose of probate at $3 each. There is nothing in the Bill to suggest that conditions of that sort will be applied. 
The grower in question does not need to surrender those shares to the Commission. If he wishes, he can keep them or sell them to somebody else. In that event, the compensation of $3,390 will be reduced because the Commission wilt maintain that his assets are greater than they appeared to be or greater than the valuation on which the assessment has been made for compensation purposes. I would have thought that if these conditions were to apply at least some inkling would have drifted through to the industry itself to indicate that the assistance which was to be offered and which was so widely publicised would be along those lines and not along the lines which deceived some growers into not preparing their orchards at all for production this year. 
Those growers who relied heavily upon the scheme because their situations were the most desperate are the ones who will be most harshly hit by this legislation. It is not surprising that an angry gathering of growers engaged in the industry was held in Shepparton yesterday at which further information was sought because the full impact of the application of this scheme still has not yet reached the majority of growers. I suggest to the Government that if it was not aware of how State authorities would interpret the terms of the Bill and the agreement, the Commonwealth as the authority to administer the legislation should put into operation the provisions which I have read to the Senate. 
The person to whom the correspondence that 1 have just quoted was sent is in no position to accept what he has been offered. His property is heavily in debt. 
Many of the properties in the areas involved were financed through the war service land settlement scheme. In many circumstances, the property owners owe more than has been offered to them to pull out their trees. Virtually, they would be required to abandon their properties and be left with nothing at all. The object of the scheme is to reduce productivity and over-production in order to reduce the production to a level to meet the needs of the available markets that exist at this time. 
Another provision - I believe it is a wrong provision - in this Bill is that in order to obtain any incentive to pull his trees an orchardist must be engaged full time in the industry, and have no interests in other industries. In this field there are many people who are mainly sustained by other rural activities, for example dairying, and have a small proportion of their land allotted to the growing of these fruits, more or less as a sideline or as a profitable hobby, if we may describe it as that. Those growers are offered nothing at all to pull their trees. They are not eligible to enter into the scheme in any way whatsoever and they must remain as producers in the industry. 
The whole objective of the Bill itself is to devise a scheme that will reduce the productivity in the area involved and make the industry a viable proposition for those who are interested in it. Yet there is no attempt to offer some compensation to those who are not dependent on the orchards for their total sustenance. No provision is made for growers to leave the industry with some reasonable compensation for what they have invested in it. The part-time growers who are not dependent upon their orchards at all can aggravate the circumstances of the industry, including over-production, whereas thi; man who is totally dependent upon fruit is offered payment that will in no way compensate him for moving out to leave those who remain in a viable position. Taking an extreme example, one could almost see all of the part-timers remaining, all of the orchardists gone and there existing an inefficient and incompetent industry unable even to meet the demands from abroad, if the scheme in itself were successful. 
Even if the rates which are being offered under this scheme by agreement with the States to get people to pull their trees had been acceptable, the scheme is based on a wrong principle. The principle should have been initially to get rid of those who were engaged in the industry on a part-time basis and who already had expertise in some other type of production such as dairying. Instead of that, we have a scheme under which the expert orchardist will be required to learn completely all facets of another type of industry if he is to expect even reasonable compensation for the pulling of his trees and abandonment of the industry to those who remain in it. 
As I have said, reluctantly we will not oppose the second reading of this Bill because maybe somebody who has not approached us will benefit from its provisions. Everybody who has approached us certainly is on the receiving end of the worst provisions of this scheme. There are newspaper reports today of one person who has actually accepted the offers that have been made by the Government. Whether he has been driven to such a state of desperation that he intends to abandon everything and get out of the industry anyway I am not in a position to say. Our amendment reads: 
At end of motion add: ', but the Senate is of the opinion that 
consideration should be given by the Government to extending eligibility, for compensation to rural producers who are merely supplementing other inadequate rural income by apple and pear production but whose production is helping to create or aggravate the current overproduction of apples and pears; 
(a) that the test ot eligibility should be "financial hardship" not . financial difficulties" as recited in 1.3 (a) of the Schedule, (b) that there should be a specification of the term "adequate resources" in monetary terms that should not be excessively low; and 
that the Commonwealth approach the States with a view to a renegotiation of the Agreement to embody the principles sci out herein.' 
We accept and support the amendment that has been moved by the Opposition, as it implies a valid criticism of the Bill and would provide an amelioration of its provisions as to time. We agree wholeheartedly with the Opposition that the dates set out in the Schedule are far too restrictive. The 
Opposition, in its amendment, is conscious of the need only to express opinions on the matter. The legislation is the result of a Commonwealth-State agreement, and any successful attempt to alter it without consultation with the States must mean the end of the legislation. 
I believe that the whole matter has been bungled by the governments concerned, particularly the Commonwealth Government. I agree with the sentiments expressed by  Senator O'Byrne  when he drew attention to the fact that today the world lacks food for its inhabitants. Australia has been through a phase in which it has limited wheat production and has discouraged - and is still discouraging - maximum production of dairy products. Yet today throughout the world there is a market for dairy products in excess of what the dairy industry is producing. At the appropriate time I will have plenty to say about the restrictions that have been forced upon the Victorian dairy industry, allegedly in the interests of marketing, when every day the industry is knocking back overseas customers who wish to buy Australian dairy products, particularly Victorian dairy products, that are not now being produced because of government enactment. The philosophy that Australia, because of a set of circumstances in an industry such as this and because of changed circumstances in its traditional markets - the markets of Great Britain and Europe in particular, due to the circumstances associated with Britain's entry into the European Common Market - should abandon all hope and think merely in terms of destroying its present industries is entirely wrong. 
Vast new markets are opening up to this country. We may have to be more adaptable. I Have spoken on this matter previously. I think that what we need at a governmental and departmental level is perhaps a little imagination as well as practical common sense. Throughout Asia, due to our assistance and the assistance of other countries, the economies of many of the so-called emerging nations are changing just as rapidly as our trading circumstances in Europe are changing because of Britain's entry into the Common Market. Those nations can afford to trade more internationally and they are developing huge export complexes which are run under most efficient circumstances and which we cannot expect to match at this point of time because they are starting off with a clean sheet in the building of entirely new industries. It is a challenge to our footwear industry and many other industries. We are not getting the reciprocal trade in primary industries that we could very well expect. There are very cogent reasons for this. I do not believe that a pear grower at Shepparton can hie off to Asia and find out precisely what he needs to do to meet the challenge of the new markets that are ready and waiting for the taking, but I believe that the Commonwealth Government has the responsibility to do so. Through its trade commissioners, it is trying to discharge its responsibility, to some extent. 
Although the legislation has the purpose of destroying our capacity to produce the traditional fruits that were popular in the very worthwhile European markets which we have established in the century or so of our history and development, there is no attempt by the Commonwealth to have a team of experts offer, as well as compensation for pulling out some trees which would seem to be redundant because we cannot sell the product, money to enable growers to plant other trees which will produce fruit that will be popular in the Asian markets. Because of pressure of circumstances at the moment, no fruit grower from Shepparton could go to Asia and study the Asian markets. As a politician who has been sent on various missions to Asian countries, I have purchased fruits in the local markets in places such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Bangkok. There is an enormous demand for litchis and longarms. The only time we come in contact with those fruits in this country is when we see cans of them or when we see them in Chinese restaurants. In terms of our currency, they sell at prices in excess of the prices at which we are selling our pears, peaches and apples. Asian people not only want to buy them but have the money to buy them. They are frustrated in the off seasons because those fruits are not available to them fresh. Yet our seasons are the opposite. If we developed the industries here, when the local fruits were not fresh on the markets in Asia, Australian orchards could supply the fresh fruits to the Asian markets. Can we expect the Shepparton pear grower suddenly to know what is involved? I do not know what is involved. I have bought litchis in the market places in Asia. But I do not know how long the trees take to bear profitably; nor do I know the climatic circumstances required, although 1 am assured by Asians that the trees will flourish and will produce excellently in this country. I understand that we do produce a few Iitchis, but not in commercial quantities and certainly not for export. 
The Democratic Labor Party offers to the Government these ideas: Would it not be logical for the Commonwealth Government, if it is prepared to foot the bill of some millions of dollars to help the fruit growers - it is not the §60m that the Commonwealth puts aside in respect of wheat or wool or anything like that, and that is a very contentious matter with the fruit growers - to provide a sum of money to enable them to get the necessary information and advice as to whether and, if so, where and how there are possibilities for the growing of even the limited range of fruits which I, as an ordinary individual, can walk around the market places of Asia and observe the people buying and enjoying and which I know are the most popular fruits? The people there do not buy our pears. We may think that because we have developed a palate for pears we have only to sell them the idea of liking pears and they will buy pears. But we cannot sell people a new habit. These are the fruits that the people there like. I admit that I like them, too. I do not see any reason why there could not be a big home market for them. If we study the background of our country we find that very little or nothing at all was here when the white settlers came, lt was only natural that, when they developed orchards and when they grew the new grasses that were necessary as pastures for cattle and other stock, they should use ideas from their homelands and trade on and cater for those markets. 
But now we are faced with the challenge of an entirely different set of circumstances. But there are insufficient people in Australia and its immediate vicinity who have a liking for those items for which the demand is dwindling. Therefore, we will  have  to develop new ideas and concepts. 
Before the Government even entertained the idea of pulling out trees it should have set in motion machinery which would offer to those people who are being told to seek an alternative a reasonable alternative to which they could aspire with some hope for the future. It may well be that some of the larger orchardists can afford to get rid of a percentage of their fruit trees and even carry them for 5 or 10 years in the hope of the development of a new market, but the smaller ones could not. It should not be left to individuals, as it is at present, to find alternative markets. I believe that one individual in Australia is at present exporting to Asia a type of pear which is becoming popular in Asia but which was not previously known of there. The leaving of it to an individual to do so will not be enough to cope with the emergency facing this country. 
At the moment we are going through a very dangerous period of laissez-faire. We negotiated with the United Kingdom a postponement of some of the worst things that could happen to us as a result of her entering into the European Economic Community and just sat back in the traces. We have obtained precious years of breathing space. We should be utilising them to the fullest extent. What are we doing instead? We are introducing legislation which has as its sole purpose and objective the buying out of people engaged in fruit production. In doing so we are not offering reasonable compensation. 
No consideration has been given to the prospect of the production of an alternative crop. There are alternative crops for which there is a demand. Inside 10 years, if we are successful in helping to assist the emerging nations, the demand for these alternative crops will grow enormously It could well be that in 20 years time, if a little imagination and vision is shown, Australia may be exporting, in terms of tons, three or four times more in litchis than we are hopeful of exporting in apples and pears. But one has to start somewhere and it cannot be left to an individual to do the starting because too much expertise is required. Only the Commonwealth Government would be in a position to provide that expertise. Perhaps what I am saying is only a wild dream. Perhaps it may not be possible to do so. But there seems to be a prima facie case for saying that this is worthy of consideration. 
So many things have been said to me about this legislation by the fruit growers in the area to which I have referred. They are now finding out that the provisions of the Schedule to the Bill are almost nonsensical. Their complaints have been mainly about the provisions referred to in the amendment that has been circulated in my name. Part 1.1 (a) of the Schedule refers to the grower who is predominantly a hor.ticulturalist who is in severe financial difficulties and intends to clear-fell his orchard. What are 'severe financial difficulties'? I understand 'financial difficulties' to be the stage one gets to when one is doubtful about whether one can pay not one's overdraft but the interest on it. I understand 'severe financial difficulties' to be when one has no hope at all. Do growers have to be in that position before they can be helped to reconstruct their industry? If they are in that position what is the good of helping them as they are done - they are finished. 1 believe that the word severe' must have been inadvertently included. it will be the State authorities who will be interpreting these provisions. 1 quoted a letter from the Rural Finance Corporation of Victoria to a hardy grower who had the temerity to apply for assistance. He thought so much of the reply he received that he immediately despatched it to me. He did not want it any more. He has no intention whatsoever of availing himself of what has been offered. The Schedule goes on to refer to a grower who does not have adequate resources to withstand the short term effects on his economic viability of removing the trees without assistance. I have suggested in the amendment I have circulated that there should be a specification of the term 'adequate resources' in monetary terms. I have done so because the authorities in the various States can place a different interpretation upon the legislation. By 'authority' 1 mean that body in a State which has responsibility for the administration of these things. I have already seen 2 letters on this aspect. One said: 'If you have property to the value of 810,000 you are out' and the other referred to a figure of Si 5,000. Both letters happened to come from the one State. 
Apparently one fellow inadvertently included his tractor as a part of his assets. That may have made the difference in the evaluation. 
The Democratic Labor Party has never been so disappointed with a piece of legislation as it has been with this Bill, ft has never seen a piece of legislation that it has felt would be so ineffective in achieving the objective it set out to achieve - that is, of getting rid of some trees of a particular character in areas of over production - than this Bill. The only other matter I want to mention is about the fact that if applications made in accordance with the Bill as it now stands are rejected by a State authority the people whose applications are rejected have recourse to appeal to the same State authority as the one which rejected their applications. That is wrong. In principle there should be the right of appeal to an independent tribunal which has not already considered such an application. If a person whose application has been rejected wants to appeal against the rejection there should be some provision whereby he can appeal to a body other than which rejected his application. That is especially so in the case of a person who seeks to get what he thinks is a reasonable amount to compensate him for having to sacrifice the way of life which has been his way of life for many years. 1 do not believe that it is necessary for me to say any more in support &gt;f the amendment I have circulated. I have had no thoughts at all as to whether my amendment should be tacked on to the amendment moved by the official Opposition or whether it should be given precedence over it. 1 do not think it matters very much. Paragraphs (2) and (3) of my proposed amendment deal with similar matters to those contained in the amendment of the Opposition. It would probably be better if we were to agree among ourselves as to what practice should be adopted. 1 would need some guidance as to how to achieve my aim. Perhaps paragraph (1) of my proposed amendment should be the first part of an amendment combining the terms of the Opposition's amendment and the terms of my proposed amendment. The second part of my proposed amendment and the whole of the Opposition's amendment deal with provisions which are already contained in the present Bill, whereas the first part of my proposed amendment deals with something which has been completely overlooked by the Government but which is in accordance with the principles it has laid down about people who are engaged in the part time production of apples and pears and who have other means of income.  1  have no doubt that it will be possible to organise an amendment on acceptable lines before it is necessary to take a vote on this legislation. On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  1  move the amendment which has been circulated in my name. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - You may not move an amendment at this stage,  Senator Little,  but you may foreshadow an amendment. 
 1  foreshadow the amendment which has been circulated in my name. 
asked the Attorney- 
General, upon notice: 
Has the Attorney-General's Department any evidence to indicate whether there is any substance in an allegation made by the Minister for Primary Industry that the Australian League of Rights and the Australian Nazi Party are closely linked. 

 Senator GREENWOOD- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as  follows: 
I assume that the question refers to a speech given by the Minister for Primary Industry in 
Melbourne on 20th August 1972. It is clear from the context in which the Minister made this statement to which the question relates that he was talking about the policies and philosophies of the 2 groups. He was obviously not referring to organisational links between them. I have no evidence that there are any such links. 
 I have listened closely to this debate but I am somewhat puzzled because I have heard allegations concerning membership of the Democratic Labor Party of people who, as far as I am aware, are not members. From inquiries I have made in respect of one pf the applicants.it seems that he is not a member. I have never before heard so much nonsense spoken as was spoken by  Senator Cavanagh.  I did not know that anyone was privy to. the records concerning the qualifications of applicants except those officers who make decisions and recommendations to the Minister as to the most suitable applicants for the positions, but  Senator Cavanagh,  seems to know all about the private lives, qualifications and the many and varied experiences of the applicants. He says . that he will make his judgments. Of course, if applicants happen to belong to. his political party, I suppose their qualifications will be regarded as of the highest order. I am a member of 2 properly qualified unions which pay their dues to the Victorian trade union movement. These unions do not belong to that , section which gets support from members of the Labor Party in this chamber - a section comprising unions which are virtually scabs in the Victorian trade union movement because they are unfinancial and have been for more than 5 years. 
I am grateful that this conservative Government has seen fit to appoint members of the trade union movement to these high positions, just as previous appointees have come from the trade union movement. In the early days of the divisions in the Labor Party, to which  Senator Murphy  referred, the late John Horan suffered the same fate as I suffered. He stood up for his views and was expelled from the Labor Party at that time. Whether he was actively associated with the DLP after his expulsion is beside the point because shortly after the disintegration of the Labor Party at that time he was appointed as a conciliation commissioner. He was a great trade unionist and a great conciliation commissioner. He passed on last week. He served with honour and distinction. But he has not been the only appointment from the trade union movement. 
 Senator Murphy  has made his speech. He cannot speak for the senators sitting close to me. He has expressed a point of view because he is aware of the political damage his colleagues' predictions might cause. It is no use  Senator Murphy  frowning and trying  to  shut me up because he has no jurisdiction or control over me. Of course the lid has been lifted and the people of Australia are aware of the stinking mess that will result from public appointments if the Labor Party should accidentally become the government. I can understand  Senator Murphy's  embarrassment and why he should try to square off. I do not want to be diverted. The Democratic Labor Party is proud of the role it has played in supplying successful applicants for these positions. Those appointed have served this country well. I refer to a personal friend of mine. Bob Saker, who was secretary of the Clerks Union, one of the great trade unions in Victoria. Today he is  Chairman of  the Victorian Government's Wages Board Section. He has held that position for over 10 years. He is a past President  of  the Democratic Labor Party. Like any appointee to a position of that character, he has not been associated with any political party since his appointment. There was no secret about his political beliefs: he was not one to make a secret of them. He has been one of the most successful Chairmen  of  the Wages Board that Victoria has known. 

 Mr Saker was appointed by a Liberal Government as a representative of the trade union movement. It is the Liberal Government which has had reason to complain about his decisions, not the trade union movement. The trade union movement is proud, as the Democratic Labor Party is proud, of having supplied to the Wages Board a very distinguished Aus tralian. He served well the political part)' to which he belonged originally, the Australian Labor Party. He served the Federated Clerks Union well. When he was faced with a decision of conscience and decided that the Democratic Labor Party was right, he stood 4-square with the Democratic Labor Party. He had a right to make that decision. He was State  President  of the Party. 

 - Senator McAuliffe is trying to interject. I do not know whether he is trying to say that there was something wrong with the appointment, that the Democratic Labor Party appointed  Mr Saker  or something like that. I believe that  Mr Saker  was appointed wholly and solely on his very excellent record in the trade union movement and because at that time not only the Liberal State Government but also people in the working class movement had confidence in his ability to carry out the duties of that position in the manner in which he has carried them out for more than 10 years. He has carried out his duties in the best traditions of the trade union and labour movements of this country.  His  politics had nothing to do with his appointment. They have not trammelled him in any way. I deprecate that paltry minded members of this Parliament grizzle about men being elevated from the trade union movement to some of the highest positions in the land. 

 - Senator Mulvihill Ls privy to the private medical records of candidates! I always thought the honourable senator was reasonably fair in his points of view. How does he know that a person is a physical derelict? I have no doubt that that description could be applied to many people. It could be applied to many honourable senators. People could say that some senators were mental derelicts. I might hold that opinion. I think that some senators who sit on my left at times show indications of that. 
On my left, and there are a few on my right as well. These people may be mentally deficient - I sometimes think they must be in respect of political questions. As a democrat I concede to them the right - if 1 did not concede it to them they would take the advantage of saying it anyhow - to say what they wish. We in the Democratic Labor Party have always been prepared to dish it out, but we take it and we take it without squealing. The Government has appointed to the arbitration tribunals men from the trade union movement. It ill behoves anybody in the trade union movement to deprecate such appointments. The Government made the appointments. It need not have appointed anybody who had an active role in the labour movement in this country. I compliment the Government on the broadness of its point of view. I compliment it on the appointments it has made. I trust that in the interests of labour relations in this country the appointees will carry out their duties as well as members of the Democratic Labor Party who have been appointed to similar positions have carried out their duties in the past. 
I wish to speak to this motion. I was making a speech in which I was persistently interrupted in the most immoderate terms by  Senator Georges  and others. At no stage did 1 squeal about this behaviour. Speaking specifically to the motion, I point out that I did withdraw the statement that was  made about  Dr Cass.  I did say that I and the whole of Australia were misled. I think that 1 was right in saying that, because  Dr Cass  did say on this subject- 
Well, I said 'wrong', if  Senator James  McClelland wishes me to be more specific. I accept that correction. That is fair enough.  Dr Cass  said this- 

 - Dr Cass said- 
If what I read about  Dr Cass  is not right and this is a publication which is available- 
I will tell you in a moment what 1 am reading from. I will repeat the exact words used by  Dr Cass  on the subject. This was part of a statement thatit was issued on behalf of 5 members of the Commonwealth Parliament.It appeared in the 'Australian' on 21st March 1970. The 5 were:  Dr Klugman, Dr Jenkins. Dr Cass, Dr Everingham  and  Senator Wheeldon.  The article sets out what  Dr Cass,  supported by these gentlemen, said. It reads: 
I think that marihuana should be available to people who want it. ] think it should be legalised' ALP M.H.R.,  Dr Moss  Cass, in a joint statement with a number of other Australian M.H.R.s. 
I think that on the basis of that statement 1 was at least entitled to say that I and the rest of Australia were wrong. I notice that no member of the Opposition denies that that is a true statement of the exact words. If they wish to refer to the publication of that date, it is there for them to see. I do not see that I have added any offence. I have withdrawn the original remark to which objection was taken. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will allow the Child Care Bill to pass. It does not conform with the ideas which we have expressed in relation to the family. We recognise that in our community there is a necessity for some help in this area. I have listened to the speeches which have been made to date. As a father who has found no generation gap in his family because it was never allowed to develop, 1 shudder when I hear people talk of children under 5 years of age and of the tender age of 3 years being placed in the hands of trained staff. When do they feel they are being loved? Today I see trained staff teaching our young people at universities. These young people go in normal and adjusted. They are not in the universities under trained staff for very long before they develop all sorts of queer attitudes towards society. Of course, I know that this applies only to the minority who receive the Press publicity. Probably, if we searched the statistics, we would find that these young people arc from well adjusted homes and are not children who went to part time orphanages which are now given the very special name of child care centres. 
For a long time now we, as a civilised community, have recognised the deficiencies of orphanages. We have tried to take children out of institutionalised circumstances when, because of fate, they have no parents of their own to love them. For them to feel loved they have to be placed with families where they can be absorbed in a normal atmosphere. I listen to the alleged experts who are suggesting that we must institutionalise the care of children where people are forced by circum stances - and even where it is their own desire - to abandon a 3-year-old child for 8 hours a day 5 days a week to the care of an institution with expert, trained staff. Expert in what? Expert in pre-school education which  have heard mentioned? Does their training teach such staff to pay personal attention to the individual child, with its enormous curiosity about the terrific experience of life and living? Such a child wants special and personalised care to help it adjust to the challenges and fears which this great world must have for the mind of a 3-year-old child. Such a child runs to a well trained expert - who has no personal interest - al the same lime as, perhaps, 10 or 15 other children do. 
And the child returns to what? Perhaps the parent is a widower or a widow. If there are such circumstances it is regrettable that we have to create these places rather than having those children cared for in circumstances similar to those which we try to provide for orphans, which is in a home atmosphere. The average mother who has one or two children might not be specially trained. She may have no ambition to go out to work and if subsidised she might readily take a third child such as a 3-year-old, to share in the love of the family for the day. There would be no specialised nursing knowledge or anything like that; but there would be love, a family atmosphere and personal attention for the child. From my experience in dealing with children as a parent, I think this is far more important than knowing the germ content of the water which they may drink. I am horrified to know that 80 per cent of the children in Sweden have access to child care centres. I wonder what sort of a nation Sweden will become in the future? I hope it is not complaining about the generation gap because, if it is, that is where it started - at 3 years of age. 
What is the destiny of the child who comes home after 8 hours in a child care centre to a mother who is exhausted by 8 hours of employment in a factory or a shop and who is faced with preparing tea for her husband and one, 2 or 3 children as well? The child who has come home from the baby care centre is thrust out of the way while the urgent duties of feeding the rest of the family are engaged in. Then it is packed off to bed to sleep. In the morning it gets up to chaos and confusion and then goes off to the child care centre again. Of course, Saturday is the time for the child to be loved. Then, instead of giving him love, the parents spoil him because of conscience. 1 am not speaking from personal experience, but I have been told by people who have spent a lifetime in pre-school education about the position in the world today. One woman rang me only a fortnight ago and said that in America they are abandoning the idea of child care centres as they are regarded as evil institutions that are causing all sorts of troubles. So we say that we are prepared to allow this legislation to pass if we can find nothing better to fill the gap in our community where the need for them is unavoidable. But we should be doing everything that we can to discourage this need where it is not absolutely necessary. 
People are not having families of 6, 7 and 8 children in the general sense now. Some do, and they do not seek child minding centres or anything of this nature. Some women find a marvellous destiny in dealing with 6 or 7 different personalities in a developing country which requires far greater intelligence than is required for the manufacture of shoes or handbags or for stitching a tag on a shoe or a bit of lace onto a dress. A woman may be stitching lace onto the same type of dress all day; yet people talk of careers for women. On the other hand a woman may have 4, 5 or 6 children with completely different personalities which need to be loved. She has to meet the challenge of the adjustment of personalities within the family circle. I would prefer to see our society pointing to the idealism of a career of this character once a woman embarks upon it rather than have it say: 'Let us snatch you from the bondage of the bedroom and the kitchen and so on' - a domain which is all her own. There are many modern appliances to take much of the drudgery out of a woman's life and to leave her far more time than was available to our parents and grandparents to enjoy the intricacies of family life and the wonders of developing new lives and new personalities. I would rather view the problem from this aspect. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has always stood for the family. I can assure honourable senators that that is our attitude. We regret the need to institutionalise anything of this character at all. We have long advocated an increase in child endowment to stop the economic pressures that are forcing mothers to consider this type of neglect. The child who goes to the child care centre for 5 days a week for 8 hours a day, as envisaged in the second reading speech of the Minister, comes home to chaos and confusion, is swept off to bed to sleep, is awakened in the morning to similar chaos and confusion when the family is getting off to work, and in the process is dumped somewhere with strangers who do their best. These people have to deal with a number of children and it is beyond their capacity to treat the children individually. As a result the institutionalised aspect of these organisations must creep in. Children in these circumstances are unloved. They have no individuality and they are unwanted. They are raced home to be spoilt at the weekend by parents and then they face another week of the same sort of chaos and confusion. Is it any wonder that we have a generation gap? How can the child feel secure with constant changes in the people who are advising, helping and directing it? The child just gets to know and understand the personality of the expert who may be helping it in a part time capacity during the week when it has to adjust to its own parents at home again at the weekend. Once the weekend is over the child is sent to the child care centre again. 
No-one with any feeling for the child or the family could think that there was any possibility of improving the standards of civilisation by taking such a retrogressive step as is envisaged under this legislation. Surely in our grandparents generation we had begun to move away from the ideas of placing in orphanages children who were faced with the necessity of being reared by the State because their parents had died or had abandoned them. Today we try to place orphans as much as we can amongst other families and although not the whole of the gap can be bridged at least part of it can. There are far better ways of handling this problem than is envisaged in the legislation before us. I am glad that part of the Bill - this is one of the things that help us to allow the measure to pass - provides for scientific research. If the trend in Australia follows the pattern of other counries, particularly the United States of America on the advice tended to me, it will be discovered that these places are not the solution to the problem at all. We would like to see a subsidisation of the child, perhaps in the atmosphere of a family circle, rather than what is contained in the Bill. Whilst such an environment may not have the scientific technical perfection of the trained mothercraft nurse, it will at least have the softness of the family home and family background. 
The Bill seeks to provide §23m for the purpose stated. This is not much of an expense for the Commonwealth. A lot of this money will come from the mothers who go to work. Of course, the mother will pay taxation and the fathers will be unable to claim a rebate for them. Therefore the Commonwealth coffers will be further filled by the taxation it is clearing from this area of activity. The sum of S23m will be put back. Indeed, I would think that the Commonwealth would be gaining. But let us see what our society as a whole is losing. Let us note how child delinquency figures continue to rise. Any child psychiatric expert will tell us today that this is mostly because of neglect in the family. Is this neglect in the form of a lack of food, clothing or shelter, or is it neglect of the time necessary to establish proper relationships - a neglect of time in which the child can feel wanted, special and loved in a family circumstance? How can it feel loved when the only time it spends time at home for the majority of the week it is asleep? When does such a child learn to understand the personalities of its parents and make the necessary adjustments to live in harmony with them? It will not be able to do this if it is a constant resident at a child care centre. 
A woman with a lifetime of experience in pre-school teaching expressed very strong views to me on this matter. She described these institutions as 8-hour-a-day orphanages or mother neglect centres, not child welfare centres. I hope that the Government will keep these things in mind and will not anticipate the demands of the labour market, which some experts say is over-supplied. We are making provision in the main under this legislation for mothers who may not need to be in the labour market and who could do a far more important and worthwhile job in the home circle if we were to ease the economic pressure that is forcing them out to work. The policy of the DLP has been for an increase in child endowment to keep pace with increases in the cost of living. We cannot get the Government to listen to us to the extent that we would like. 
The Government will spend the money, of course. Do not tell me,  Senator Georges,  what you would support, because we have given your Party opportunity after opportunity to support us on these policies. The Labor Party has never supported us at all. The honourable senator is amongst those who are grizzling and saying that the unemployment figures are the greatest threat the country has ever known when he knows as well as I do that there are many people who have 2 jobs and many families who have 3 jobs. The recognised Opposition of this country has abandoned the principle of the family society and has endorsed, and indeed not only approved but sponsored, the permissive society that is wrecking the family community. 
Yes, you advocate it when you think of it, and you are a long way behind us in terms of amounts and everything else. 
Of course they have abandoned the principle of one man one job. That deflects me from the principles I am outlining in relation to child care centres. It brings me then to the amendment. 
 It depends on what  Senator George's  vision is as a member of the Australian Labor Party and what my vision is as to what constitutes poverty and if  Senator George's  mind does not rise above monetary matters and materialism, let me assure him that mine does. He thinks of poverty only in terms of the wealth that people have and seems to spend most of his time being jealous of somebody who has $1 more than he has. He wants to call them capitalists and himself pure because he is a working man of some shape or form. I do not know what his job is. I understand that he owns businesses too. There are as many wealthy lawyers, doctors and other people in  Senator George's  party as there are in any other party, lt is not a matter of material wealth it is a matter of poverty of love, poverty of attention and care that we are talking about and it is completely above the minds of the people who suggest that they represent the working class. The working class does not want to be in the position where mothers are forced by economic circumstances to accept employment. However many mothercraft nurses there are, when a child is taken to a child care centre where there are a number of ot'-.er children and trained scientific staff, it is in an institution. 
If  Senator Georges  has abandoned his children to this type of rearing I hope he will not suffer the recriminations that many do when they find that there is a generation gap. 
I am glad I am so far behind those times because I feel that those times are the ones which are creating the enormous problems throughout the world today that we did not have when life was not geared to this tempo. In those days people played their role in life and a mother was with her children in a home. In that home she was the most important person in a family group which sometimes numbered 7, 8 or 9. Today she can work in a factory or a shop or in any of the 99 per cent of vocations which are open to women, leaving aside the specialised vocations, such as a fashion career or medicine. But the women in these specialised vocations do not constitute the great mass of women who are working. Where are the great careers of the majority of them? Is it putting the wiggle on top of a chocolate all day and sacrificing the enormous love and affection that her children can develop for her? 

 - Senator Georges would not take the women out of the factories. He sits here advocating that they should be put into them. I want to say something about the amendment and if  Senator Georges  is still interjecting when I have finished with the amendment he will go plum crazy. 
Of course we are allowing it to be passed because there is no other way suggested. But the Democratic Labor Party is on the march and its membership is growing. The day will come when people will realise the limitations of the philosophy of permissiveness that the Opposition is selling them. Already there is great fear amongst mothers in this community that they have been sold a pup in the ideas on dope taking that members of the Opposition put forward, as well as ideas on the unlimited access to pornography with no censorship. Mothers are becoming fear stricken at the effects these ideas are having in their family circles and they are turning back to what one might call the foolish old-fashioned ideas of people concerned with the family itself. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable members opposite will cease interjecting. I call  Senator Little. 
I  shall endeavour not to provoke honourable senators opposite with common sense they do not understand and will deal merely with the amendment. The amendment states:  thai the  Commonwealth Government should  take the  initiative  to  establish child  care centres . . . 
That is what the Commonwealth Government has done within the ambit of what is possible for it to do. The Commonwealth Government cannot march into the various States of the Commonwealth and start slapping a Commonwealth-imposed child care system on them. 
The Commonwealth Government would probably be thrown out by the States because, under the Australian Constitution, this is an area which is within the jurisdiction of the States. The Commonwealth Government can give grants to the States and stipulate that those funds will be used for specific purposes. That is what the Bill does. 
Members of the Australian Labor Party have suggested that some improvement in the system could be effected by removing the responsibility for child care services from the jurisdiction of the States, which may already have at least some knowledge and staff in this field, putting this entire area of welfare - from the far north of Queensland to the depths of Western Australia - under the control of a department of experts in Canberra. Of course, what members of the Opposition are suggesting is the further institutionalising of the institutionalisation that has already been suggested and to which I object anyway. So, the Democratic Labor Party does not accept the first amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party. It is silly to suggest an amendment which is impracticable. Indeed, that honourable senators opposite want to take from the State governments the jurisdiction over child care centres seems to indicate a lack of confidence in the State Labor governments. Perhaps members of the Labor Party consider the State Labor governments to be of a temporary nature; I leave that to them to decide. Surely honourable senators opposite feel that the State governments would be better equipped to handle this field of welfare and would handle it better than if the whole area were institutionalised in Canberra where the Labor Party does not even have a government of its political complexion. Or have honourable senators opposite lost confidence in the marihuana-taking, pornographic advocacy of the members of the parliamentary Labor Party who hold those views? Can honourable senators opposite not bear the idea of people- 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator Little,  do you want to speak to the point of order? 
No, I do not want to speak to the point of order; I thought it was nonsense. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I think you should refrain from referring to members of the Australian Labor Party as you have been doing, and continue with your speech. 
I am sorry that I mentioned the members of the medical profession who are also members of the parliamentary Labor Party and who have advocated marihuana for everyone. 1 am sorry that I mentioned them at all and I will not persist in mentioning them. 
I did not imply it; I referred to  Dr Cass  who is a member of the parliamentary Labor Party and who advocates marihuana. 
 I will withdraw the remarks if they are offensive to  Senator Georges.  I and the rest of Australia must have mistaken what  Dr Cass  said;I  will  look forward to his explanation. 
 What were the offensive words? 
 My words were couched in the best of- 
 So was I when I was making a speech. You are squealing now. You cannot take it. 
 I will be orderly,  Mr Deputy President. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  -  Senator  Little has withdrawn that remark already. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Little  will you unconditionally withdraw those remarks? 
 Yes. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Little  has agreed unconditionally to withdraw the remarks.I call  Senator Little. 
We are all wrongthe whole of Australia. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  -  Senator Little  has already withdrawn what he said. I call Senate Little. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! There is no point of order. . 
Debate interrupted. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President- 

The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. (Extension oftime granted) 
-I thank the Senate for its indulgence in granting me the extra time because I have lost a fair bit of my time. I was dealing with the Opposition's amendment to the Bill when I seemed to arouse their ire. I think that I dealt effectively with the ineffectiveness of paragraph (a) of the amendment. Paragraph (b) reads as follows: 
That Child Care Centres should be within the province of the Department of Education and Science, and should be part of a pre-school system developed progressively throughout the nation. 
It is not the policy of the Party to which I belong to conduct a pre-school system for the whole nation from Canberra. The requirements in a continent as vast as Australia differ widely. We feel that it would be much better to conduct the system on a localised basis with grants from the Commonwealth. We would not support a proposal for child care centres to be placed in the hands of departments of education, even in the various States. 
We feel that the matter is one more of a social character and a medical and health character than of education. The greatest threat in child care centres is not to the physical well being of the child but rather to its mental well-being. We do not believe that taking children of 3 years of age and treating them as subjects for education and science would greatly improve child care centres. I have made suggestions that child care centres should be less institutionalised where such care is unavoidable where mothers or widowed fathers are forced to have their children cared for by somebody else during certain vital hours. We should subsidise private families to fill the gap as that type of care would held less danger of psychiatric damage to the child than any institutionalised system. That is why my party opposes this part of the amendment as well. It supports the Bill and opposes the amendment. 

 - Mr President, I ask for leave to make a statement. I wish to make a personal explanation in regard to the matters that have been raised. 
 I believe it is quoting Hansard completely out of context when it is said I suggested that  Senator Wheeldon  is a taker of marihuana. I said that members of his Party were guilty of the advocacy of marihuana taking. When people suggest that the laws relating to the taking of marihunana should be abolished, I can place no other construction on such a statement than that these people advocate the taking of marihuana. I am a simple minded person and I lack the mental capacity of  Senator Wheeldon.  If my statement has offended  Senator Wheeldon  I am quite happy to apologise. This matter was brought up during the pressure of debate last night when I was discussing the Child Care Bill, lt was not promoted by me but by people who were interjecting while I was speaking about child welfare. 1 do not see why we had to get involved in this altercation; If I had been left alone it would not have happened. 1 did misquote when I said that  Senator Wheeldon  was among the 5 people that had made such a statement. I had so many statements that I inadvertently mixed them up. The statement was by 5 parliamentarians and one of them was  Dr Turnbull,  an independent member of the Senate.  Senator Wheeldon  was not one of those 5 and I apologise to him for including his name in that category. I think that  Senator Wheeldon  identified himself as a person who wished to remove the laws that prevented the taking of marihuana in his minority report as a member of the Senate 
Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I think in that manner he advocated the taking of marihuana. I do not apologise for that suggestion. Seeing that certain documents were tabled last night, I ask for leave to table the article which appeared in the 'Australian' of 21st March 1970 and which stated that 5 MP doctors want to legalise pot. I named 4 members of the Australian Labor Parly last night. The other person concerned was  Senator Turnbull.  The 4 ALP members are  Dr Klugman, Dr Moss  Cass,  Dr Jenkins  and  Dr D.  N. Everingham, of Queensland. If the 'Australian' did them an injustice by saying in that article on 21st March 1970 that they wanted to legalise pot, it is for the newspaper to answer. I seek leave of the Senate to table the complete article that appeared in the 'Australian' on that day. 
I do not think there is any need for me to say anything further. I think the statement that I attributed to  Dr Moss  Cass - 
I thought I had been interrupted by a point of order. 
1 want to dear up the matter relating to my alleged misquotation of  Dr Cass.  In case I did nol quote him in full or that I misquoted him in any way, I shall quote in full the remarks that I should have quoted. If I left anything out, as was suggested by  Senator Wheeldon,  I think it is only fair to  Dr Moss  Cass that I quote the whole of the statement attributed to him in the 'Australian'. It is as follows: 

 Dr Cass: 'I think that marihuana should  be available to people who want it.' 
As I remember the circumstances, that was part of my quotation last night. This article continued: 
Prohibition never stops anything: it often makes people want to try something. Education would stop it. Evidence does not seem to show that it's harmful. I think it should be legalised, with penalties no different from those applied to drinking alcohol'. 
The article goes on to refer to what  Dr Jenkins  said. I have no correction to make in that regard and I do not want to quote what appeared. In fairness to  Dr Cass  I have read that statement on to the record and on that irrefutable evidence my case rests. 
We have before us a Bill to which we have been able to give some consideration; it is a Bill of some  8  pages, including the schedule. We have before us now also an amendment which was circulated to me only yesterday and which comprises  10  pages of material - and this is a matter to which we have been unable to give consideration at all. Those who understand the ramifications of political Party activity are aware that the responsibility for information about different Government departments is allocated to different members. Because the Democratic Labor Party is a smaller Party, we members of it must perhaps accept responsibility for more departments in our activities than do members of other Parties. For instance, I arn required to consider Bills for  5  departments and, as honourable senators will know, I was engaged last night on a matter connected with the Child Care Bill  1972  which led to some controversy and which absorbed all my time. I have thus not been able to discuss with my colleagues the amendments which have been so lately handed to me. 
1  do not know that a day's adjournment would be of any assistance to me since the amendments are far greater in length than the Bill itself. 
-As I have already explained to the Senate, if  1  wasted my time tracking down everything that is circulated in the other place, particularly amendments which come to mean nothing and which very often are abandoned by the Labor Party, I am afraid I would be of little use in this House. Maybe some honourable senators hold the opinion that  1  am not of very much use - but at least I try to do my job to the best of my ability. I have no doubt that at least that remark will receive some support from honourable senators.  Senator Bishop  suggested that we should know something about these proposed amendments because they had been distributed by the Labor Party for some considerable time. He also mentioned that the Australian Council of Trade Unions had seen fit to make representations to the Minister. Of course  1  am completely unaware of what those representations are. To the best of my knowledge the ACTU has sent no deputation or made no submission to the Party to which  T  belong to inform us of its requirements. 
We have received communications from various industries which are involved. Indeed, some of the unions which are affiliated wilh the Australian Democratic Labor Party have kept us reasonably informed of the requirements of the trade union movement in these areas. We are grateful to them for their sensibility and intelligence in recognising that allowing political prejudice to interfere with keeping members of Parliament fully informed about their requirements is not a very sin.sible procedure. It may benefit the work of the ACTU and the trade union movement in general if those who are interested in ACTU activity acquaint the controllers of the ACTU of the fact that for legislation to pass the Senate they would be wise to keep all parties and independent honourable senators who sit in this chamber fully informed on their requirements. They should not allow political prejudice to blind their judgment of what is the best attitude to adopt in the. interests of their members. 
I would not have a clue. With the pressures which are on me now I cannot say whether  1  did. I just cannot recall. It could very well be that we did. We had some deputations here at different times from members of Federal unions in relation to various matters in which they were interested. 
1  have never broken down yet under any sort of pressure.  1  am not the type of person who usually cracks under pressure. It could be that some people hold different opinions of me but I have been under a lot of pressure in my lifetime, particularly in the last  20  years when I decided as a matter of principle that there were political issues for which  1  had to stand up. Some, of those pressures have been in the form of anonymous telephone calls at  2  o'clock,  3  o'clock and  4  o'clock in the morning to my wife. But we have not broken under those pressures, and I do not think that any of the pressures here are sufficiently strong to cause that to happen. 
1  was talking about compensation. I suggest it is time that the honourable senator learned that it is unwise to interrupt and divert a person from the. matter which is under specific attention. After all, the honourable senator does not always win. Even that ought to seep through to the ego of some of the people who are associated with the honourable senator, as well as to the honourable senator himself. 1 prefer to be allowed to consider this situation on logical grounds. I think  Senator Cavanagh  would be the first to agree that if he were handed a Bill of some 8 pages and then 10 pages of amendments on the day before the debate he could not be expected to give mature consideration to those amendments on behalf of the people he represents. These amendments relate to very serious matters because, they affect compensation at a very delicate time in the life of the Parliament. I have been very fair to the honourable senator's Party. I have told his colleagues that if they were prepared to move all of these amendments this would virtually mean the adjournment of this matter sine die because of the state of the Parliament at this moment. If any amendments are decided upon they will have to be considered in another place before the workers concerned with the benefits to be paid under this Bill will receive any of them. They would prevent the Bill now becoming law. I would not for a moment suggest that these amendments are brought in here purely to give an airing to the policy of the ALP in relation to this matter for the next election, seeing that our proceedings are being broadcast today. I would not like to suggest that it has no possible hope of carrying these amendments but there are some people who would consider that, because of the manner in which these amendments have been introduced, that is probably a more logical assessment of the situation than to accept them as seriously intended to be carried by this chamber at this time. I have already made an offer to the honourable senator's Party that if it is prepared to adjourn these matters so that they can be properly considered - it will have to accept the consequences 
 There is plenty to say about the Bill. It is a very worthy Bill. I think even the honourable senator's Party has established that point. I do not suggest that I will not say something about it but at this stage I am dealing with the amend ments. I think it is important that we do this because, after all, the amendments are bigger than the Bill. If the amendments are larger and more complex than the Bill, then I suppose they should be given at least consideration equal to that given to the Bill. I have suggested to the Australian Labor Party that it is a simple matter to move for the adjournment of this Bill. Then we can evaluate in a simple light whether the benefits which will be paid in the interim period to beneficiaries under this Bill will compensate for the fact that we cannot accept at this time the amendments of the Labor Party, however commendable they may be. We can make a simple decision on this matter very quickly. If the Labor Party is prepared to move for the adjournment of the Bill - that will bury it until a new Parliament assembles - then my Party will give that very serious consideration. We wait with interest to see whether the Labor Party is prepared to move such an adjournment. 
No, I am not in a position to take the initiative. It would be futile for us with our 5 members to move such an amendment unless we were assured at the beginning of the attitude of the Australian Labor Party. 
 If  Senator Bishop  told me anything at all I would believe him. But if his Party as such told me, I would not trust it not to change its mind before tomorrow. The honourable senator's sincerity and integrity are absolutely beyond reproach with me but surely I could not be blamed if, to some extent, I doubted whether his Party would be of the same mind tomorrow as it is today in relation to any matter, workers compensation or anything else.  His  Party changes its mind on every public statement which is  issued.  However much I respect  Senator Bishop  and perhaps a few other members of his Party, I say that there are many people in his Party at present making statements about an enormous number of matters which have political consequences because an election is in the offing. 
Unlike the honourable senator. I do not always stand up here seeking votes. I stand up here to speak in the best interests of the Australian people. To me it is very interesting to see the manner in which the honourable senator's mind works in relation to matters which are raised.  His  attitude seems to be: How many votes are in it? Perhaps that is the clue to the variety of policies which are enunciated from time to time. When no votes are obvious in them, such matters are abandoned as quickly as they are enunciated. That is what leads to the confusion which I was pointing out to  Senator Bishop.  I could accept whatever he said but I am afraid that 1 am not in a position to advise my Party that it should accept any proposition as valid which is put up by the Labor Party. It does not have a continuity of thought. What it believes tomorrow might not be what it is putting up today. The point I have been making is that it is completely impossible for us to consider the amendments at this stage of the debate because, in accordance with the usual principles which are adopted in this Parliament, we have not been given a fair opportunity to fully consider or to evaluate them in a manner which is sufficient to meet our responsibility to the people who sent us here to represent them logically in relation to items of legislation. Of course the legislation is very necessary and worth while. It was promised by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  during the course of the Budget Speech. We agree with the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  that to some extent the legislation not only fulfils the objectives of the Government as outlined in the Budget; it exceeds them. We think that to that degree the Government should be commended for the things which are contained in this Bill, lt considerably improves the benefits which are paid to people who are concerned under the Commonwealth Act. 
Setting suspended from 1 to 2 p.m. 
 Mr President,  in view of the limited time available to the Senate I do not propose to discuss this Bill any further at great length. It provides the necessary provisions for the normal progression of increases in payments and fits in completely with the promises made by the Government in its Budget which was accepted by the people. We are concerned to ensure that the benefits are not denied to beneficiaries for any period at all. That is the danger that we see in the foreshadowed amendments of the Australian Labor Party. We are fully conscious of the consequences that would flow if the ALP accepted my offer for the debate to be adjourned. We are conscious also of the problems that would arise in the implementation of this scheme if the Bill were amended at this stage. We think a more sensible approach is to accept the Bill as it is and seek to amend the legislation at another time when it is more propitious for the people who will benefit from it. Any amendment of the Bill by the Senate at this point in the parliamentary timetable unquestionably would hold up the legislation for an unpredictable period. 
I think that acquiescence by my Party in the foreshadowed amendments proposed by the Opposition would be a shock to it. I do not think that the Opposition believes that there is any possibility of its proposed amendments being carried or, indeed, that it believes that they should be carried in view of the inevitable fact that it would mean that the Bill would be buried for a lengthy period and that therefore many people injured during that period would be denied benefits under the legislation. We cannot accept the assurance given by  Senator Bishop,  although he made it in all sincerity. He suggested that we should know all about the amendments because they have been part of Labor's code on compensation for some 12 months. 1 am certain that he will forgive me if I remind the Senate of the frequent occasions when the Labor shadow Minister,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, has made statements on labour questions. One that flies immediately to my mind is the question of strikes and penalties that would be enacted by a Labor Government against people who engaged in unauthorised strikes. I think that the shadow Minister of the Labor Party,  Mr 
Clyde Cameron, who leads his Party in this area, was quite sincere when he made his statement on what Labor's policy was but within 2 days that was not Labor's policy. The unions and the Federal Executive of the ALP met and they told  Mr Clyde  Cameron that although he might be shadow Minister in this field of operations the policy he was enunciating was not going to be the policy, however much he believed in it, that the Labor Party would enact if it became the Federal Government.  Mr Clyde  Cameron was forced to change his public utterances. He did so on television, with a great deal of reluctance, and stated a private point of view at that time that what he thought he had said was in the interests of the Australian people but that had nothing to do with what his actions would be subsequently. 
We should not take too seriously any suggestion that we should be aware of the Labor Party's policy on questions of workers compensation or anything else. I am certain that those members of the ALP who arc logical enough to appreciate the sudden changes of front that occur every now and again will forgive us if we do not take them too seriously. We believe that the foreshadowed amendments have been drawn up largely for political purposes and in order to enunciate Labor's policy. Members of the Opposition have that right. Their policy has now been enunciated. We believe that the Bill should be passed as quickly as possible. Not even members of the Labor Party think that they will be able to implement that particular plank of the Party's platform. 
We believe that the Bill is reasonable and sensible. We believe it is essential that the working people who will benefit from it have these benefits available to them as soon as possible. Any tampering with the Bill or any playing around with amendments as lengthy and as little understood as the proposed amendments are now would serve no good purpose for anybody at all. We do not think the Labor Party seriously expects its proposed amendments to be adopted. We support the Bill. 
J give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
Thai the Senate is of the opinion thai the Government should establish immediately a national rural hank as a means of providing long-term, low interest loans and the funding and refinancing of rural debts, including an interest free and non-redemption period for lnc debts so funded. 

 Senator MURPHY (New South Wales - Leader of the Government in the Senate) - 1 ask for leave to move a motion to restore to the Notice Paper a notice of motion for the disallowance of certain regulations. May I shortly indicate why I seek leave to move the motion? 
Can the Minister representing the Treasurer inform the Senate whether the rate of outflow of capital from Australia subsequent to the recent revaluation of the Australian dollar has now reached an average level of from $20m to $250m a week? What will be the total balance of reserves of overseas exchange by 30th June 1973 if the current rate of outflow, whatever it is, continues? At what point does the Treasurer consider the deterioration of reserves engendered by this flight of capital will seriously endanger Australia's situation? What steps does the Government contemplate as necessary to check the drift if it should continue or accelerate? 
I address a question to the Attorney-General who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. What is the present employment of  Mr Richard  Hall whom the Prime Minister announced on 16th February would be appointed to the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts? The announcement as reported in the Press simply described him as 'playwright, New South Wales'. Is this his full-time profession or does he have other employment? If so, what is the nature of such employment and by whom is he employed? 
The Senate has before it a perfectly logical proposition on a matter of great importance on which it has been asked to express an opinion. Despite this a lot of extraneous matter has been brought into the debate. Indeed it has been argued that the presentation of this proposition was designed to introduce emotionalism and everything else into the controversy surrounding the border dispute. A reading of the proposition will show that it refers to nothing that is emotional in any way. 
It seems obvious from  Senator Georges'  speech (hat somebody had to do something to ensure that the rights of the people of the Tories Strait Islands were considered. Lots of people all over the world in the last quarter of a century have said they knew what was good for everybody else. Hitler knew what was good for the Austrians and even the English.  Senator Georges  suggests that in Greece today the Government there knows more about what is good for the people than do the people themselves. The Government does not appear to be prepared to discuss the horder issue with the Torres Strait islanders. Let us have a border dispute which has been manufactured by somebody who thinks he has a claim to certain islands because they happen to be somewhat adjacent to his own territory. The people of these islands are of entirely different character, racial background and culture from that of the people of Papua New Guinea. 

 Senator Georges said that the Government was not giving away the islands, it wis only moving the border further to the south. He even said that the ancestors of the present Torres Strait islanders did not matter. If the islands are to be given away, what will happen to the graves of the islanders' ancestors as was mentioned earlier? Those are things which are important to these people. I have heard honourable senators opposite advocat ing the preservation of the Aboriginal culture in Australia. We know that some of it is mysticism, but it is important to them. What will happen to the culture of the Torres Strait islanders if the border is changed and these islands come under the jurisdiction of Papua New Guinea? The position in Papua New Guinea is such at present that nobody in this chamber will be prepared to guarantee the safety of any section of the people of Papua New Guinea when that country receives self-determination Nobody can guarantee th at there will not be some day one of the greatest blood baths in the world in that country. These Torres Strait islanders have no ti;s with the people of Papua New Guinea. They just happen to live adjacent to the coastline of Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea is a country which has nothing to do with them. 
It has been said that people travelling from one part of Papua New Guinea to another might have to sail through Australian waters. Has it ever been suggested that Australia will raise any objection to their doing that providing they go about their business in a proper manner? Has it ever been suggested that their rights of transit will be interfered with in any way whatsoever? Has there ever been any dispute about this matter? Is there any reason why the lands and homes of the Torres Strait islanders should be ceded to Papua New Guinea? Have the people of Papua New Guinea ever suffered any inconvenience? The answer is no. They say: 'The islands are there and are close to us. We would like to have them'. I have no doubt that they would. I have no doubt that a lot of people i:i this chamber look at the property of the fellow next door and think: T would like to have that. too'. Surely we will not reach the stage of shifting the border merely because somebody lays a claim. Other islands are closer to a nation other than the nation '.hat has become the nation of traditional origin. Tn history many of the real origins of people have been lost. 
Those lines cannot be withdrawn without causing a great tragedy similar to tragedies that have occurred recently in other parts of the world. Those tragedies were caused by the drawing of artificial lines between people and by saying: 'We shall create a new nation in this area. We shall force people of one type and race to live under the jurisdiction of another.' The drawing of artificial lines has" created some of the greatest tragedies that the world has known. These islands have been occupied traditionally by members of the present race. The people have been there for so long and have created their own way of life that they have a right to stay there. 
What, is the matter of urgency? Far from being emotional, if contains a statement that no Torres Strait island should be transferred from its present sovereignty without a referendum of the people of the islands proposed to bc transferred. What is unreasonable or emotional about that proposition? 
 Senator Byrne  made a mighty speech, every word of which was off the cuff, I listened to the reply of the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee).  Every word of his speech was read. The Senate is not in a position to know whether he prepared his speech. 
 I respect his right, as a Minister, to read his speech, but I do not concede that because he is a Minister other honourable senators should not interject. I apologise because I was one who interjected and was reprimanded by the  Deputy President.  I do not believe that on an issue such as this Ministers have a greater right than anyone else to read a speech that may or may not be their own thoughts on the proposition. The speech might have been written by a journalist or by somebody else - even a Papua New Guinean who has a vested interest in the proposition. So do not criticise the splendid speech made by my colleague  Senator Byrne  when he explained the issue to those who were intelligent enough to listen to it and to follow it. Do not make a comparison with the Minister's speech which was read to the Senate - and read very well indeed, I have no doubt. 
The facts are as I have stated them. The honourable senator knows that as well as I do. There is nothing emotional in the proposition. 
It is a very common sense proposition, as the honourable senator and 1, two intelligent senators acting in the interests of the States which we represent, would be the first to agree. If these islands were off the coast of Western Australia and if the honourable senator had weekend fishing interests in those waters he would not be prepared to give the islands to somebody else. People living on the Torres Strait islands have their fishing interests. That is how they live lt is true that many of these people travel long distances to find employment. That is to their great credit. 
lt is also true that in that area there is a need for social services. I will accept what the honourable senator has said about a map which he produced to show that certain companies have applied for oil leases. What does that prove? fs the honourable senator endeavouring to prove that BjelkePetersen has sufficient influence over Gough Whitlam and that now that  Mr Whitlam  is the Prime Minister the leases will be granted to Bjelke-Petersen's company, and that that is the reason why the Government is giving away the Torres Strait islands to Papua New Guinea? No other logical conclusion can be drawn from the map that the honourable senator went to so much trouble to produce to show that some company in which it is alleged by the honourable senator that BjelkePetersen has shares has applied for an oil lease in the area. 
The popularity of BjelkePetersen, as indicated in the speeches of Labor members tonight would seem to be such that they think he has sufficient influence over the members of the new Federal Government to see that he gets the oil lease that he wants for his company. I would never allege that a fellow member of the Federal Parliament would be involved in seeing that Bjelke-Petersen gets the lease. If anybody suggests that he is likely to get them, which  Senator Georges  suggests, let the doubt be on his head, because I would not suggest it. 
Apparently  Senator Georges  agrees with the honourable senator but I do not. I do not think that what BjelkePetersen is doing has anything to do with any oil companies in which he may have an interest. It is a straight out plain fact. We are interested in people. The islands have at least 100 warriors. The 100 warriors would be stronger than the forces which could be provided toy the Queensland Government, which  Senator Georges  suggested should be there defending the people's fishing rights. With what? The Queensland fleet? The Queensland fleet, which is non-existent, would be more powerful than the armed forces of Australia under a Labor government, the way that the Government is going. The 100 warriors, with their heart and soul set on defending their homeland, might be a lot more effective defence structure for the Torres Strait islands that the Labor Government would provide for them. 
I do not believe that Papua New Guineans feel strongly about the Torres Strait islands. They have an enormous problem to face because, as an emerging nation, there is a huge amount of terrain which has to be supervised. Out of that will come problems which they recognise as being so immense that they are not anxious to cut the cord with this country. But Papua New Guinea is being told bythe present Government: 'You will be independent whether you like it or not'. Papua New Guinea has made no real aggressive claims to these islands. Some of its politicians have suggested that they would like to have the islands. As a response to that suggestion the then Leader of the Opposition of this country, who went there to popularise himself, said: 'We will give you the lot'. Now it is suggested that he does not really mean that and that we should talk about the suggestion. But he has said that. 
Because he has said that, it is wise that the Senate, representing the sovereignty of the States, should take a stand and say: 'We believe, firstly, that Queensland, as the State affected, has a right to some say and, secondly, that nothing should be done without consultation and without a referendum of the people concerned - the people whose homes are involved'. We could uproot them. We could take them away and put them on other islands. We could sever them completely from everything they have learned to live with and from everything that they hold dear or else we could let them go with the country. 
If we did, would the honourable senator be prepared to guarantee or be in a position to guarantee their personal safety? Does he know the circumstances in Papua New Guinea, outside those in a very few isolated areas that are under some sort of proper control and some sort of proper jurisdiction? 
The honourable senator knows as well as  I  do that if there is to be any criticism of the way in which this country has developed we should sharethe criticism because we have not helped enough, although we have helped enormously particularly with wealth and talent in recent years. The tribes in Papua New Guinea will have an enormous task in adjusting to each other. No honourable senator opposite would guarantee the safety of any sector of that community in the early days of its independence. Yet they say that the Torres Strait islanders can take their chances with Papua New Guinea or they can move to other islands where they will have to re-adapt their way of life. Old people will have to find new homes and new interests. Honourable senators opposite say that that would be fair. That does not take into account the suggestion contained in the matter of urgency - consultation with the people there. We do not suggest that one thing or the other should be done. We suggest that nothing be done until the people are consulted. There is a clear principle that should be fundamental to all those who have belonged to a nation which on several occasions has seen fit to stake its future in the freedom of the world. The third papagraph of  Senator Byrne's  motion reads: 
That in no circumstances should any individual Australian citizen of those islands have citizenship transferred to that of any other nation unless with his or her explicit consent. 
This is the danger if these islands are transferred. The people themselves are transferred or, alternatively, they are uprooted and thrust elsewhere. I believe these reasons justify the motion. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. In view of the Minister's answer that Taiwan was a province of China, can he inform the Senate whether that view was held by bis Party before the 10th October celebrations at the Embassy of the Republic of China where, at the invitation of  His Excellency  Ambassador Chen, many Labor members attended and expressed by their presence and enjoyment of the hospitality generously provided, their support for Taiwan? Did the Australian Labor Party members there present join in the toast to the Republic of China, which recognised that Taiwan was a separate entity to the Communist Government of China, or did' -they refuse to drink? 
The debate has been very interesting indeed, I must admit that until I heard  Senator Greenwood,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, suggest that he was in favour of legislation for 4 weeks annual leave I doubted, and I am certain my colleagues doubted, that we would have been on the side of his legislation. Until I had heard the cass put by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  and the interjections of his supporters I had believed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  virtually was in favour of the idea contained in  Senator Greenwood's  proposition; that is that no restriction should be placed on an individual's receiving the benefits of the promises made by the Prims Minister in his election campaign because of an ancillary matter relating to membership of trade unions. I thought that the current argument was between the Prime Minister and tha Public Service Board as to the application of the determination, rather than about the determination itself. However, I have been forced by the interjections I have heard here today to accept that many supporters of the present Government believe that the Prime Minister's statement means that he believes that everybody should be considered to be a unionist for the purpose of the decision reflected in the Public Service determination. Interjections today have left no doubt that many members of the Prime Minister's Party do not agree with him on that issue. Indeed, they have indicated that they are prepared to fight tooth and nail to support the minor qualification to the important consideration of 4 weeks annual leave, the minor qualification being membership of a trade union. 

 Senator Greenwood has made it perfectly clear that the Government has to do only what has been done before - to introduce legislation to change the word from 'three' to four' in the annual leave provision relating to the Public Service - to obtain the support of the Opposition. There is no doubt about where my colleagues and I stand. We also would agree. We would be prepared to go a step further. If the Government is in any way embarrassed by anything that may take place between it and the Public Service Board or anyone else, we are prepared to state that we will bring down a private member's Bill. If the determination is disallowed and there is not within 24 hours a measure before the Parliament in this or another place to ensure that the promises of the Prime Minister during the election campaign are carried into effect, we are prepared to take that step. 
I believe that in considering the ambit of the determination we must consider all the principles involved. I heard a member of the Government Party suggest by interjection that trade union officials are completely above criticism. I heard the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy),  when Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, suggest that legislation should be introduced to protect trade union officials from the normal application of the law in respect of their misdemeanours during industrial disputes. I am not prepared to concede that, and I do not think that many Australians would be prepared to concede it or to accept the idea that because somebody has become a trade union official he has become a very special type of person who can in no way offend and who is absolutely everything that is noble. I remind my fellow unionists of many cases in which trade union officials have shown that they are quite ordinary and normal human beings. I have great sympathy for many of them. I, too, was a trade union official. There have often been cases of trade union officials who were so low as to go through with the funds of a union. It might not have been generally known but it was known to those of us who were in the unions and worked in the unions that as a class trade union officials were amongst- the lowest paid people in the community having regard to the responsibilities they had to accept and the abilities they had to develop. It was not surprising that some of them were forced at times by the pressure of almost dire poverty to go through with the union funds. 
 That is true. People have even gone through with ALP funds. 
 There is no argument at all about the absolute truth of the statement I made. It is suggested by interjection that I ought not to be a dobber, but the honourable senator wants every trade union official to be a dobber by going to the Public ServiceBoard and saying: 'Joe Blow is not a member of a union and therefore is not eligible for 4 weeks annual leave'. He suggests that a trade union official is an exception;!- person in the community who can be entrusted with particular power over the people with whom he associates. Even in his own Party there have been cases of high and prominent officials who have had romantic affairs with the wives of other officials. But he would place these people in the position where they could become pimps on workers who are not members of unions and thus gain some retaliatory advantage for what they considered to bc offences in private behaviour. 

 Mr President, I am amazed at the reaction to a statement of fact that trade union officials are just normal human beings who are subject to all the limitations, temptations and weaknesses of ordinary people, irrespective of whether they are members of the Democratic Labor Party, the Australian Labor Party or any other organisation. In the philosophy to which I have always subscribed as a Labor man, nobody has ever been sufficiently pure to be entrusted with powers placing him above the law, with powers to deny to his fellow human beings something that is their right because of their employment. Government supporters would create that situation, not merely by deciding for or against 4 weeks annual leave but by the qualification that on a specific date a person had to be a member of a trade union. 
I have read through the list of applications for receipt of the benefit to be applied to members of unions. I have noticed that some unions did not apply until after 1st January last. Those unions had therefore not involved themselves in the expenditure of their money in working for this particular benefit, but members of those unions would bc recipients of the benefit. However, a fellow who joined a union on 2nd January would not be a recipient of the benefit, ls that fair and just? Do honourable senators opposite consider that that is justice? 
 If that is the decision of the Board, why not reject the Board's determinations and introduce legislation putting the situation right? That is all that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition suggests that the Government should do. Then we would nol be wasting the time of this Senate or of an one else and we would be able to provide 4 weeks annual leave, backdated to 1st January, for everybody employed in the Public Service in accordance with the promise of the Prime Minister. I am certain that the Prime Minister has a sense of honour and that he wants to see thai promise carried out to the benefit o! every individual and not have it in iiic restricted sense suggested by those who have interjected during this debate in this chamber and who wish it to apply only to members o! the unions. 
Determinations in the industrial field have the same legal complexity as many other things. There are 83 determinations affected by these determinations. I would say that nobody knows specifically the effect of this decision in every case dealt with under a particular determination. I well recall one of my experiences as a trade union official. I attempted to interpret a provision in an award relating to the accumulation of sick leave, lt was accepted at that time that every award followed the metal trades award which contained a provision of 2 weeks accumulated sick leave as a maximum. In the boot trade industry we were under the impression for some 12 months that that was our entitlement. We so interpreted the award until somebody came in with a specific case, lt happened to fall to my lot to interpret that case. I began reading the award and 1 thought that it did not sound right because the award stated that there was provision for 2 weeks accumulation and I week current, making a total of 3 weeks. Ultimately the employers were contacted by telephone and it was suggested to them that that was the correct interpretation of the award. They said: "Do not be silly, you follow the metal trades and 2 weeks is the maximum'. It is much more than that now, of course; I am going back quite a few years. So we slept on the matter, thought about it and read the award another half dozen times, lt was not intended that the boot irade award should be different but it was. The award provided for 2 weeks accumulation of sick leave and I week of current leave, making a maximum of 3 weeks, although at the time of making the award it was not intended that that should be so. 
I relate that experience to show how easy it is for a determination not to mean what was intended. In the case of this decision we have 83 determinations and already an area of doubt has crept in because the newspapers have reported that an argument is going on between the Public Service Board and the Prime Minister as to precisely what is meant. It has been suggested that we should wait until this argument is resolved. It has been suggested that, we should accept the determinations without knowing really what they mean and while this area of doubt still exists. Il has been suggested that we should let them go through and find out afterwards, ls it not much more simple to accept the proposition that always has been followed in the past? 
I compliment the Prime Minister on his attempts to get this done before the Parliament met, to prepare the papers and get the thing operating, and so on. All right, thai is speedy, and if the Prime Minister wanted to take the chance with speedy action he should have remembered that speed, particularly in the legislative field, often results in careless and incomplete legislation. At least he was trying to carry out the promise that he made during the election campaign. 
That is another argument about which I am not concerned al the moment. The point is whether I accept the Public Service Arbitrator's determinations in this case. That is one thought and the honourable senator can put it forward as a separate entity if he wishes. If I was concerned at the moment about whether public servants should or should not get 4 weeks annual leave, 1 think it would be valid to argue that point; but 1 am not concerned about it now. A particular party made a promise as part of the election campaign and it won the campaign. It may have won many votes as a result of that promise to the people. There may have been arguments either way that could have been put at that time. In the case of these particular determinations, if there is a doubt let us resolve it in the way suggested. 
To deviate for a moment, we could argue that having regard to the economic circumstances that may develop from it, the promise may or may not have been wise, but the Prime Minister made the promise and he is trying to carry it out. We do not know whether this principle will flow to other industries and we do not know whether it will aggravate inflation to the extent that the economy cannot stand it. The granting of an extra week's leave certainly cannot help the Prime Minister to honour his other promise to reduce inflation. If there is a flow on from the Public Service to competitive industry - and well there may be - without a doubt one could argue that there may be much more serious implications for the nation than what is apparent at the moment. However, that is not the question before us. A promise was made during the election campaign and the people voted for the party which made it. The people having voted for it, the Labor Party should grant 4 weeks leave to the Public Service and it should be granted as soon as possible. The Parliament is now meeting and it is possible to extend to all people in the Public Service, by legislation, as has always been the case before, the promise made during the election campaign. 
The Government has received here today the unqualified assurance in this chamber of 2 of the parties opposed to it that they would support legislation to grant 4 weeks leave to public servants. I have no doubt that further assurances will be given. The Government needs only the promises of 2 more senators, together with its own numbers, to give 4 weeks annual leave for everybody in the Public Service. It is merely a matter of preparing the simplest of Bills to change the wording in the present Act from three to four. I cannot see public servants being distressed over getting the extra week's leave by means of an Act of Parliament rather than by a regulation. After all, they got 3 weeks annual leave by an Act of Parliament and that has been the way they obtained their leave provisions on every other occasion. 
The alternative is to go on with this very doubtful piece of material that has been brought down by the Public Service Board. Will the determinations mean what the Board interprets them to mean? Will the decision be impeded in its fullest application by union officials snooping on membership and membership rights? Will union officials be completely honest and play no favours and go to the Public Service Board and nominate every person who was not a member of the union on 1st January? There are 83 determinations involved and perhaps the union officials concerned hold varying points of view. Perhaps some will not inform upon their membership and will say that all the members concerned were members as from 1st January even if some joined on 10th January. Will other union officials rush along and inform on everyone or will some members be informed on not because they have not been members of the union but because they have not toed the line on every particular question in accordance with the wishes of the union? 
May I refer you to some of the many infamous cases? 
]f there is no area of doubt I do not know what your Prime Minister is arguing about with the Public Service Board. Or is it that you do not admit that there is an area of doubt? I heard  Senator Cavanagh's  argument that he did not favour compulsory unionism but that he favoured preference to unionists. I want to remind the honourable senator of cases that have occurred in this country. Some of them made me ashamed to think that I was a unionist. A unionist should not support the type of things that were done to some people in the name of a union. I refer the honourable senator to the Hursey case. The people concerned were not non-unionists; they were members of a union and they refused to pay a political levy. Surely, if you do not believe in compulsory unionism you do not believe in compulsory union political levies. You as a member of the Labor Party, would not like to have to pay a levy to the Communist Party or to the Liberal Party, would you? You would not like to do that would you? The Hurseys were denied the right, not to take annual leave but to earn a livelihood. That was done to them by union officials in the name of unionism. They suffered violence and everything else because, as good unionists, they had the courage to stand up for their rights. 
 I am not concerned about court decisions. I am surprised to learn that  Senator Cavanagh  is such a champion of legality, he who suggests thai he is an independent thinker. 1 condemn the attitude of the government of the day for abandoning the Hurseys in their struggle. They were abandoned by everybody except a few fellowunionists, and I happened to be one of them. I believe that the Hursey case was a blot on trade unionism in this country, lt is something that trade unionism can never be proud of. 
 I have no doubt that they had not heard at that time of  Senator Cavanagh's  interest in the law. Perhaps it was because he had not qualified in it at that stage. Although I have a great respect for his interest in and knowledge of the law. I do nol think that he would be able to qualify for the profession even today. No matter what may bc said about the representation of the Hurseys in the court, case, it was the power of the unions and the fear of the government of the clay to stand up to them al that lime which caused the Hurseys to be abandoned. Bearing in mind incidents of this nature. I do not think that the attitude should be adopted that trade unionism is a holy cow. 1 am  a  member of 2 irade unions and have always been, and stIll am. a strong supporter of trade unionism. I support the principle that anyone who wants benefits should be prepared to pay for them. But how far should that principle be carried? 
That is right. If the Government is game enough to carry the principle to its logical conclusion, it should bring down legislation for pensions and other social service benefits which will be granted only 10 those people who support the Party which brings down the legislation. 
What is the difference in principle? If the Government says that a man who works in a particular industry shall receive benefits only under certain conditions; if an organisation representing pensioners, invalids or blind people were to gain a promise from a political party that it would implement a particular proposal if it were elected to office, why, to carry the matter to its logical conclusion, should it not be that only those who have seen fit to join the organisation which carries out the agitation shall be the beneficiaries of any legislation resulting from that agitation? The principle involved cannot mean anything else if it is carried to its logical conclusion. But the Government is nol prepared to do so. Honourable senators opposite believe that trade unionism is a holy cow which cannot commit no wrong. 
Trade unions are not superior to religious bodies or anything else. They consist of human beings, all of whom carry the same taint and defect of noi being perfect and of being able to commit enormous and terrible blunders and, indeed, to act with great inhumanity towards mankind. I do not believe that trade union officials are competent to be charged with the responsibility with which the Government wants to charge them of being pimps who will tell the Public Service Board about the eligibility of members, by virtue of union membership, to obtain the benefits which the Government,  Senator Greenwood,  my colleagues and I now agree should be made available to those members of the Public Service who, in accordance with the promises made by the Prime Minister, are in that employment. 
We are trying to illustrate that the promises of the Prime Minister can be met in an unarguable, unquestionable and complete way as swiftly as even speedy Gough would like it to be met. That can be done by a simple amendment being made to the Public Service Act. lt could be passed by this Parliament inside 7 days and made retrospective to the same date of application as that of the rather mystical proposition of the Public Service Arbitrator. Nobody has suggested, even by way of interjection, thai he knows how that proposition will be applied to the whole of the 83 determinations, each of which wi;i have to be read carefully and specifically to fit in this proposition. 
Honourable senators opposite seem to have access to information that is not available to the Prime Minister.  I  suggest that honourable senators opposite should make available to the Prime Minister for his edification the information they seem to be prepared to give me by way of interjection but always refrain from giving at the eleventh hour. That is why  I  continue to be as ill-informed on the subject as apparently is the honourable senator. 
It has been said by  Senator Bishop  that the Government will take notice of what is put by the unions and the Australian Council of Trade Unions.  I  believe that a government should always be prepared to listen to and take heed of what is said by unions in relation to industrial affairs, but  I  certainly do not believe that a government should be directed by them.  I  think that is a different proposition altogether. 1 think a government also should recognise the fact that the members of the Senate were elected by the people of Australia, and it should take note of and heed the advice offered by the representatives of the people. We on this side of the chamber are saying to the Government here and 'now in unequivocal terms that there is a simpler and more efficient way of doing what it wants to do and that we consider it our obligation, as representatives of the people of Australia, to assist it in carrying out the introduction of thi- proposition which the Government has promised the people of Australia it will introduce. If there is a better way- 
The Prime Minister made some great statements on electoral reform when he was challenged to do so. We have made a careful note of every one of them. We will see whether the promises made by the Prime Minister with regard to electoral reform are adhered to. But there is no argument on the matter we are now debating. The Government promised 4 weeks annual leave and nothing else. The Government did not promise compulsory-- l he ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poyser)  - Order! There are far too many interjections. 
1 thought 1 was getting a lot of help,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
That may be the case, but  I  had the egotistical opinion that I was not doing too badly. Whatever assistance  I  may require,  I  can do without any assistance from  Senator McLaren.  I hope he will accept the ruling of the Chair and be silent while I continue to make the remaining remarks  I  want to make on this matter.  I  believe that a case has now been put to substantiate my proposition. There is very little else J have to say, except, to offer the suggestion to the Government that as well as listening to the views of the unions and the ACTU it should also listen to the views of the members of this chamber on this subject. J warn the Government that it is unwise to be directed by outside bodies, but that it is wise to listen to the advice that is given to it in this chamber, which is very sensible advice. A degree of confusion has arisen from what has happened in respect to this matter. The Government, should get out of the area of confusion and into the area of certainty where the people know exactly what it is doing, lt should alter the legislation by changing the words '3 weeks' wherever applicable to '4 weeks'. 
The Government should give everybody in industry the advantage of the promise it has made, lt should put to one side introduction of those things that were not contained in the promises made by the Prime Minister during the last election campaign. If it were to do so, it would receive the support, of the whole of the Senate.  I  have no doubt that the Government would be able to get its proposition on leave through the other chamber because of the change that has occurred since the election. But, because an area of doubt has arisen in respect to this matter and because an ordinance has to be passed by the Senate, the Government should accept the advice that is being given to it today. That advice is at least, as sound as any advice the Government will gel from the trade unions or the ACTU. It is the advice of people who have been genuinely charged with the responsibility of helping to govern this country and of criticising those things which it is thought the Government is doing wrong. We think that by adding a qualification to a clear promise that was made by the Prime Minister, the Government is exceeding the mandate given to it by the people. We are keeping a check on the Government in its owninterests and in the interests of those people it has promised to help. For that reason alone we extend to it the advice that I have extended to it during the course of my remarks. I indicate that we intend to vote for the motion which expresses disapproval of the determinations. At the tame time I indicate that if the Government does not introduce legislation to amend the Act - the Government has a privilege to introduce legislation - we will introduce a private member's Bill within 24 hours. It will grant 4 weeks annual leave to public servants, which is the main thing that the Government wants to do in this field. 
asked the Minister repre senting the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the present employment of  Mr Richard  Hail, who the Prime Minister announced on 16th February 1973 had been appointed to the Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts. 
Is  Mr Hall's  full-time profession that of a playwright, as reported in the press, or does he have other employment; if so, what is the nature of such other employment and by whom is he employed. 

 Senator MURPHY - The Prime Minister has supplied the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 

 Mr Richard Hall is at present employed on the personal stall of  Mr Bryant,  Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, to whom he is acting as consultant on the affairs of urban Aborigines in Sydney and country towns in New South Wales. 
The position referred to in (1) above is  Mr Hall's  present full-time occupation. He has in the past been employed as adviser to the Prime Minister and as a journalist. He is a graduate of the National Institute of Dramatic Art playwright studio. Several of his plays have been publicly performed. 
Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate aware that Ministers of the new Government have discontinued the courtesy of distributing' to the Press Gallery copies of answers to questions on notice? As the practice of incorporating in Hansard many of these answers to questions prevents the Press Gallery from taking down the answers, does the Leader of the Government propose to persist with the new practice or will he advise Ministers to have sufficient copies of answers prepared to allow for distribution to the Press? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government oppose or support any claims by Communist China for the former Embassy of Taiwan's property in Australia which was referred to in Press Statement D/64. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Government has taken no position on the question of ownership of property in the name of the former 'Republic of China' Embassy or Consulates at the time Australia recognised the People's Republic of China.In the Government's view, that question is strictly a legal matter which it is for the Australian courts to decide should the matter be brought before them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Government propose to appoint  Mr Bruce  Grant as Australia's representative in India. 
Is  Mr Grant  a journalist with the Melbourne Age. 
Was he the prime mover behind  a  letter from 16 prominent persons published on 23rd November 1972, just before the Federal election, calling for  a  change of Government. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The appointment of an Australian representative in a foreign country is the subject of government to government consultation before any public announcement is made. Comment on any speculation about the identity of the person who might be appointed would be contrary to diplomatic practice. 
Yes. 
I have no information on this matter. 
As the Attorney-General has called for union assistance in a war against crime, can he inform the Senate of the role to be played by the Federated Ship Painters and Dockers Union of Australia? Does he consider that legal immunity for union officials has a major role in the campaign? Does the Attorney-General's call to the public to help the police mean the end of Labor's campaign on brutality charges against the police which was begun during the Springboks' tour? 
The senators of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, like all the other speakers in this debate, support the Bill before the Senate. Tt is the result of the recent election campaign and embodies some new philosophies in the field of social services. I must commend them because, after all, they are veering towards the policy that has been enunciated here by the Democratic Labor Party almost monotonously Budget after Budget for the last 10 years. They are veering towards the idea of an independent tribunal setting the pension rates and leaving it to Parliament to find the money for them. However, this measure does not complete the cycle because it is not an independent tribunal which is to fix the rate. The rate has been plucked out of the air by a political party in the course of an election campaign in which promises were made to the people. But at least it is breaking away from the traditional approach that the rales of pension are fixed not on the basis of the affluence of our society but on the basis of statistical figures in budgetary programs which cannot foresee what the income of the total community is likely to be or the requirements of the years ahead. 
We have always argued that an independent tribunal such as those that fix wages and other things in this country is far better able to consider scientifically all the facts than is Parliament itself where the main impetus is of a political character. We still hold that view. I agree with some of the suggestions that  Senator Webster  made. He referred to a figure fixed as 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. Perhaps he erred when he suggested that the whole of income was involved as the figure fixed is 25 per cent of the average weekly earnings. Of course, there must always be grave faults in the figures as they are at present calculated because there is really no valid reason for collating the necessary statistics to give a completely accurate figure. Taken over the whole of Australia they seem to represent a good approximation of what the actual figures would be likely to be and for that reason. I suppose, as an objective they are better than nothing at all. 
I repeat that this legislation represents a step towards the DLP ideal of pension rates being fixed scientifically on the basis of society's capacity to earn, to pay and to maintain not a weekly cash income for pensioners but an ability to live in comparison with the standards of the rest of the community enjoyed at a particular time. Money can be a very unreliable measuring stick of a person's capacity to live to a specific standard. Even the barometers that allegedly express a standard of poverty as compiled by universities do not take into account a great deal of the most extreme poverty in the community brought about by self-inflicted wounds. Before backbench senators opposite hasten to interject that I have the idea that every person is a loafer or something like that, I remind them that humanity is made up of people. People all have a great number of weaknesses. We all know that if children are pandered to excessively weaknesses rather than strength of character may develop. We also know that we have in the community a difficult problem that is shared by countries throughout the world. I refer to alcoholism. Gambling is another unfortunate problem. Some people live below the poverty level because of weaknesses in over-indulging in such practices. I am not referring to the majority in the community. They are a very small minority but they constitute many of the group who are living below poverty standards. To increase their monetary income may in no way at all increase their standard of living. It may only be doing the bookmakers or hotel keepers a good turn. That is a fact of life. 
It is also a fact of life that social service needs cannot be gauged entirely by trying to prevent those people from indulging in their particular weaknesses. That would also give a distorted picture. But it is a foolish person who does not try to consider all these aspects of life when trying to deal with problems in the best interests of the people as a whole. I sound that word of warning to the Government. It may race too rapidly into some proposition without duc thought and thus aggravate some of the evils in the community. 
I join with  Senator Webster  in offering a word of warning about payment of the employment benefit of $21.50 a week to 16 and 17-year-olds. In some cases such payments would be essential. I have in mind young people who have no families to help them and to encourage them to keep employment. In such cases $21.50 a week may be inadequate, but there are not many young people in our community in that extreme position. The great majority of them have parents who will help them and who realise that for young people the big world of employment outside can sometimes be frightening. lt was frightening for our generation when we entered it at 13 or 14 years of age. It was a little like learning to swim but not learning to dive at an early age. In your lateteens or early twenties the tendency is that if you have never dived into a swimming pool you may never learn to dive at all. 
So it is for young people seeking employment. It is a big decision and they have to grasp the nettle and front up to it. The spurs of necessity can often cause young people to grasp the nettle, front up to the problem and do something about it. Over indulgence saps away the will until it becomes a habit of living. It happens not only to the children of workers, the children of rich people, intelligent children or unintelligent children. Sometimes young people of the highest intelligence are more susceptible because their natures are sensitive to these sorts of pressures. People who have studied child delinquency and related problems will confirm that I am stating the facts of life and not just products of my imagination. I want the Government to think seriously for a moment of the difference it now creates. 

 Senator Brown, who has now left the chamber although he criticised  Senator Webster  for doing so, tried to present a case that this amendment would give complete equality to the beneficiaries under the Social Services Act. The only time I interjected while he was speaking was to ask how he justified the inequality between the married person and the unmarried person. I would have thought that if we were to give them complete equality each person should stand alone and the fact of his being married or single should be completely irrelevant to the amount of pension he is paid. This is the case that the Democratic Labor Party has presented lo the Senate in every budget session since I came here. I have presented this case on those occasions. I can see no reason to discriminate in our social services legislation between married and unmarried people on the basis of the old adage that 2 can live more cheaply than one. At what standard can 2 live more cheaply than one? If one of the married couple happens to be subject to illness - and this is a common problem with the aged - the expense, which can be quite high, is shared by the two. Yet they are supposed to live more cheaply than one. The more there are in a team, whether there are 2, 3, 4 or 5, the more certain it is that one will be afflicted with a constantly recurring illness. 
This burden is reduced when a person is living alone because he is assured of a higher income as long as we perpetuate the old fashioned idea, which was adopted when pensions were introduced, that 2 can live more cheaply than one. At what standard can they do that? The fact that they need to share enjoyments, to pander to one another to make the marriage work or to be entertained in different ways very often adds to their expenses. Surely we do not say that because they are pensioners there should be no joy in life for them any more. So, in the Government's enthusiasm to wipe out all the old inequalities it is perpetuating another. I am not being harshly critical. I am merely advising. 1 compliment the Labor Party for, providing that the increase granted to a married couple is double that granted to a single person. In this respect the Government has not aggravated the discrepancy which already exists. But it has done nothing to retrieve the situation and strive for the equality which it says is part of its philosophy on social services. 
That same viewpoint on equality can be extended to 16 and 17-year-olds who will be eligible for assistance provided they are not student children of unemployed or sick beneficiaries under the Act. If they are merely unemployed, those 16 and 17-year-olds will get §21.50 a week. A university student on a scholarship and receiving a living allowance would receive, according to the 1971 figures which are the latest I have been able to obtain, something like $13 a week, lt is hardly encouraging to our younger people to stay at universities on a living allowance of $13 a week, with the increased expenditure which life at a university entails unless they are also receiving assistance from their parents, when a person who is not working at all is getting $21.50 a week. 1 have no doubt that the living allowance for those on scholarships has been increased since 1971, but I do not think it would have reached $21.50 a week. I quote as my authority the annual report of the Commonwealth Scholarships Board, which says that the living allowance per scholar, deleting all the students not receiving a living allowance - and most of them are not - is $701.87 a year. That was for the year 1971. The living allowance per scholar was $292.43, but apparently that is arrived at by spreading the total amount of living allowance over all those receiving scholarships as distinct from those who are paid a living allowance. 
I draw attention to the discrepancy between what a young person who is unemployed will receive under the Social Services Act, that is, $21.50, and what a student will receive. After all, they both eat the same things. I do not know that a student eats more or less than a young person who is unemployed. I imagine that their intake of food and their requirements for clothing and shelter would be similar. Some young unemployed people of 16 or 17 years of age would still be having their accommodation and most of their clothing provided free of charge by mum and dad, just as some students do. These comparisons show an unhealthy tendency to encourage in our community less desirable features and 1 do not think that any of us want to do that to our young people, lt is not even a majority of our young people but only a very small minority which can be corrupted by such a thing, but are they not the ones we should be thinking about mostly? We all like to think that our own family circle is immune from these pressures and that those in it would not be corrupted by anything at all. But the percentage of people who are corrupted by it today may grow and it may become very fashionable to change one's way of life in much the same way as there are changes in fashions for clothes and fashions for living, for example, being a surfie. Once we find an easier way to live it is human nature to pursue it unless there is pressure from something else that we desire. 
We see surfies give away sleeping on the beach when they meet a nice girl; they start to think of matrimony, begin to grow up and accept the responsibilities of life. They give away being surfies and living on unemployment relief, very often for a large part of the year, in favour of a steady job. That occurred at 14 or 15 years of age in our generation and it can occur at 16 or 17 years of age in the present generation. The incentive to settle down may not present itself to an individual until he is well into his twenties. Of course, if it does not, that way of life becomes a habit and one lacks ambition for the whole of one's days. Anybody who lived through the 1930s for different reasons had plenty of compulsion to receive no income because very often his parents were out of work also and could not help him. In those days young people, finding it hopeless to seek employment and because of disappointment day after day and week after week, ceased to look for employment. It happened to me - I was a young person in the 1930s - and it happened to countless hundreds of young people with whom I mingled. Many of us, because of the hopelessness of seeking employment, went through phases of failing even to look for employment. I am certain that, for the completely different reason that it is just too easy to live without employment, we can create a similar philosophy if the current trend is carried too far and we provide for the unemployed 17-year-old a standard of living that is far above that provided for the hard-working university student or the student child of a person in receipt of the unemployment benefit. What is the allowance paid to such a parent to keep his student child of 16 or 17 years of age, in comparison with that paid to a person of 16 or 17 years of age who, not being a student, declares himself unemployed? Is it proposed to say to the invalid pensioner or to the parent receiving unemployment or sickness benefits that he will receive $21.50 for each student child? Of course it is not. I am not suggesting that it is possible or that the economy would stand it, or that it would be a good idea. 
The figure of $21.50 because that is what it is proposed to give to the unemployed person of 16 or 17 years of age. We know that it is a matter of statistics but we must remember that the Government is dealing with human beings. Too great a discrepancy in the availability of this sort of relief will not do what the Government is setting out to do and could create greater problems than the problem it is trying to solve. There are a few young people in our community of that age who are unemployed and who could suffer enormous hardship; but the great majority of them in a community as affluent as ours have people who can help them. They can help them in a better way than the State can help them. Such people can help them wisely in individual ways, knowing their full requirements. 
Heaven knows that most of us here, in the Senate have gone through that phase of life in which it has been our joy to help our children, whether they have been unemployed or have been students. As one who has reared a medical student I can say that a lot of relief is going to such parents now. Medicine is such a long course you find that you have on your hands a young man of 24 summers who has no income because according to a means test the income of his parents is said to be sufficient to deprive him of a living allowance or anything that his scholarship may have earned for him. You find that you have to fork out to keep a young man in that situation at the standard to which you would like to see your son of 22, 23 or 24 years able to live. Perhaps you are not only keeping him in the bare essentials of food, clothing and shelter. After all, it is perfectly reasonable for a young man in his twenties to take his girl out and so on, and that comes back on to the parents. I do not think that any parents complain about it because they want to achieve one of the rewards in life - that of knowing that they are in a situation to help. 
I instance these cases to show that before going too far we should consider the whole broad spectrum. The requirements of individuals vary so enormously that we can create a problem greater than the problem we are setting out to alleviate. This excellent Bill fulfils an election promise but the Government has shown some restraint. My view is that the Government is going about as far as it is discreet to go in one bite. It is true that economies, whatever economists may say about them, given sufficient time adapt themselves to almost anything providing the shock is not too sudden and is not beyond the digestibility of the economy to sustain in one bite. I believe that the Government is showing some wisdom in not trying to achieve its whole objective in one blow. If it did so it may destroy whatever benefits it achieves. It may overreach itself and add to the problems it is trying to overcome. 
I come to what 1 think should be a major warning to the Government in the area of social services. I. would like to see an Australia that is completely free of the influences of other things and of other nations when trying to assess the standard of living that we can achieve for our people. But whilst I would like that, 1 have to face the facts of life and consider the sort of world in which we live. We live in this world and we will have to live alongside other countries in the future. We are part of Asia and many of the things that we regard as everyday rights are not yet part of even the wildest dreams of the people with whom we shall have to live and trade, for their benefit as well as our own. I have learnt a little of economics and have led a varied life. I am getting to the stage where I can look further back in my life than I would like. I wonder whether we can do all we would like to do in our country without seriously disrupting our own way of life and the way of life of people around us if we try to do it too quickly. We should not endeavour to achieve too quickly this aim in our social services field of 25 per cent of the average weekly income. We should be sensible and reasonable. We should not call the boss a mongrel just because he is the boss. He is only another Australian like the rest of us. We should not regard a trade unionist or a trade union official as being somewhat akin to God, because of the position he holds, and therefore capable of no wrong or mean attitude whatsoever. We should forget all that sort of thing. We should recognise when setting out to achieve a quarter of the average weekly earning as the income for those on social services that the first principle is that as earnings increase, the take-home money, so too should social services. They should increase by one-quarter of the increase in earnings. Of course, the bigger the difference, the less effective the amount equivalent to one-quarter of it becomes to maintain the standard of living. 
There are other facets that cause increases in prices and costs. True it is that increased productivity can mean more leisure, shorter hours, longer leave, long service leave and payment in lieu thereof, increased sick leave and perhaps even more public holidays. I mention all the benefits that might pertain in this country but - and I have studied these things to some extent - few of them pertain in the countries with whom we will be trading in the next quarter of a century. Those things are not likely to spread very rapidly in those countries although there is a movement in some of the more progressive countries towards the type of benefits which  we  have. Every time we decrease working hours, increase leisure time and increase annual leave we will be adding to the cost structure a percentage of the cost of those things, although not all of it because increased productivity may cope with some. The percentage that will be added to the cost structure will have to be met also by social service recipients. They will have to pay also but this cost will not register in increased average weekly earnings, because they are affected only by the take-home pay. There are some things in the economy which are uncontrollable when we think in terms of lifting the standard to a better level and maintaining it. 
If the Government does not pay regard to the things I mention it could find that what it is setting out to achieve now may be stolen. The Government should pay honourable senators sitting in this corner the compliment of recognising that we do not want to see that happen. We want to alert the Government to the dangers. We consider that that is our function in this Parliament and we do that tonight with the best of goodwill. We ask the Government to accept the reasoning that we outline in regard to these problems in the spirit in which it is extended. This may increase the possibility of successful ventures in this area. I think everybody in the Senate wants to see an improvement in the living standards of the people concerned. If those standards have not slipped behind, it is true that they have not maintained the same progress as those of us who are in a position to earn an income have maintained in the last quarter of a century. Although pension amounts have increased enormously, honourable senators have heard me deplore in this place before the attitude adopted at times by the previous Government when giving something to pensioners. I refer to occasions on which comparison was made between what was given now and what was given by a previous government or with what was given when pensions were first introduced by one Party or the other. Those things are irrelevant and have nothing to do with this matter. Each day stands alone on these questions. The problems of today are not related to the problems of the 1930s and the problems of the 1930s were not related in any way to the booms and busts that followed the 1914-18 war or the land booms that preceded that. No government has approached this problem with the idea of inflicting hardship or injustice upon anybody. Each government is trying to do what it can see its way clear to do in accordance with the thinking of the time. There is no more classic example than the time when the economy of Great Britain, to which country most of us owe our forebears, was based to a large extent on child labour. 
Those who have been students of the economic circumstances and labour conditions of that era will know that it was not due so much to the inhumanity of the employers that that system persisted for so long. Indeed some wealthy employers led the fight to get children out of the coal mines and spinning mills of Great Britain, but they were resisted greatly by many of the parents of the children, who could not see how their families could survive without the incomes they had been used to receiving from the labours of the child members of their families. At that time children of 6 and 7 years of age worked in the mines. That was in a day and age when industrialisation was relatively new. It was an evil that crept in which was dealt with over the years, although perhaps not as quickly as it should have been. People in different strata of society played a part in the alleviation of that problem. It was alleviated and finally overcome by the good sense and good will of everyone rather than by any sanctimonious cry that one section of the community was completely wrong and another completely right. Anybody who doubts what I have said should read the British Hansards of the time when the first child labour Bills were brought before the British Parliament and see what the different mem bers of Parliament had to say. Petitions were presented on behalf of parents of children who were working in mines and spinning mills urging the Parliament not to legislate against their standard of life, which they could not see being maintained if child labour were abolished from the mines and spinning mills. 
Let us approach the amending legislation that is before us by generously conceding to the Government that it is trying to do something, by criticising it where we feel it is necessary to do so and by sounding those warnings and proving, by relating the facts to the economic circumstances of this day and age, that there are dangers in this country's believing that it can outstrip by far countries in its immediate vicinity insofar as wages and conditions of employment are concerned, particularly where leave is involved. These cost factors have to be taken into consideration. Most of the labour saving devices that can improve productivity that are known and available to us are also known and available to our trading partners and competitors in Asia. Those countries in which they are not already available are rapidly becoming acquainted with them and they are becoming available to them. I have in mind the efficiency of some of the enormous export complexes that have been and are being built in Singapore, Taiwan and Malaysia. Those countries have realised that they have the advantage of cheaper labour than we have. They are building these complexes right on the waterfront and there is no recourse to unnecessary transport. The raw materials are brought in by ships and unloaded directly into factories. Hundreds of government built factories are being rented in some cases to some of the largest international combines. In those factories the raw materials are manufactured into all the commodities that are required for modern living. The manufactures are then loaded back on to the ships and exported. 
Most of the exporting in this country to this point of time has been done as a sideline to other forms of production. We even bring into Sydney those raw materials that it is necessary to bring in from abroad and then put them on a truck and take them to a train for carriage to Melbourne, where they are, manufactured into something, and then we have a reversal of the process. After doing this we try to send them abroad at a competitive price. We should recognise that we are caught in the trap of having established industries. Many of the emerging nations do not have them. Therefore they can afford to start where we have finished. We have to look to the competition they will provide. 
I well remember discussing in Japan with one of the leading electronic producers in the world - J will not give him a free advertisement - the question of annual leave. He could not understand what I meant. I explained the situation to him. He said: 'We have that for our chosen employees. We send the very good ones to Hong Kong for a fortnight on a paid holiday'. I asked him what the employees who were not so good received. He said that they did not get anything at all. That is an enormous incentive for productivity, is it not? We may not approve of it. 1 am not suggesting that such a system should apply in Australia. So honourable senators should not attack me on that point. 1 am just telling a fact of life. Annual leave is an enormous productivity producer in Japan. We have a different system in Australia at the moment. We provide 3 weeks annual leave to everybody. Even the most redundant employee in a plant gets 3 weeks annual leave. That is our approach to this issue, and I would not want to change it. I am not advocating that we alter our approach. I am merely pointing out that other countries have a different approach. 
 Yes. In some Japanese factories there is a great deal of paternalism, even under these circumstances. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)  - Order! Would you please get back to the substance of the Bill,  Senator Little. 
Yes,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I was discussing the ability of the economy to pay for the social service benefits that will be provided by this legislation and the effect on their purchasing power of certain things. I was warning the Government that it is not just a matter of Australia doing what it thinks it can do on its own. Australia cannot live in a world of its own. It has to have trading partners, lt also has to take into consideration the different conditions that apply throughout the world. Australia has to formulate an economy capable of paying for these sorts of things and sustaining these sorts of conditions. In the conversation that I had with the head of the Japanese electronics firm to which I have referred, I drew a comparison between the conditions applying in Australia of 3 weeks annual leave, sick leave, public holidays and long service leave and what is provided in Japan, which has the highest standard of living of all Asian countries. He said to me: 'I give up. 1 should not be an employer. I should be an employee. They live better than I do'. 1 doubt the validity of his statement. I have no doubt he meant in terms of annual leave. I say that, because I have found that Japanese businessmen generally work longer hours and drive themselves a lot harder than most, but not all, of our businessmen. Many of the people who run small businesses in Australia probably work for longer hours than those stipulated in many industrial enactments. 
These are all factors to be taken into consideration when determining what social service benefits should be paid. We of the Democratic Labor Party believe that if there have been mistakes made in this Bill it has been because nothing has been done to narrow the discrepancy between the benefit paid to a married couple and the benefit paid to 2 unmarried people who live together. Two unmarried people who irrespective of whether they are of the same sex or opposite sexes, live together, receive $5.50 more than a married couple who have lived together most of their life and who have probably, because of their married state, provided more in a general sense to the prosperity of this nation than the others. There should not be a discrepancy between the incomes of persons who have reached the age which is set down in the Act on the basis of whether they are married or single. The Australian Democratic Labor Party has always held that philosophy. I have pointed out what we think is one of the discrepancies in this Bill, but we compliment the Government because it has not aggravated that situation. This legislation was promised to the Australian people. We are glad that the Government has carried out its promise as rapidly as it has. The payments are to be made retrospectively. We assure the Government that nothing that will be done by this Party will stop this Bill passing through this Parliament so that the benefits can be made available to the pensioners, the sick, the invalids and the unemployed in the community as quickly as possible. We support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Does the Joint Communique establishing diplomatic relations between the Australian Government and Communist China contain the following reference to Taiwan: 'The Australian Government recognises the Government of the People's Republic  as  the sole legal Government of China, acknowledges the position of the Chinese Government that Taiwan is a province of the People's Republic of China and has decided to remove its official representation from Taiwan before 25th January 1973.' 
What were the references to Taiwan contained in the similar Joint Communiques establishing diplomatic relations between Communist China and Canada and Communist China and those non-Communist countries with which it established diplomatic relations in 1972. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The passage quoted from the Joint Communique is correct except that the words 'of China' should be inserted after the words 'People's Republic' where they first occur. 
The information requested is as follows: Canada (Joint Communique of 13th October 1970) 
The Chinese Government reaffirms that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the territory of the People's Republic of China. The Canadian Government takes note of this position of the Chinese Government.' Malta (31st January 1972) 
The Chinese Government reaffirms that Taiwan province is an inalienable part of the territory of the People's Republic of China. The Government of Malta takes note of this statement of the Chinese Government. 
Argentina (16th February 1972) 
Greece (5th June 1972) 
The references are in the same terms as those used in the Sino-Canadian communique. 
Mexico (14th February 1972), Mauritius (15th April 1972), Guyana (27th June 1972), Togo (19th September 1972), Germany (Federal Republic of) (1 1th October 1972), Malagasy (6 November 1972), Luxembourg (13th November 1972), Zaire (19th November 1972), Jamaica (21st November 1972), Chad (28th November 1972). 
No reference. (None of these countries, excepting Zaire, had diplomatic missions in Taipei at the time of signing of their joint communiques with China.) Japan (29 September 1972) 
The Government of the People's Republic of China reaffirms that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the territory of the People's Republic of China. The Government of Japan fully understands and respects this stand of the Government of China and adheres to its stand of complying with Article 8 of the Potsdam Proclamation.' 
Maldives (14th October 1972) 
The Government of the Republic of Maldives recognises that the Government of the People's Republic of China is the sole legal Government of China and that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the territory of the People's Republic of China.' New Zealand (21st December 1972) 
The Chinese Government reaffirms that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the Territory of the People's Republic of China and that Taiwan is a province of the People's Republic of China. The New Zealand Government acknowledges this position of the Chinese Government.' 
Also during 1972 the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, which were already in diplomatic relations with China, negotiated joint communiques on the exchange of Ambassadors with China. The references to Taiwan in these communiques were as follows: 
United Kingdom (Joint Communique of 13th March 1972) 
The Government of the United Kingdom,  acknowledging  the position of the Chinese Government  that  Taiwan is a province of the People's Republic  of  China, have decided to remove their official representation in Taiwan on 13th March 1972.' 
The Netherlands (16th May 1972) 
The Chinese Government reaffirms that Taiwan  is  a province of the People's Republic of China. The Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands respects this stand of the Chinese Government and reaffirms that it recognises the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal Government of China.' 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the date of signing of the  Joint  Communique establishing diplomatic relations between Australia and (a) East Germany; and (b) Communist China. 
What was the date of release of the Press Statements by the Government announcing each of these Joint Communiques. 

 Senator WILLESEE- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
(a) The Joint Communique was agreed but  not  actually signed by Australia and the German Democratic Republic. The date on which the joint communique was issued giving effect to the decision  to  establish diplomatic relations was 22nd December 1972. 
The joint communique establishing diplomatic relations between Australia and the People's Republic of China was signed in Paris at 7 a.m. on 22nd December 1972, Canberra time (9 a.m. on 21st December, Paris time.) 
22nd December 1972. 
It seems strange to me to hear such conflicting statements from the Government in resisting the motion that we are discussing to set up a committee for the purposes outlined. It is very strange when the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  suggests that this is a terrible thing to do because the members of the Senate have not had time to consider the proposal. Then, he was followed by his colleague,  Senator Brown,  who said that the committee would be an inquisition. 
There you are. He says: Of course it would.' He has had sufficient time to consider the matter. He has even come to a judgment. So when his leader said that the Government had not had sufficient time to consider this, he should have excluded  Senator Brown  because he has had all the time in the world. He has already come to a conclusion. 
Of course.  Senator Douglas  McClelland's objection was that the committee would be loaded.  Senator Gair  is suggesting the setting up of a 7-man committee of which one member only of his own Party will be a member. But it is suggested that somehow or other that member will dominate the Committee. I know that the DLP has won a lot of respect in politics, but even I did not think that we were that good. Even I did not think that we were so good that just one DLP senator on a committee of 7 would dominate the whole show and turn the proper inquiry that Senate select committees have always been into some sort of inquisition as  Senator Brown,  quite contrary to the facts, suggests might be the case. 
Of course,  Senator Douglas  McClelland raised the fact that this  Mr Burchett  was in Australia some 18 months or 2 years ago. That is right. He was in this country illegally. He did not even have a passport. At that time he was the very person about whom  Senator Douglas  McClelland was complaining. Virtually, he was not a citizen of this country. Yet, it is  Senator Douglas  McClelland who objects to the fact that  Senator Gair  asked a question about some person from Switzerland who apparently has some sort of a record in the opinion of somebody who had written a book about the matter. What has been written is there for anybody to take legal action against or do anything he wants to do about it. Yet  Senator Douglas  McClelland said that this was a terrible thing to do to a person from another country. But the facts are different in regard to  Mr Burchett  now. One of the first acts of this Government was to give a passport to this person who has raised a great deal of controversy and doubt in the minds of the Australian people, because of the things that he himself has said. He has said that he would welcome an inquiry. This inquiry may well clear the name of  Mr Burchett  of the things that a great number of the returned servicemen of this country who have served abroad have come back and said about him. It should be the concern of the ALP that if these returned servicemen who have fought for this country alongside, their colleagues have been misinformed or if there is a case of misidentification and  Mr Burchett  was not the person who did the things that the returned servicemen said he has done, this unprecedented opportunity should be given to this person who has now regained his Australian passport and whom the ALP must hope will again become a respected citizen of this country. At least this proposition will not be decided as quickly as the decision was made to give  Mr Burchett  a passport. That decision and announcement were made almost at the same time that members of the present Government knew they were a government. 
They did not consider the position or ask the opinions of returned servicemen who may or may not have been interrogated in foreign prisoner of war camps by  Mr Burchett.  All we want to know is: Are these allegations true or false? That is the whole purpose of setting up the committee. To suggest that a committee that will have representation from 4 political parties and on which the Democratic Labor Party will have only one representative to express the view that may be held by this Party will be in some way stacked against  Mr Burchett  is completely ridiculous and honourable senators opposite know it. We do not need more time to consider the motion. It does not involve reaching a decision on any matter other than the calling of a proper inquiry with the right to call witnesses and with the right of the person himself to have his say and also to call witnesses. 
Sitting suspended from 5.45 to 8 p.m. 
Government Business, Notices of Motion Nos 1 to 4 taking precedence of all other business. 
At the suspension of the Senate for dinner I had almost concluded my remarks. At this point of time I merely want to remind honourable senators who have objected, in violent terms, to the idea of this committee that it has always been the practice of the Senate in setting up committees to have representation along the lines suggested for this committee. I remember  Senator Murphy  coming into this chamber in great haste with a proposition to set up the very important Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange. The proposition was agreed to by the Senate and nobody cast aspersions that somebody may be trying to dominate somebody else. To make charges that a committee, such as that which has been suggested by  Senator Gair,  would in any way act unfairly at all or act as an inquisition of course does not demean the Australian Democratic Labor Party; all it does is demean the Senate itself. 
If anyone is hurt personally at all it will be the members of the Australian Labor Party who are selected by their own party to represent it on the committee. After all, if on the committee, 3 members of the Labor Party, think that they cannot equal in discussion and debate one member of the Democratic Labor Party, the members of the Labor Party have a remarkable lack of confidence in themselves. To suggest that the appointment of a member of the Democratic Labor Party to the committee will cause the committee in some way to operate unfairly or to the detriment of the views of the Labor Party merely reflects on the capacity of the members of the Labor Party on the committee to put their own point of view. 
If some members of the Labor Party hold that view about their own members, let me here and now say that I do not share it. I have worked on  committees,  which have dealt with many topics, with members of all parties in the Senate, and I have found that the motivating force of the committees has always been the desire to ascertain what is in the best interests of Australia, to elicit the facts which the committees have been instructed by the Senate to seek on behalf of the Senate, and to report back to the Senate. I believe that there is a need for the commit tee which has been suggested by  Senator Gair.  I also believe that the Senate is wise in considering this motion now. I hope that when the proposition for the setting up of this committee is put it will be carried unanimously by the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Australian High Commissioner to London, the  Hon.  J. Armstrong, a director of the Australian Equitable Insurance Co. Ltd. 
Did the Government give approval for this Australian-owned company to be taken over by the British-controlled Hill Samuel group. 

 Senator WILLESEE - The Treasurer has provided the following answers to the honourable senator's question: 
The Annual Report and Accounts of Australian Equitable Insurance Company Ltd for the year ended 30th June 1972 lists the  Hon.  J. I. Armstrong as one of the directors of the company. It is not known whether he is still a director. 
In December 1972, the Government received notification under the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act 1972 of a takeover offer for Australian Equitable Insurance Company Ltd by a subsidiary of the U.K. -controlled Hill Samuel group. Examination of the proposal was undertaken in accordance with established procedures. The Government subsequently decided that the proposed takeover would not be contrary to the national interest and the parties concerned were advised that there would be no objection to it. 
I wish to  raise a point that crossed my mind during the course of  Senator McLaren's  contribution to the debate on the motion for the second reading of this Bill. It relates to the fact that a voluntary enrolment system applies in some States to people under the age of 21 years. That is a proposition which the Australian Democratic Labor Party had in mind. We think it is a rather sensible one because all 18-year-olds do not share the same maturity and some may not want to be enrolled. My query is: What would be the Commonwealth Government's attitude towards the administration of this legislation, which provides for compulsory enrolment, in those States where on a State basis the enrolment is voluntary? There could be some confusion among the young people, especially if they do not realise that on a Federal basis enrolment is compulsory and they are likely to be fined if their names are not placed on the electoral roll. I would like the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  to give the Senate some indication of what will be the Government's policy in regard to the administration of this legislation in so far as it affects those young people. 
There are some circumstances in the Northern Territory in respect of Aborigines which put this Bill  in  a slightly different category. I should like the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  to explain whether  the  exemptions which apply now in the Northern Territory to the Aboriginal population and the provision for voluntary enrolment will apply also to people in the 18 to 21 -year-old group. 
'My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. In view of the Attorney's statement that terrorist activities will be stamped out in future will he assure the Senate that the Commonwealth will assist State police and protect international sporting identities, such as rugby players and young women tennis players, from terrorist activities such as occurred after demonstrations which were inspired and led in the last 2 years by some Labor members of Parliament? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. I refer to his many answers that he discovered something in the Canberra files of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation that caused him to take a force of 30 police officers to Melbourne to seal the safes and files, and to his answer to  Senator Durack  that no attempt was made to contact Melbourne by telephone  and  order that the files be safeguarded. Does all this mean that the information revealed in Canberra indicated a complete lack of confidence in the loyalty of leading officers or of an officer of ASIO in Melbourne? If not, what does it mean? 
Can the Minister assisting the Prime Minister inform the Senate whether security agents of Yugoslavia were sent to Australia in advance of the visit of the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia? Did any agents accompany the Yugoslav Prime Minister when he came? What, if any, were the total numbers of security men from Yugoslavia here during the visit? Were any restrictions placed on their movements by Australian security forces during the period that any agents may have been here? 

 - Mr President, in the light of the concluding, remarks of  Senator Poyser,  I want to assure you that as far as I am concerned, this is no attack upon you at all. There is the proposition that question time should be limited by a particular device, and practice has been quoted in support of that proposition. There is also the proposition that we should not limit question time. The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the proposition which has been put by  Senator Withers.  In the last Parliament we had the spectacle quite often of Ministers being singled out and asked to bear a very heavy burden of questions, as  Senator Withers  has pointed out, not only for one day but day after day. The questions certainly did not have the relevance or the importance to this nation of the matter that has engaged the attention of the Senate for the past week. 
I refer to the occasion when the then Minister for Customs and Excise,  Senator Scott,  was merciful to an employee in his Department who had sought mercy and in respect of whom supporters of the present Government, had they been trade union officials representing the men, would have asked the Minister to do precisely what he did. I heard  Senator Scott  suffer a barrage of questions day after day for nearly a month. I do not know that that was in the interests of the nation, ft was more a personal vendetta over an act of charity that had been extended by the Minister, and 1 do not think it added to the dignity or prestige of the Senate. 
The situation that has brought about the question that we are discussing tonight, however, is entirely different.  Senator Poyser  spent quite some time in pointing this out, although T thought he approached it from the wrong angle. He suggested that some of the questions that have been asked were out of order because we have  had  placed before us a paper which purports to deal with the question of Croatian terrorism. But for several days the nation was perturbed because there had been a raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, lt is yet to be decided whether this had anything to do with Croatian terrorism, if such a thing exists in this country. 1 have an authority to quote in this regard. The paper that was placed on the table of the Senate alleging great acts of Croatian terrorism was in itself denied by some of the evidence that was produced by the Minister  who  placed the paper on the table, in documents which were seized from ASIO and which were marked secret', but whose secrecy was lifted by the Minister himself, other acts of Croatian terrorism are alleged by ASIO. For instance there is a very strong allegation and belief expressed by ASIO in a document headed 'Document A 1.1', that the Yugoslav Government is engaging in murderous activities against Croat emigres in various parts  of  the world. Surely the fact that the Minister, after a raid on ASIO, presents a paper purporting to discuss Croatian terrorism, which is what  Senator Murphy  has sifted from the papers that he himself seized, does not deny us the right to ask questions about terrorism being practised in  other  countries by the Yugoslav Government itself. I quote from page 2 of this document A 13 which is marked 'Secret' but which now has been declared not to be secret. It states: 
However, on 20th April, 1969, the founder of  HNO  General  Maks Lubric  was murdered ai his villa in  Carcagente,  Spain. It was widely believed at the lime that this killing occurred at the instigation of the Yugoslav security authorities. There is circumstantial support for this view inasmuch as the Yugoslav authorities have made no secret of the fact that they are prepared to operate outside Yugoslavia in order to revenge acts of terrorism committed against Yugoslavia. Furthermore, overseas sources indicate that in recent years there has been a growing volume of murders and attempted murders committed on prominent identities within the Croatian emigre community of Europe. 
I suggest that there is the refutation of  Senator Poyser's  argument that the only thing before the Senate is the paper that has been produced by the Minister, which suggests that all he found in ASIO was some evidence of Croatian activity in this country, and that the only matter that we are supposed to consider is that paper. 
This document was released by  Senator Murphy,  and 1 am certain that he would not have declassified secret documents without personal knowledge of what each one of them contained. We were to have a visit from the Yugoslav Prime Minister, accompanied by members of the Yugoslav secret police, and in this document which, as I say, was released by  Senator Murphy,  ASIO says that there has been growing world opinion - and I presume that ASIO would have received that information from other security organisations - that the Yugoslav Government itself was engaged in acts of terrorism and murder in other countries. It would be a reasonable assumption, failing any stronger evidence that we have to date that Croats in this country have been solely responsible for acts of violence, that the acts of violence could have come from this other source which has been revealed in the documents that have been declassified and tabled here by  Senator Murphy  himself. It is for  Senator Murphy  to answer whether he considers that it would improve foreign relationships to remove the secrecy from this document and have it become public property between this country and the country whose Prime Minister was invited to come to Australia by our Prime Minister. Surely nobody can limit our right to ask questions on these matters. The Minister has produced a document. I have dealt with only one of the things disclosed by the document, that is, the matter of Croatian terrorism as alleged by him. 1 believe that the other aspect is far more important than the documents that have been tabled by  Senator Murphy.  I believe that at no time should question time in the Senate be limited. Questions are asked to elicit information. We have a stack of documents that is at least 3 feet to 4 feet high. 
No. It will be weeks before we know all that  Senator Murphy  apparently knows about the documents. He is the one man who should know everything that is in every document, because he has declassified these documents which were formerly secret documents. They are now public property not only for this country and for this Parliament but for people throughout the world. We know that security organisations have many means of gathering information. Many of the documents and letters are signed. This Parliament should not be limited in the time spent in dealing with them. 
We must consider what would be the effect of limiting the time spent on questions. I refer to what happened in the previous Parliament. I could quote many examples of what happens once question time is limited in any way. The Senate often debated the motion for adjournment until 1 a.m., 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. Sometimes perhaps the matters discussed during the debate were not of great national importance. For weeks during adjournment debates we discussed a 4-year- old case about some Aboriginal girls at Yuendumu. 
We had the Bogle murder mystery solved for us after many long hours of sitting during the adjournment debate. The limiting of question time in the Senate would lead to a far greater sacrifice of the time of the Senate due to the consequent extension of adjournment debates. One of the remarkable features of the whole discussion on this matter of tremendous national importance that has developed from the various aspects of the raids on ASIO by the AttorneyGeneral is that the matter has not been raised during an adjournment debate. I refer not only to the raids on ASIO but also to what the Attorney-General alleges is Croatian terrorism, although I have failed to find any proof yet that it is actually caused by Croats. One man who has been charged said that he is a Serb and not a Croat. I wonder where we are getting to when we say specifically that the terrorism is caused only by Croats. But that is for another debate at another time. 
I have deliberately not touched upon matters which have been dealt with by  Senator Wright  and  Senator Withers  when they spoke to the motion. I have dealt with other aspects of this matter which I think are relevant to the discussion. The matter is not an unimportant one. We are trying to arrange the business of the Senate reasonably so that we can deal with problems of great national importance. It was the Government and the AttorneyGeneral who projected into the Senate the question of the importance of a national security organisation which has been established for a considerable period of time, a security organisation which governments of all political complexions- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order!  Senator Little,  you have had a great deal of latitude on this subject. I think it is time for you to connect your remarks to the motion. 
I shall endeavour to do that. I thought that everything I said in the course of the debate was at least relevant to the views expressed by  Senator Poyser.  He was given complete latitude. All that i have done has been to reply to him and introduce the question of whether the limiting of question time would- 
1 think that reference to the transference to the adjournment debate of matters which could be dealt with by way of question and answer is very relevant to the motion. Surely we are considering the whole ambit of the work of the Senate and whether the Senate should use 1, 2 or 3 hours, or all the hours up to the time of adjournment, on questions if it be the will of the Senate. 
If the motion is carried and if it is left to the good sense of the Senate, as it has been on each occasion this week, to decide that question time shall come to a close after 2 hours or even 3 hours, 1 believe that the good sense of the Senate will prevail. The Senate is composed of people who are well capable of taking into account other business which is before it and which is important to the nation. They will not be carried away to the extent, which  Senator Wright  suggested when making his point, of spending the whole day on questions. We know the consequences. We would have to make more hours available for the adjournment debate if we limited question time. We did sit late at night on some occasions. I am certain that honourable senators will keep this matter well to the forefront of their minds and that they will limit, of their own volition, question time rather than have a procedure adopted - whether by practice or under the Standing Orders - by which question time ends automatically at the will of a Minister. I support what  Senator Wright  has said about the rights of Ministers in this area. Certainly no Minister can be expected to answer a question if he does not know the answer. When he does answer I think it is his responsibility as well as his right, as a Minister, to answer to the best of his ability. Minis ters have made mistakes. They must be expected to make mistakes. They must be expected to make errors of judgment. If they do their best 1 do not believe that they will be judged harshly by the Senate for their mistakes at any time. I believe that if the whole matter is left in the hands of the Senate it will be in very safe hands. It is for that reason and for the reasons and the propositions which have been stressed in the course of the debate that I believe that a limitation should not be placed on question time. I believe that a time limit on questions dealing with the content of the statement made by the Attorney-General on ASIO is completely unacceptable to the idea that the Senate should play its role in the government of the country and in the actions of a government, whatever its political complexion may be. It is for those reasons that I on behalf of the Democratic Labor Party, support the motion. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I seek your indulgence,  Mr President,  in accordance with standing order 99, to quote from security document A 13, appendix A, page 2, because it is strictly necessary to do so to make my question intelligible. I quote: 
However, on 20th April 1969 the founder of  HNO  General  Maks  Luburic, was murdered in his villa in  Carcagente  Spain. It was widely believed at the time that this killing occurred at the instigation of the Yugoslav security authorities. There is circumstantial support for this view inasmuch as the Yugoslav authorities have made no secret of the fact that they are prepared to operate outside Yugoslavia in order to revenge acts of terrorism committed against  Yugoslavia  Furthermore- 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is there any specific reason why the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has not been reconstituted? Can he inform the Senate of Government intentions for this Committee, as work necessitating the completion of the report now partially prepared, is being hampered? Would the Government prefer the Australian Democratic Labor Party to move in the Senate for the Committee's reconstitution if the Government Party is suffering some embarrassment? 
Is the Acting Minister for Primary Industry aware that a conference of State representatives of the dairy industry will be held in Adelaide on 1st May? Is it proposed that the conference be presented with an ultimatum that quota production proposals be accepted or the bounty or subsidy will be lost? If the subsidy is to be withdrawn, will that loss apply to all States or only to those States which refuse to limit production? What are the reasons for forcing limited production on Victoria when world markets for Australian dairy produce are unlimited and when dairy farmers are confident of selling every pound produced? 
I wish to indicate, on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party that we support this Bill. We do not support it on the basis that money itself is the solution to the problem. We realise, of course, that the problem cannot be tackled without the finance required to take necessary action. If the problems of the Aboriginal people of this country could be solved merely by the Parliament voting the amount of money believed necessary to achieve that end, 1 think that senators in this chamber and members in the other place would set out immediately to take that action to solve some of the more urgent problems. 
I instance one matter affecting Aborigines. Contrary to the belief of many people, the Australian Aboriginal people are not primitive in themselves. Our Aborigines have been forced to live in a primitive environment. To survive in that environment they must condition themselves Jo their circumstances. To try to make Aborigines move from that way of life and live in our present day environment would be to court disaster. This is one area in which Aborigines have not been able to keep pace with us, not because they could not do so but because the circumstances of their environment made it imprudent that they should even try. They have survived where we would have perished. 
Aborigines, as they feel more and more the impact of our modern type of civilisation, must face other problems with which they find it most difficult to cope. These problems stem not from the environment to which they have become accustomed but from association with the ideas and standards by which the present society has learned to live. A close study of Aborigines in their simple environment reveals that they had excellent methods, for example, of maintaining family levels at a standard which was commensurate with their environment and which enabled them to survive. Because of the impact of our type of civilisation on Aborigines, their family numbers have expanded out of all proportion to previous family numbers. 
Some people believe that by enacting legislation to provide increased expenditure the infant mortality problem in Arnhem Land, for instance, could be cured overnight. But money will not solve the infant mortality problem because even if all the money in the world is stacked around the Aboriginal infants they will still die. Certainly medical knowledge can help if this assistance reaches the infants who are dying. But no doctor, however well intentioned, can take a babe out of its mother's arms for the purpose of saving its life. Even if enough money was made available for the recruitment of doctors in sufficient numbers to service these areas and even if doctors were found who could accept the harsh conditions and loneliness of such areas, this still would not necessarily mean that they could cope with the problem immediately. I think that too much criticism has been made of the medical men who have been dedicated enough to go to these areas. That criticism attributes to those doctors the responsibility for any failure in attempting to do what they set out to do. 
The infant mortality rate is not a scandal there. The complex causes of the problem can be readily understood by visiting these areas. Acknowledging the magnitude of the problem of the prevention of infant mortality, we should learn to respect the dedicated men who are attempting to maintain the level to which they have reduced the incidence of infant mortality, It  is  wrong that the doctors should be criticised in any way at all because of the facts contained in the statistics that they have produced to alert this nation to the problem that exists in these areas. It is a shame that through the simple process of the publication of these figures this information reaches everybody and causes a public outcry. The magnitude of the difficulties associated with this state of affairs is explained to very few. So, the public does not come to understand the reason why this problem exists. I am mentioning now only one of the problems with which these people, in such a primitive environment, must learn to live as they feel the impact of modern society on their lives. Money can help, but to obtain the necessary dedicated people willing to make personal sacrifices to go into certain areas to do this work is another problem of some magnitude. We may even have to provide high salaries to get them but we have to recruit sufficient people who are educated to do this job. Perhaps some of them are not psychologically suited for this type of employment and are not capable of achieving the maximum results. 
I mention only a few of these difficulties to indicate that when passing legislation of this character we must not think that by merely voting a sum of money we are completely solving the problem. By doing so we make only a small but necessary contribution towards its solution. Indeed, if we are unwise and vote too much money too soon for this work it may be spent unwisely. We may do what was done in the past when well intentioned legislation was passed, and add to the problem we are trying to solve rather than cure it. The old system of handouts was not conducive to providing a permanent solution to the problem, as I and other honourable senators have said before in this chamber. Handouts may have been thought to be the answer at the time and it is for that reason that I mention them. I see no virtue in harking back and passing recriminations about some of the mistakes of the past in the light of the greater knowledge that we have today. Perhaps without what now appear to be the mistakes of the past there would be no problem today. There may not have been the number of people requiring assistance to become assimilated into our community or to create a community capable of living together, however one likes to put it. Whichever is the best course to follow, it must be of a transitional nature because ultimately the only real solution to this problem is for us all to live together on similar standards as one nation. To attempt to do that within the foreseeable future would be perhaps expecting too much. Perhaps it would negate what we are trying to do rather than accomplish it. 
I think it is necessary only for me to indicate that the Democratic Labor Party wholeheartedly supports this Bill and the allocation of the money for the stated purpose. Money is being spent in this field much more wisely today than ever before. The thought being directed to this problem is producing many new ideas. However not all of them will be winners and we should not expect them to be. We should not expect more of the people being assisted by the spending of this money than we would expect of ourselves. Many of the problems that those people have  -  I speak of those who have become associated with our communities and live in urban areas - affect not only themselves as a society but also ourselves if we are a distinct entity at this time. Those problems affect us and our community almost as much as they affect Aborigines or people of part Aboriginal descent. A little patience and more understanding will assist in solving the problems of those people also. 1 agree with  Senator Laucke  that the problems of the people in urban areas are vastly different from those of the people in the more remote areas. We are not dealing with one problem really because it has many different facets. A dozen problems are rolled into one and each requires a unique solution. Certainly no single solution is applicable to all of the problem? The Democratic Labor Party knows that this Bill will be passed unanimously by the Senate and we give it our blessing. 
Is the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that 17th March, the date now given on which 
Australian citizens were executed in Yugoslavia, was the day after the day - or, on  Senator Murphy's  explanation today, 2 days after the day - on which the dawn raids were made on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Melbourne? Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the secret documents declassified as a result of those raids were made available or could have become available  to  any persons associated with the Yugoslav Embassy? Will the Minister ask the Prime Minister whether the Government will inquire whether the release of the ASIO documents prejudiced in any way the lives of these men? If the men could not have been proved guilty of crimes charged by the application of Australian law, will the Government pay compensation to the Australian widows and children of the men executed? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. As some of the documents seized in the raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were in the Croatian language, can the Attorney-General inform us who the interpreters were who were employed in the examination of those documents, from where they were obtained and when the examination of those papers began? On what date did persons previously not having access to the documents first get such access? 
My question is  addressed to the Special Minister of State as Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of his answer to my question yesterday, when he said that the documents declassified as a result of the raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were not declassified at the time of the execution of Australians in Yugoslavia, can he explain to me Press reports appearing on 1 9th March which read:  'Senator Murphy,  assisted by officials of the Attorney-General's Department, the Commonwealth Police, ASIO and special experts on Croatian activities, spent the weekend sifting files and all available evidence of terrorist groups'? As that seems to constitute an official Press release, has the Minister any information as to who were the experts on Croatian activities'? Would not their sifting of the files constitute breaching normal security of the documents, or is it a common practice for ASIO files to be examined by such a broadly representative group? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral supply to the Senate details of who were the experts in Croatian affairs who assisted him, Commonwealth police, Australian Security Intelligence Organisation officers and Attorney-General's Department officials to sift the ASIO documents during the week ending 17th to 19th March? How many people were actually involved? What security arrangements, if any, were made to preserve the secret classification of the documents during the days preceding the executions in Yugoslavia? 
 On behalf of  Senator Byrne  1 present the following petition from 274 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth - 
That grave concern is felt at the imminent introduction into the Commonwealth Parliament of legislation to permit abortion on demand. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate should not admit into the laws of this land a principle which violates a fundamental right - the right to life. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
11363/73- &gt;S- ISO). 
asked the Minister repre senting the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-Genera) supply  to the Senate the  reasons  why  telephone installationsin the PrestonReservoir areas  of  Melbourne  are  being changed from underground lead-ins toprivate property to the overhead wiring variety, in view ofthe modern practice of preserving our environment and the ghastly distortion of our surroundings occasioned by overhead electric and telephone poles and wiring. 
 I wish to support the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Greenwood.  I do so conscious that I am one who supported the Death Penalty Abolition Bill. I believe that it should be amended in this regard. First of all I shall deal with the arguments of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  as to why we should have no right to argue this matter or to express our own beliefs and feelings on it.  Senator Murphy  stated that this matter was mentioned as part of a policy speech delivered by a Party which was successful in winning the election for the House of Representatives. I suppose it could be argued by each honourable member representing an electorate that he should vote in accordance with the will of the people in that electorate, whether they voted for or against the Government's policy. I think that that is just as logical a point of view as the point of view put by  Senator Murphy.  Indeed, it is a point of view which, over the years, his Party has not seen fit to put forward in this Parliament. Had it not been so there could never have been any opposition in the Parliaments of this country to the commitment of the Australian Government. 
Consideration interrupted. 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave  tha  Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. (The Temporary Chairman having reported accordingly) 
 On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, I wish to indicate that we are prepared to support the Housing Assistance Bill, although we have very grave reservations about the way in which the Commonwealth has gone about co-operating with the States for the purpose of its implementation, lt is very good that we are trying to provide low cost housing for those people who require it. lt is very good that we should be making that type of housing available and encouraging the people who will benefit to provide for themselves and their future needs and to escape the circumstances that always surround landlordism, whether it be in the hands of the State or of private individuals. We should encourage the enthusiasm and the application of individuals who set out with the ambition of owning their own homes. This is far better than offering to a community a sop of low rental housing just so that it may be there and so that it can be said it has been provided. 
An enormous amount of good has come from the housing programs in this country when those on low incomes have been encouraged to purchase houses that have been made available by the States. They receive the same type of house. They have bought them under very advantageous circumstances and have been covered with excellent protection in the form of insurance that has been arranged by the various States. On this occasion, we find that there has been a great disputation, particularly with the State of Victoria that I represent in the Senate, on the question of how the money, once allocated to the State, will be spent and whether the homes are for rental or for purchase. I believe that a State ought to encourage people who require this type of housing and who set out to purchase housing within the compass of their finances. Nowhere has the Commonwealth produced evidence that any of the States, particularly the State that I represent - Victoria - have been making this type of housing available for purchase by people whose income is in excess of that of those renting houses. Provided housing is going to the people, I much prefer to see a government with the ambition to encourage purchase rather than rental of these types of homes. I believe that the Commonwealth has been wrong in imposing such requirements upon the States. The requirements have been relaxed to some degree, but not to the extent desired by the Government of the State of Victoria in particular. I am not aware of the attitudes of the other States. 
The other question that can arise in relation to the general cost of houses that may bc purchased from the States even in these circumstances is the need to draw attention to the situation despite the advantages that will accrue to this section of our community as a result of this Bill; that is, that those who wish to purchase, if they are hampered by the higher interest rates which have now been agreed to by this Government, will find that, whatever the Government may try to do in other directions to lower the cost of housing, the near 1 per cent increase in the overall interest rates not only will take from them whatever advantages are available as a result of attempts to lower costs in terms of prices of material or even land but also will mean that ultimately they will pay more for their homes than they would under more reasonable interest rates which are within their compass. 
Having stated, those criticisms, I say that the Democratic Labor Party has no desire to delay the Bill. We are- even prepared to assist in ils speedy passage although we have reservations about it. We request the Government to look twice at this type of policy because we do not believe that it is trying to carry out, in legislative form, the ideals that it purports to have on this question. 1 believe that, like myself, the present Government believes in more home ownership for the lower income groups than they are enjoying today. Surely, therefore, the Government does not want to persevere with the idea that it must make everybody on a lower income merely a tenant of a landlord State. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Minister aware that the present wheat quota system is reacting harshly against some traditional wheat farmers who, for health, family or other reasons, did not produce wheat during the quota averaging period of 1963-64 to 1968-69? As farmers who restricted their production or did not produce in those years did not contribute to the overproduction that caused the enforcement of quotas, does the Minister consider it to be fair that farmers with many years of wheat production behind them should now be prevented from producing at all by the denial of  a  quota in the present restricted production? Will the Minister explain to the Senate why there is a need to persist with total bans on those farmers when there is every indication that world demand is expanding and Australia's wheat prospects abroad seem excellent? Finally, if increased quotas are allocated, will the Minister give an assurance that the claims of such farmers will be considered? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Will the Postmaster-General, in view of the modern trendto preserve all aspects of the environment, inform the Senate as to why underground connecting wires for telephone installations in homes in some northern suburbs of Melbourne are being replaced with unsightly overhead connections. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The 
Postmaster-General has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
In older housing areas in the northern suburbs of Melbourne it was the practice to provide for telephone services by a system of fully underground cable distribution. Unlike modern practice which requires the provision of pipe to facilitate the subsequent installation and replacement of cables, these older cables were buried directly in the ground. 
Renewal of these older cables, many of which have reached the end of their economic life, therefore presents a considerable engineering problem and inconvenience to the public since the areas are now fully developed, footpaths made up and serviced, and gardens established. 
In recent years the Department has negotiated agreements for the sharing of power poles for both overhead electricity and telephone distribution, and replacement of the deteriorated underground telephone cables by aerial distribution in accordance with these agreements obviates the need to excavate the made up surfaces and gardens and is considerably less costly than the underground alternative. 
Whilst the Department is appreciative  of  the desirability  of  preserving the living environments from unsightly aerial construction, the erection  of  comparatively light unobtrusive telephone leads  on  existing power routes does little to add  to  the disfigurement  of  the environment. 
A similar reply has already been made to Question  No.  178  on  the same subject which related specifically  to  the suburbs  of  Preston and Reservoir. 
The Democratic Labor Party has examined this Bill and there are a considerable number of amendments to be moved during the Committee stage of the debate. They will have to be considered at the appropriate time. When one considers the Bill one finds that it embraces very deep principles and some rather fine complexities. I would like to compliment the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  for making such a brief and adequate speech when moving the second reading of the Bill. It covered the general principles behind the establishment of a pipeline author ity to tackle a task of this magnitude. I propose to follow the very sensible pattern that the Minister established and also be as brief as possible. Having dealt with the fundamental principles of the need for the establishment of such an authority it is redundant to talk of lots. of other things that may be related to past history and future hopes. In establishing an authority such as this we can hardly appreciate at this time the ultimate magnitude of the project because we do not know precisely the resources that we have to tap in this country. We have no conception of what our resources are likely to be and for that reason we cannot foresee the magnitude of the task that may ultimately confront the Authority. 
The principle of setting up the Authority to tackle this task is a sound one. Obviously it would be beyond the capacity of individual companies to meet such a national need. Individual companies may adequately meet their own requirements for a specific project, but at the moment we cannot foresee how many of the projects involved may be complementary to each other, although there may be no business relationship between the companies, the firms and the mining interests that may be affected ultimately. Therefore it seems sensible, particularly in view of the defence aspect, that there should be a national authority having the backing of the Commonwealth Parliament which in extreme circumstances can override the rights of individuals and of the States in the interests of the whole of Australia. 
Written into the Bill are some clauses which will give certain guarantees to and securities for individual rights and which will afford protection if they are interfered with. Fundamental to the application of legislation such as this in this country is something we have not yet established but which to my mind is one of the best safeguards of all. I refer to the establishment of an overriding authority such as an ombudsman to whom people can appeal if they believe that they have been aggrieved or their personal rights have been interfered with by the ultimate decision of authority. They could appeal to an ombudsman, a body which is not of the Government but of the people, who could act in judgment between their rights and those of even the Parliament. We do not have such an overriding authority as yet although the Democratic Labor Party has counselled it for  a  long time. Indeed, as long as  15  years ago I remember putting forward such a policy when I was the leader of our parliamentary party in State politics. During the State election campaign, I put forward that policy for the establishment of such an authority to whom the people could appeal. With the appointment of an ombudsman 'I think that the safeguards in this legislation would be quite adequate. I believe that we will have some type of ombudsman in the future because political party after political party is beginning to follow the initiative of the Democratic Labor Party in suggesting such an authority. Now it seems to be the policy of almost every political party in Australia. There should be such an authority to whom people can appeal and I think that ultimately it will be part of Commonwealth law. 
Although some clauses of the Bill seem to give extreme powers to the Pipeline Authority, one can visualise that in many circumstances it should be clothed with such powers so long as they are not applied dictatorially. Therefore we have to rest upon the good sense of the Authority, when established, and rely on the appointment in the future of an ombudsman so that there will be some body to whom an aggrieved person can appeal. 
Certain clauses of the Bill relate to the establishment and financing of the Pipeline Authority. Referring to one of the amendments to be proposed, the establishment of the Authority's capacity to raise the enormous amounts of finance that will be necessary to carry this project to a successful conclusion seems to be soundly based in terms of our present financial setup. The Authority must have power to borrow the money that is necessary. This seems to be adequately catered for in the Bill. There is to be some restraint and some reference will have to be made to Parliament about the areas in which the Authority may exercise its capacity to raise funds. The Bill also contains clauses aimed at endeavouring to ensure that this project will be commercially successful and will operate within its own capacity to earn sufficient income to pay for its operations and perhaps contribute to the national wealth as a result of any profit that its makes. However, this being a national project, I agree that profit should be ancillary to other things, although it should be attainable. It should be possible for the Authority to make a profit. The industry is now established and the requirement for its products throughout the world is so great that there is no reason why anything associated with it should be run at a cost to the public, lit should be able to carry on under its own weight. 
Some alarming and very educating facts face us in the world today. This is ' an enormous industry. Whole nations can become dependent on the power resources of the world. In the economic field, in the past several years people have been puzzled by the recourse of the United States of America to a revaluation of its currency. This was forced on it by the increasing shortage of its own currency. It became very difficult for the United States to trade internationally as she previously had been doing. One of the major contributory reasons for this has been the requirement that has developed in the United States for the expenditure of huge sums of her own capital to import the necessary fuel and power to maintain, in particular, her transport industry and to allow use of all the private motor vehicles that are on the roads in that country. 1 refer to the contractual arrangements and agreements that the United States has with the oil nations of Arabia. Saudi Arabia and other countries in that area are supplying much of the fuel and power required by the United States today. Enormous amounts of money have to be paid to and are being accumulated by the authorities in those countries. Some of them are sheiks. Some of them do very well by their people from this activity; some do not. But that is their business. I am speaking purely of the effect that this has had on the economy of the United States and on the capacity of the currency of that nation to stand in the world in the same manner in which it previously was able to stand. 
It has become possible for the oil millionaires of the Arabian states to hold on to the enormous incomes that they have accumulated in American dollars and then to flood that currency on to the world market, so manipulating that market and the value of that currency. In this way they earn still further profits on the income that they have received from the United States. This situation is forced upon the United States by the necessity for it to purchase oil and fuel. The activities of some of the oil millionaires of the Arabian states on international monetary markets have led to international monetary crises as a result of which the economy of the 
United States has come under the enormous pressures to which it has been subjected in recent years. I cite this example only to illustrate the magnitude of the activity on which this country now embarks as it becomes an oil producer. 
Australia has great requirements for its own fuel. Australia had at least internal requirement for the use of the huge oil resources that were discovered in this nation. The Arabian States of the world were not in a similar position, but this natural resource had to be exported. This resource was discovered  mainly through the use of American technology. The Americans negotiated contracts for this purpose in the early days of exploration quite easily. But, as money and new techniques became available and knowledge was gained of the enormous voluntary power that was generated from the new wealth being received from the areas in which such resources were discovered, the Arab States were able to manipulate the situation and to exploit it in their own right. I criticise nobody in this respect; I am only stating the facts. I do not wish to get into any controversy as to who were the 'goodies' and who were the baddies', because these people were not doing what anybody else would not do if he were in the same situation. I merely remind the Senate that this is what has happened and that this is the magnitude of the industry and the activity into which Australia has ventured as it has become the oil producing nation that it is now. 
Whilst Australia is capable of producing a great deal of its fuel requirements now, the day may not be too far away when it will become a fuel exporting country. Into that prediction must be written an atmosphere of caution. Australia does not want to reach the stage where, if the requirement for this type of fuel continues as the technologies of future generations develop, it will be reduced to the poverty state to which the United States has reduced itself by the lavish use of its own fuel resources to the extent that it has become so dependent on fuel imports from wherever those imports may be obtained in the world. America's requirements have developed to exceed any concepts of its need in this area that might have been proposed even a quarter of a century ago. With this thought in mind, one begins to realise the magnitude of the proposition and the need for a national pipeline authority which will be one of the parts - a most vital and important part - but by no means the whole of the proposition to be considered in relation to this industry, which is in its infancy in Australia today. 1 notice that in the Bill certain provisions are made with respect to the proposed Authority and its power to construct pipelines. I wish to make special reference to these provisions because what is proposed here is not the first pipeline to be constructed in Australia. Victoria has a pipeline. Its length is short compared with the distance to be covered by the proposed pipeline to be established by this Authority. The Victorian pipeline extends from Gippsland to Melbourne. A great deal of difficulty has been associated with that pipeline. Experts have been engaged; authorities have been set up. People have said that a pipeline could go under the waters of Port Phillip Bay. A difference of opinion has arisen as to whether such action would be a threat to the environment. I do not wish to enter into the controversy on that matter. 
But, relating that situation to the provisions of this Bill, I point out that this Bill imposes stringent requirements on people who may seek to interfere. with the right of the Authority to construct a pipeline. The Authority will be answerable to the Parliament. The Authority must prove its case in support of any proposed pipeline to the extent that technological knowledge is available to it to help it to prove that case to the Parliament which gives authority for any such proposition to proceed. The Bill contains most stringent provisions as to offences that may be declared and as to fines that shall be exercised against people who frustrate, interfere with or cause damage in any way to the work of the Authority once that Authority has been given the necessary permission from Parliament to proceed with a project. 
I think that reasonable people will agree that these provisions in the Bill are most wise. I am pleased that the Government has included them. The need for us to watch the environment of this country is great. There is a greater awareness than ever before in our history of this need. The Senate has shown its interest through the select committees which it has established at different times to investigate this matter. We can operate only within the knowledge that we have. Areas , of disputation as to who is right and who is wrong will always exist. Once all knowledge on a proposal has been examined, a determination must be made on whether to proceed with the project and whether to cross the fine line beyond which that project may become a threat to the environment. 
The authority to make that decision must only and always be vested in the Parliament which will determine, on the facts supplied, what should or should not be attempted. Once that decision is made by the Parliament, there should never be freedom within an organised community which has elected the members of that Parliament to defy the decision of the Parliament or to interfere with and destroy the work that is to be performed by a body such as the proposed Authority. That should be the case whether those who wish to interfere with a project are private individuals, people who have banded together to form a society to protect the environment or people who have banded together to protect the wages and influence of those who work in a specific industry - and I refer there to a trade union. Such people may obtain information from another source that the Parliament has not examined a proposition and that a project still is a threat to the environment. I think that any group is entitled to do that. 
I think that, from that point, it is entitled to go to members of Parliament and to do what some people object to, that is, to put pressure on members of Parliament. I agree with pressure being put on members of Parliament. I have been a member of several parliaments. I agree that pressure is one of the good methods by which parliamentarians are kept thinking and working. I do not object at all to pressure being applied to parliamentarians. But, if such a group fails to have its view accepted by the Parliament through this democratic means. I agree that provisions such as those contained in this Bill should apply with respect to the carrying out of an approved project. 
My only concern is that perhaps these provisions do not go far enough in imposing penalties that will be sufficiently restrictive to stop people wrongly interfering with that which flows from a decision which has been properly made by the Parliament in the interests of the whole of the community but in respect of which those people may hold a different point of view. They are entitled to that point of view and they are entitled to express it. They are entitled, within all the limits of our democracy, to seek to change the view of the legislature in which the powers are vested by the people to make decisions on behalf of all the people. But those people should never be empowered to break the laws of this country, whether they act as individuals or are associated with any well meaning society that may exist for any well meaning purpose whatsoever. When that happens, it is anarchy and that, in the final analysis, never pays off. 
As I said, a pipeline has been constructed in Victoria, lt was built in accordance with the authorities that existed to enable it to be constructed. But that project is not identical with what is proposed here. In my view, those responsible for constructing that pipeline in Victoria should have been subject to similar supervision to that which will be imposed on the Authority proposed by this Bill. To my knowledge, they were subject to similar supervision. That supervision should include where a pipeline should be constructed, how it should be constructed, why it should be constructed and, in the interests of the whole community, what is the most economic cost proposal to construct a pipeline between one point and another. It should be under supervision to ensure the protection of the environment to the fullest possible extent. When those criteria are met, the constructing body should have the authority to go ahead and to do the job without interference from people who think that they know better than those in authority. Indeed, they could even be right. But, until those people can prove their case to the relevant authorities, they have no right to impose their beliefs. They should be subject to the stringent provisions of this Bill which restrict their capacity to upset, to destroy and to prevent the successful conclusion of any work that the proposed Authority may set out to do. 
Reverting to the finance, one amendment, which I select only to illustrate what I think is the magnitude of the problem, seeks to have authorised by the Parliament expenditure in excess of $2m which the Authority may be contemplating. We shall listen to all the arguments about the amendments before we make up our minds about them, but in considering the magnitude of this project and the funding of the Authority as set out in the Bill, realising that the funding is subject completely to the ordinary audit which is made of all accounts of the Commonwealth, we cannot see why $2m should be an arbitrary figure of expenditure to be referred back to the Parliament. Because of the magnitude of the operations in which this Authority may be engaged, the Parliament could spend too much of its time dealing with what could be the petty cash of an Authority of this magnitude. I do not believe that even the biggest companies such as the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd could afford to have safeguard clauses to this extent which would practically require referring to the whole of its shareholders any expenditure it proposed to disburse for the expansion of its business before that expenditure could be approved. I do not think that the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd would be a major company had it faced such a requirement. The trammelling effect of the examinations and perhaps the frustrations that could he felt would be severe. Any reference back to the Parliament, I suppose, could always include political considerations. However, until we hear very good argument in favour of them we are not disposed to lean very heavily towards amendments of the character of that one. 1 cite it at this stage only to suggest to the House that we will consider these amendments, that we shall hear the arguments about them and the reasons and ideas for their inclusion in the Bill. We support the second reading of the Bill and we compliment the Minister in charge of the Bill on the terms in which he introduced it and the simple explanation he has given. 
 I oppose the amendment. Firstly, I do not think that the amendment to add the words ', provided that petroleum does not include coal', seeks to add those words at the right place in the Bill. The definition of 'petroleum' states: 
any naturally occurring hydrocarbon, whether in a gaseous liquid or solid state; 
any naturally occurring mixture of hydrocarbons, whether in a gaseous, liquid or solid state; 1 believe that that definition includes coal. If coal is included in those 2 sub-paragraphs, why should this endeavour to delete reference to coal be made by adding to the last subparagraph, which is sub-paragraph (e), the words which I have already quoted? That sub-paragraph now reads: 
any mixture of a hydrocarbon or hydrocarbons so produced with another substance or other substances; 
It excludes coal. What is being overlooked, I think, is that coal can be converted into petroleum. Indeed, in this country it would be very wise, particularly in the State I happen to represent - Victoria - if more attention were given to this form of production of petroleum or mixture of hydrocarbons than is given to it today. The Latrobe Valley has enormous reserves of brown coal that could be converted into petroleum. If a pipeline grid were set up it is within imagination that at some time a national authority may take, over the pipelines that already exist for the transportation to Melbourne of natural gas which has been discovered adjacent to the brown coal fields in Victoria. Circumstances could arise whereby it would be very necessary for a national authority to control the pipelines that already exist or others that may lead off into another direction from those particular deposits. Coal converted into petroleum should be one of the products envisaged for transportation by a national pipe line grid. This country should not be wasteful in the use of the whole of its resources. Because we are seeing discoveries of reserves of fuel in the form of oil in Bass Strait, in particular, from which most of Australia's present supplies are coming, we should not overlook the other natural resources which are largely falling into abeyance as a result of the easier usage of natural gas. The United States would dearly love to have our brown coal reserves, to convert them in the manner I have described into other fuels and to transport those fuels through some of the pipelines that exist in that country. I believe that the reasons advanced for the deliberate exclusion of coal from this legislation are much less cogent than the need for having coal included. I believe that the description given in the Bill does include coal. The Bill in its present form is quite unacceptable and we are not prepared to support the amendment on the arguments that have been advanced. 
The Democratic Labor Party does not see any great danger in this paragraph. As  Senator Webster  said, it can be used one way or the other. 1 think there was some wisdom in writing the paragraph into the legislation. The Authority will handle petroleum that is produced by differing companies, many with overseas interests. Some oil companies, even at the moment, are embarrassed at times with industrial and labour troubles. Recently, the whole of the aircraft industry of this country was held up. At times no transport is available. One can readily see the situation that may occur when the whole of this enormous grid is developed as a result of this Authority. lt may lie idle because the companies that own the petrol resources either will not supply or, perhaps through circumstances beyond their control such as industrial trouble, are unable to supply. 1 think it is very good that the Authority should have the power to buy. lt is beyond the point of this argument whether the Authority is under the control of the present Government or some future government. 1 can well see that it might be a very wise precaution for the Bill to provide that the Authority can purchase anywhere. With a grid such as this it would be foolish not to have such a provision so that the Authority conveniently could distribute to many areas of Australia products from the nearest port of entry in Australia to the point of purchase. We cannot foresee the future of the industry, and it may be that the resources which are available to Adelaide from Perth at the present time may begin to fade or cut out although there may be great reliance on that source of supply in Adelaide. In such a case it may be very convenient for the Authority to purchase petrol or oil, or in whatever form it can be put through the grid, in some Eastern country, bring it to the nearest port of entry such as Perth and flow it through the grid to whatever centre may need it. 
I admit that perhaps one could read into this clause all sorts of sinister implications in accordance with one's political point of view. But there is no certainty that even before the Authority is firmly established and operating there will not be a change of government in this country, and completely different necessities may result as the course of the political life of Australia develops. We cannot consider all legislation with the idea that the Government which introduced a particular piece of legislation will not always be in a position to administer it. I think the proposed amendment is quite a reasonable precaution to have in the Bill. The project will be enormously expensive. The Pipeline Authority must have supplies available to it at all times. I well recall that when the honourable Vincent Gair was the Premier of Queensland he was forced, because of certain price increases, to take on the oil companies and to try to get shipments ot oil from other parts of the world. Indeed, he went a long way along the course of achieving this end in the interests of the citizens of the State of which he happened to be the principal authority at the time. 
I think that this Pipeline Authority should be able to operate in the interests of the enormous organisation that it will have under its control. Even if it has pressures placed upon it from any side, whether because of industrial troubles or whether because of companies producing oil in this country that might be foreign controlled, the Authority should be able to bargain on the market and to utilise the facilities that it will create. We do not propose to support this amendment. 
I think I can relate these remarks to a foreshadowed amendment which I think is very important. I say to the Government that once this Authority is established it is very necessary to have another precaution which is provided for in the terms of a proposed amendment which we intend to support. However, I will speak to that amendment when it is moved. The amendment provides that the Pipeline Authority shall be a common carrier. If we give the Authority the capacity to buy these commodities anywhere in the world, in order to meet its requirements we must be very sure that, at the whim of the Authority, it is not able to deny the rights of the producers in this country, whoever they may be, and exclude their products from the common carriage to the necessary markets in the various States. Once the pipeline has been constructed it will be the only economic means of access to the markets in other cities. It will become completely impossible economically to compete with the Authority in the transportation of these products from one part of Australia to another. Whilst I agree with the Government that the proposed amendment is necessary to protect it in certain circumstances which could arise, it is also necessary to provide for the protection of everybody else. In saying that I may be indicating what we are likely to do in relation to the other amendment, because I do believe that the protections they afford are dependent to some extent one upon the other. I think the same philosophy applies to both of them. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 13 A. 
I was beginning to wonder whether we were not getting pipelined off the main track on to a discussion of what are or are not the functions of the Public Works Committee because it happens to be mentioned in part of the amendment. Whilst it might appear that this section of the amendment is valid from one point of view, I think we must accept the fact that this Pipeline Authority will be under Government jurisdiction. No expenditure in excess of $500,000 can be incurred without the authority of the Minister. As a member of this Parliament, I do not want to accept authority at some subsequent stage for the actions of a Government which has got a project into a particular position and then comes to the Parliament because expenditure on a certain item of the pipeline operation happens to be in excess of $2m. This could involve the Parliament perhaps in helping to overcome a mistake that may have been made and shifting responsibility on to the Parliament for something that the Government had done. At this stage I do not think that it would be possible for members of this Parliament to be so well informed that they would know precisely the financial responsibility connected with the expenditure of the money or for both Houses of the Parliament to be informed as to the business and economic proposition involving the investment of a further $2m of capital. 
One could imagine all sorts of things happening in the Authority itself to inhibit its work once this sort of a provision was tacked on to a body such as this. Firstly, the Parliament could be sensible enough to authorise the digging of holes into which to put the pipes. Over the area that is envisaged, small sections of the pipeline could cost $2m. Having dug the holes, one of the Houses of Parliament might get into the cranky mood that Houses of Parliament sometimes get into - and I am not suggesting in any circumstances that it would be this House - and it might decide not to allow the purchase of the pipes to put in the holes that have already been dug. 
 If  Senator Georges  is not following my argument, he has not followed the history of his own Party which often has made decisions for a political reason that are far more stupid than what  Senator Georges  seems to think I am suggesting. 
That is right. We did not give you a chance because you were not worthy of it, and 1 think that the people have made a mistake now. 
 Do not lose the support that you are getting before you are sure 'that you have got it. I believe that this is a project of enormous character which the Government is implementing and that the Government has to take the responsibility for the success or failure of the project. If the people remove this Government from office, another government can make a choice as to whether it accepts the responsibility for the success or failure of the project, or whether somebody else accepts that responsibility. We, as members of Parliament, are accepting the responsibility and are saying - we said this by agreeing to the second reading of the Bill - that the project, as envisaged, should be implemented and that a responsible authority should be set up. Clearly under the terms of the Bill, this responsible Authority is under the supervision of the Government, and 1 am prepared to leave it at that until this Government does what I think it will do in many areas, that is, shows that it is incompetent to carry on. Then the people will deal with the Government and we will get a new government. 
I do not believe that we can set up an authority such as this Pipeline Authority and provide that every expenditure in excess of $2m must be authorised by the Parliament. If the Minister has to approve of all sorts of projects up to $500,000, where do we start to draw the line? itf projects are undertaken in bites of $500,000 or $lm, they do not involve expenditure in excess of $2m and they do not have come to Parliament. All you are doing is saying to the Authority: 'If Parliament is in recess or something, you can go along with a certain project up to $1 short of $2m, but if you go to $2,000,001, you have to come and get the authority of Parliament.' So the project is cut up into the slices that are necessary to meet the limitation of $2m, and the Authority goes right ahead. If we want supervision of the expenditure on the whole project brought to the Parliament, then every contract that the Authority might enter into will have to be brought here. But is that feasible or possible? (Because of the enormity of this project, the Authority will have to deal with many people. It will have to purchase pipes not from one company, but probably from 3, 4 or 6 companies, and not all of them will be in Australia if we believe all that has been said about this matter. The Australian industry is reported to have said that it cannot supply all the pipes, that it wants to supply those sections of the pipes that it can. So the Authority will be dealing with companies supplying pipes not only here in Australia but also in other parts of the world. Every time that the Authority enters into a contract to spend $2ra, $Sm, $6m or $8m on pipes, it will have to come here and have the expenditure authorised by the 2 Houses of the Parliament. The Authority may have the holes dug and waiting for the pipes to be put in, but it will not be able to get the contracts because the Parliament is not sitting. The Authority will be able to get from the Minister authority to spend $500,000 so it will be able to give an order for $500,000 worth of pipes. But a busy Japanese company is likely to say: Look, make it a decent order or we will not accept it'. An order for $500,000 worth of pipes in some instances would be a small contract - indeed, a very small contract. I believe that there are practical arguments without going into the question of what are the func tions of the Public Works Committee. The argument as to whether the Committee will not, does not or may not have any supervisory functions under this Bill is redundant and a waste of time. We believe that this amendment will not give any great supervisory powers to the Parliament. In fact, the suggested powers may be an embarrassment to the Parliament. We believe that the authority vested in the Government should be carried out by the Government. At this stage we hope that the Government will carry out this authority in a practical and efficient manner. 
Consideration interrupted. 
We have considered the amendment (hat has now been moved as we considered the other amendment. We have listened very carefully to the words of the Minister for Works  (Senator Cavanagh)  who, although he is not in charge of the Bill, has spoken on it quite authoritatively on many occasions. It would appear that there was a feeling within the Ministry itself that the accounts and the purchasing capacity of this Pipeline Authority were, under the legislation to be under some control of the Public Works Committee. I referred to this matter last night when I said that I thought we were being led up a side lane when the previous amendment was introduced. But what that amendment suggested now seems to have some substance. 
Our attitude, to this measure has been to assist the Government to achieve the objective that it set out to achieve. We think that the present amendment is not unreasonable. Perhaps the amount of $2m is too restrictive for an authority of this size. But the Public Works Committee Act exempts from scrutiny by the Public Works Committee works costing less than $750,000, and the amount of $2m is far in excess of that provided under the Public Works Committee. Act. As the Government itself, even at this stage, has raised no objection to the amount mentioned in the amendment, it is not for us to suggest a different amount. To accept this amendment would accord with the spirit of co-operation to get this measure passed in the interests of the Government, which could then establish the authority. This amendment clarifies the argument that has taken place between the lawyers, on the one hand, and the Minister for Works on the other hand. Work for this Authority may or may not come under the, jurisdiction of the Public Works Committee. If it is desired that it should come under the Committee's jurisdiction, then it is as well that that should be made plain in the Pipeline Authority Act. For that reason we support the amendment. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to support this amendment. As I pointed out in speaking to another clause last night, this Authority is being clothed with wide and great powers. I think it should have them to be successful. But we believe also that it should accept the obligations that attach to its great responsibilities. I would not think that the possibility that the law relating to a common carrier would be invoked against the Authority was great or that circumstances giving cause for such action would ever arise. I would hope that they would not. But I believe that it is a reasonable precaution to insert this provision in the legislation. It should be there in case reasons or causes arise as to why some person or body should have the right to resort to the law as a person or body should have the right to resort to the law as a person or body may be forced to do. Wc must consider that right in the light of the fact that the Authority is to be clothed with wide powers to protect it and indeed to help it to enter into what could become a very commercial enterprise and one which, at some time, could even enter into very keen competition in other forms of activity of which we may not be aware at this stage of the development of technology. For those reasons, we support the amendment. 
1  cannot understand, when we are discussing the clauses of this Bill in Committee, that we have to prove for the sake of somebody's ego that he was right  5  or  10  years ago. I do not think that it is relevant to the Bill before the Committee. Most of the discussion seems to have been diverted to these factors. I am beginning to think that  Senator Wriedt  will never have the Bill passed if he gets too much help. The more assistance he receives, the further away this possibility seems to be. This is a very simple proposition. The clause sets out very clearly enormous powers for the Authority which are absolutely necessary when we consider the magnitude of the task with which it is faced. There is the vastness- of the terrain, the remoteness of some of the areas through which it will have to push to ascertain whether the soil and rock formations are suitable and whether everything else is suitable for this pipeline to be taken in a specific direction. 
The Authority must have great powers. We must recognise that its position will be unlike that of any other authority, even the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority, in which case the area of activity was largely known when the Bill concerning that scheme was discussed. Here we are discussing matters which none of us, even in our wildest realms of imagination, can visualise at this moment. We do not know where, how and under what circumstances this authority will have to enter on to land. The ownership of the land may be uncertain. Lengthy searches of records may be needed to find out who owns the land and where the owner is. He may be  1,000  miles from the area through which the Authority proposes to go. 
In the broad powers that are outlined in the Bill there may be an offence against civil rights. I do not believe that the insertion of the amended clause will offer any great obstruction to the Authority. I believe that at least it will . add some small safeguards. Authorised persons from the Authority will be able to go on to land not only to survey for the purpose of mapping but also to take levels, sink bores, dig pits and examine the soil. Such people practically will be able to walk on to a property and do anything they like. In some circumstances, I could imagine that they could walk in and dig up a person's front lawn. If he were not home, they could do it without any recourse to anyone - just on the authority given to the employees of the pipeline authority. This could be done unless there is to be some safeguard. All that is proposed is that they should have to get a magistrate to approve this. I do not think that a magistrate would let them dig up a front lawn until he found out a little more about the matter. So I think it is a reasonable precaution. If it is that, what are we arguing about? The Australian Democratic Labor Party is for civil rights and we are in favour of this clause being amended. 
The period of 7 days, under some circumstances, could be considered to be reasonable. I am not concerned about States. I think States are powerful enough to look after themselves. If States receive notification to which they object, they are in a position to kick up sufficient noise so that at least everybody will know about it. My concern is for the ordinary average individual, many of whom will be concerned when this Authority begins to carry out its construction work. We have already mentioned the remote areas through which this pipeline may go. I can well see a situation in which notice in writing could very well be delivered towards the end of a week. If a person wished to consult his lawyer because he believed an injustice was being done to him a journey of thousands of miles might be involved before he could even obtain the legal advice he is seeking in relation to his rights in resisting the authority. When it comes to the ordinary people in our community who need protection more than the big and powerful companies, I believe that 7 days is not long enough. If the authority proposed to build a pipeline across the mining leases of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, I think that BHP could well look after itself within the 7 days time limit. But if the authority proposes to cross the property of Bill Smith who has been a battler in the outback all his life, I think he needs the consideration of being given reasonable notice. 
I do not think the requirement for the authority to give 30 days notice would impose any hardship on it at all. The authority will know well in advance what it will be doing. It will have to know because of the magnitude of the project. It will have to plan months ahead whether it will pass through property A, B or C. To require it to give 30 days notice will impose no hardship or inconvenience on the authority at all and it will afford added protection to the thousands of ordinary people whose rights can be interfered with because of the magnitude of this venture. I appeal to the Government to be reasonable in its consideration of this amendment and to accept it. I feel that under the circumstances 7 days is far too little notice if it is intended to protect the ordinary people for whom the Government has sometimes expressed a very warm affection and, I hope, a deep interest. 
The Democratic Labor Party has considered this amendment. We do not place upon it the same importance as has been placed upon it  by  some honourable senators who have participated in this discussion. We feel that the establishment of a Pipeline Authority of this character, which will take over the development of pipelines throughout Australia - excluding those that have been established already - will make it most unlikely that there will be any other pipeline authorities or that any other pipelines will be built in the future, except in conjunction with this Authority. Therefore, we do not read into this clause the significance which has been read into it by other honourable senators. The DLP believes that the clause should stand in the Bill. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 40 to 44  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 45. 
The Authority shall, as soon as practicable after each 30 June, prepare and furnish to the Minister, for presentation to the Parliament, a report of its operations during the year ended on the date, together with financial statements in respect of that year in such form as the Treasurer approves. 
on this amendment. We had not seen any great virtues in the amendment. I think that in setting up an Authority of this magnitude there has to be some acceptance of the fact that the Authority will operate in a proper manner. Then there te the requirement that all financial documents be furnished to the Minister for presentation to the Parliament. We do not see any added safeguards in providing that written contracts should form part of the report. In all probability, most contracts of any magnitude would be included in the report. Small contracts that are entered into for various things might not be included in the report. We do not think that the sheer clerical work that would be required in making all these minor matters relating to the form of contracts available to the Parliament is justified, and we will not support the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 46 agreed to. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
 As was stated by  Senator Byrne,  the Australian Democratic Labor Party is supporting the amendment which has been moved by  Senator Withers.  I found the speech of  Senator James 
McClelland most entertaining and almost laughable in places. I thought we were encouraged with a little constructive comment when he avoided all mention of the merits of the Bill which he charged everyone else with avoiding. He referred to the excellent Leader of the Liberal Party in the State which I happen to represent in the Senate, namely,  Mr Hamer.  Of course, those remarks may not please  Mr Holding  who I understand is supposed to be the Leader of the Party which  Senator James  McClelland represents.  Mr Holding  must have failed ignominiously in putting forward his policies and  Mr Hamer  was able to present his own policies better than somebody else presented them. It seems to me to be a remarkable admission that the Labor Party had the wrong man presenting its policies in Victoria. 
As a representative of that State in the Senate, I must admit, having listened to the policies of the Party, that I can see very little in  Mr Hamer's  policies that have not been put forward by his Party on previous occasions. Indeed, if some of those ideas were filched even from the Democratic Labor Party, I think that is a right that everyone in politics has. The policies of the Democratic Labor Party have always been available to everybody. We notice that even the idea of having an ombudsman, which we put up 18 years ago during our first election campaign, ultimately has been adopted by the Labor Party. We were only about 15 years ahead of the Labor Party in advocating the abandonment of the white Australia policy and things of this nature. But we do not mind the Labor Party adopting those policies. We consider our function in politics is to put forward good ideas and, if we cannot get the numbers to put through legislation embodying those ideas ourselves, we are very pleased to see them embodied in legislation put through by others. 

 Senator James McClelland made threats about a double dissolution. I doubt whether a more responsible member of his Party would make such threats, but he made them and he drew attention to the line-up of candidates in the election that would result. 
 I was just about to mention that. I thank the honourable senator. If the statement made by  Senator James 
McClelland is right  Mr Whitlam  would be a definite contender, and maybe  Mr Gorton,  who is haunting his shadows now, and perhaps some other members of the Liberal Party in another place who were unable to carry this proposition in that House when they were in Government. On the other side I suppose it is suggested that there would be  Mr Snedden.  The Democratic Labor Party has always known where it stood on this issue. It is on that side also. Then, certainly lurking in the background, are the Premiers of Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria.  Senator James  McClelland has tremendous respect for the Victorian Premier's power to attract voters because in Victoria recently he attracted a lot more votes than  Senator James  McClelland's Party could attract, although  Senator James  McClelland has said that the Premier's policies were really Labor's policies. 
Those Premiers are lined up behind  Mr Snedden,  whose Party stated where it stood on this issue, both before and after the election, but then we have coming in to add weight to the team the Premier of Western Australia,  Mr Tonkin,  the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  and the Premier of Tasmania,  Mr Reece.  Of course,  Mr Whitlam  can console himself because he will have standing firmly behind him to put a logical case.  Senator James  McClelland who no doubt, in opposition to the 3 Premiers from the 3 Labor States, will carry the day - according to his estimation of his own powers. Whether that will be convincing to the electors I would not know. The fact is that the sovereign States of Australia agreed to form a Commonwealth. The Commonwealth owes its origin and life to the agreement that was formed between the States and it operates under a Constitution which is fairly explicit. The spirit contained in the Constitution may not be so explicit, but if that spirit is denied or not recognised by any of the States of Australia or by the Commonwealth it is a breach of faith in the people who negotiated to form the Commonwealth in the beginning. 
There is nothing written in the Constitution or contained in the spirit behind it which suggests that the Commonwealth should ever be in a position to inflict its will arrogantly upon the sovereign States. It is amazing that this action was never attempted or thought of until a commercial proposition was found for an area over which there has not been what  taa  Commonwealth alone considers to be clear jurisdiction. It is unclear only because the States have ceded certain rights to the Commonwealth and have granted the Commonwealth certain controls over those offshore areas. It is argued now that, because they ceded powers that they conjointly and separately recognised should necessarily be held by the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth is in a position of power to extract from the States further concessions because commercial possibility are. involved. 
Of course, prior to Federation there could have been no doubt as to who controlled the offshore submerged lands of the States of Australia. There could have been no question whatever. There were only the States then. And there can be no doubt, as  Senator Durack  said, that certain areas have been ceded by the. States to the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth, willingly and after conferences between them, because the States recognised the necessity of taking this action themselves. But the Commonwealth now says that it will create a situation where the States will be forced to go to the High Court to establish the rights which the States at the moment clearly believe they already have. There is no doubt in the minds of any of the State Premiers about where the responsibilities and powers lie at the moment. It is only the Commonwealth which says that there, is a case that should be argued before the High Court and that because certain powers have already been ceded to the Commonwealth it should have still more powers. This sounds almost like a desperate bid. It is not justified by the origins of the Commonwealth and the fields of power that were ceded to it. 
We hear the argument that  Mr Whitlam  made a specific statement in an election campaign and, because he won the Federal election by half a length - it was not quite a photo finish, but it was getting pretty close to it - he has a complete mandate. The Premier of every one of the States has been elected with a clear mandate and he might have an entirely different policy. The Premiers too can claim that they have a mandate from the same people. 
That is right. It is said here that some honourable senators might be changing their point of view or establishing a point of view because they have to go back to the Party machine in their States to gain endorsement by their political parties to enable them to stand as candidates for reelection to the Parliament. That is supposed to be a terrible thing for them to have to do. I do not know. What would  Senator James  McClelland want them to do? From whom should they get a mandate? 
It would appear so. It appears that he believes that if  Mr Gorton  and  Mr Whitlam,  who are politically on different sides of the fence, have reached a particular conclusion, honourable senators, although elected to represent the rights of the States, should seek endorsement from those 2 honourable gentlemen rather than from the people who represent their political machinery in the States and who later will submit them to the will of the electors. That is, of course, so much arrogant poppycock from somebody whose estimation of his capacity is so great that he believes that he does not need the endorsement of the people in this democracy. The Democratic Labor Party has no doubt on this issue. We are sent here by a vote of the people in the States we represent. By no means all the people in those States vote for us. Nobody is here on a complete and absolute vote of the people of any State. We are here to represent the political thoughts and ideas of all sections of the political communities in the States, having gained sufficient votes in a poll that is more democratic than that which is conducted for other Parliaments throughout Australia, to act on behalf of people in the various States. On this issue the Premier of every State has interpreted the votes which were given to his party and which enabled him to form a government to mean that the people want that government to retain the powers which have always been considered since Federation to reside with the States and which, without question or doubt, resided in the hands of the States before Federation. In view of that responsibility the Democratic Labor Party most certainly is opposed to this legislation and most certainly is in favour of it being deferred until the beginnings of the Budget session to allow further talks to take place. 
That brings me to a final point that I want to make. I propose to be very brief. I cannot understand a philosophy of a political party which accepts that because  Mr Gorton  conferred with the States, that is the end of it. 
He failed to get any consideration for the ideas that he had. Either he was a bad negotiator or his ideas had no merit in the eyes of the States. It is said by the present Government that his ideas had great merit. However, after suggesting that  Mr Hamer  in Victoria stole all the ideas of the Labor Party, honourable senators opposite are now suggesting that the Government stole this idea from  Mr Gorton  because he had some difficulties in his own Party in establishing the idea. The Government got into the habit of supporting him on this issue in another place. Having stolen the idea from  Mr Gorton  the Government now says that he was the perfect negotiator. If he was the perfect negotiator, I cannot understand why honourable senators opposite were trying to get votes for  Mr Whitlam.  If  Mr Whitlam  cannot do a better job than  Mr Gorton  in negotiating, why were they crusading to have  Mr Whitlam  elected? They should have stuck to  Mr Gorton.  He was the beginning and the end, the greatest negotiator of all time! He failed to convince any one of the States that he was right on this issue, and it is now said that because he failed no one should have any doubts on the issue at all. 
If that is a suggestion made about the current Prime Minister, I think he should show a little more success in Australia before we send him off to Vietnam or anywhere else. In Vietnam he would have to negotiate, to some extent at least with the  President  of the United States of America. I understand that at the moment he is prostrating himself in order to get an invitation and that he has failed to get one. If the measure of his success, by humbling himself to get an official invitation to meet the  President  of the United States, is any criterion of his ability to succeed in international negotiations, I suggest that we should not send him to Vietnam or anywhere else. I would like to see him stay home and try, where  Mr Gorton  has failed, to convince the States that his ideas on this Bill are satisfactory to the people of Australia, as represented by the States. Then he can say that he is far superior to  Mr Gorton  at least in a race to convince the States on this matter. 
If he could negotiate that successfully, I would see nothing wrong with the Bill being proceeded with. If he could get one State on his side, there would be at least 10 senators who would have the all clear from their State to support the Bill. Not one State, irrespective of the fact that they are divided equally as far as the political party in power is concerned, is convinced that the power which is referred to in the Bill should be abrogated to the Commonwealth at this point. 
-As  Senator Wheeldon  made quite clear in his contribution to the debate, at a Labor Party conference  Mr Dunstan  moved an amendment that the States should be included. That conference rejected  Mr Dunstan's  proposition and insisted that it be the Commonwealth, and the Commonwealth alone. Although  Mr Dunstan  states that he does everything which the Labor Party commands him to do, he has gone tripping over to London to see whether he can get some support there for the point of view which he obviously holds. 
What is the mysterious power which is causing all these State Premiers of different political orientation to be so stubborn? Surely they must have some case. That case is answered by the Government saying: 'We will take the matter to the High Court, and we will get it decided'. But should it go to the High Court when there is such complete unanimity among the States that this power resides properly in them, has done so since the beginning of Australia as we know it today, has never resided in the Commonwealth in any shape or form and that the Commonwealth has exceeded its powers by endeavouring to legislate in the Commonwealth Parliament for the Commonwealth to have power which the States say that it does not have? I believe that there has never been such an issue in the history of the Commonwealth. The Senate should play the role for which it was created by the States, by agreement with the newly formed Commonwealth. The Senate is one of the integral and absolutely necessary parts of the Commonwealth. It ensures complete justice to all States, big and small alike. The Senate should not be divided along Party lines on this issue but should be 100 per cent in agreement with the States, which senators have an obligation to represent. We will support the amendment which will have the effect of deferring consideration of the Bill. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the Bill. It has been said that the amendment which will be moved in the Committee stage is unnecessary. To some extent one could almost suggest that the Bill is unnecessary. It sets up the Cities Commission and changes the principal Act, which was the National Urban and Regional Development Act, but it does nothing more than set up the Commission in place of the National Urban and Regional Development Authority and sets out who the commissioners will be, their period of appointment, remunerations, allowances, etc. It says nothing of the authority or the duties of the commissioners. They will inherit from the old Act all the things that they have to do. I suppose that the Parliament should be more concerned with what they have to do in the interests of the nation than with who they are, what they are paid or anything else. The new Government has seen fit to make this alteration, and we agree with it because we have always supported anything that will aid decentralisation in Australia. We are in favour of the new Government wanting to do it in a slightly different way, with the Commission instead of the Authority, wanting to appoint some new people, wanting to expand the Commission in some way and wanting to have a definite view on the development around the Albury area. The Government rightly has consulted the States concerned about it. We encourage the Government to do these things. 
We will support the amendment which will be moved in the Committee stage. I say that now to save me having to speak later. It deals only with the name of the Commission. We think that the name 'Cities and Regional Development Commission' is an even more appropriate name than the name which the Government has suggested in its amendment to the Act. It will take into account all the regional areas. The duties of the Commission, whether it is called the Cities Commission, as the Government desires it to be called, or the Cities and Regional Development Commission, will still be set out. If I were a member of the Government I would not be too sensitive about suggestions being offered by way of amendments to improve Bills. AH the brains do not reside on one side of the Parliament, whether it is the Government side or the Opposition side. There were many amendments to Bills introduced by the previous Government. Many were accepted in the spirit in which they were offered. I am certain that the mild amendment which suggests a change in the name of the Bill so that it will be more in line with the purpose for which it is designed, is offered to the Government in the best of good faith in an attempt to help it to succeed in governing this country in the interests of the people, which I have no doubt is its ambition. 
We agree with the amendment because it seems to us to describe more accurately what we want to see done by a government in this area. We would not like to see a government run away with the idea that its only concern should be making a bigger city out of places such as Albury and not taking into account what that development may do to towns which perhaps are small and which are situated already within a distance of 30, 40 or 50 miles of the city which is proposed to be developed. We want the Cities Commission to act as a regional body and to look at the whole area rather than just where the spotlight is showing, for publicity purposes, that we may be able to do it in this way rather than by the attempts which have been made in the past. Australia does not have  a  fortunate history of decentralisation. There could be many reasons for this, some of them perhaps beyond the powers of individuals, local councils, State governments or even Federal governments. 
I have always been very interested in this problem and I remember, when accumulating information of an industrial character on a project for which I was sent some 20 years ago to most countries of the world, looking at decentralisation particularly in the United States of America where I spent 3 months. In the history of the world the United States probably enjoyed the most rapid development prior to the discovery and establishment of our own country. I found in the United States things vitally different from the circumstances under which we were trying to attain a type of decentralisation which, to some extent, the United States already had attained. I know that the United States has its monsters such as New York, Los Angeles and other cities, but spread throughout the country are the types of centres that we would like to see in Australia. The United States, however, was discovered and developed at a slightly earlier period in time than was Australia - not all that much earlier but under completely different circumstances. Our great development has taken place in about the last 25 to 30 years since we began a very vigorous immigration policy and so increased rapidly the population of this country. Earlier immigration to this country took place, in an era of larger families which coincided with the tail end of the United States development. But the numbers of larger families tapered off and the population figure became static. That was an era, too, when to travel 25 to 30 miles was a hardship. When travelling a distance of 25 miles by horse and cart one had a day's travel in front of one, and if one wanted to travel 100 miles one had to plan weeks ahead and provide, a week for the journey. Our development and population increase has been so rapid particularly in the postwar years that today one can travel 100 miles in a motor car in a couple of hours. 
So the tendency to flock to the bigger cities is much more marked in this country, if only for the ease of transport alone, than in other parts of the world. For instance, many people in Cornwall, England, have never been to London, the great metropolis renowned throughout the world which attracts every tourist from Australia. Yet some people in Cornwall have never visited London despite the. short distance involved compared with distances in Australia. We accept that people fly a distance of 500 miles from Melbourne to Sydney for a business luncheon appointment and return to Melbourne that night. One will not find this ready acceptance of rapid transport in other parts of the world with the exception of the United States. 
Other factors come into this problem. I remember doing some research into the banking structure of the United States and noticing how specifically the banking structure that had developed there had accidentally assisted enormously the process of decentralisation. In the early days of their banking system when they were at last trying to get an honest greenback after they had had more than 100 financial collapses - and this is not generally understood except by those who have read the economic and monetary history of the USA - the American legislators passed special banking legislation which prevented banks operating outside the areas in which they were formed except those which had already developed intrastate throughout America. There were comparatively few. 
I think the Bank of America is one bank which has branches in different States. They developed a banking structure which permitted the local people in a town, say, taking one out of the hat, of the size of Kyneton in Victoria, to establish their own bank. That bank would be responsible in its own area. The banks had passed the stage at which they were issuing their own currency, a procedure which created so much confusion in the early days of the United States. The effect of a bank being formed by the local successful people in a city as small as Kyneton in Victoria is, was that those people were vitally concerned to lend anybody in their area money for the development of any industrial project. They would stake other people who had ideas or initiatives or were prepared to work to start a small industry. So industries grew in very small areas. 
But our country developed under a different banking structure and at a different time. If somebody has the initiative to form an industry and wants finance, as anybody who starts a small industry always does in the initial stages - business men will appreciate that - he must go to a bank which has ramifications throughout the Commonwealth and which already has provided huge overdrafts to great concerns which are producing, say, shoes in the big cities. The bank looks at the project, not as to whether it would be successful in the local area but as to whether it would be successful in the general competition of the nation's economy. Loans are not so easy for people to obtain in those circumstances, and certainly were not in this country in its developing stage to the same extent as they were in the United States. The net result of this United States system, with its financial and banking structure geared the way it was, was an enormous help to the decentralisation of industry in that country. Depite the fact that there are giant corporations in the United States, I recall that 20 years ago as a visitor to that country - visitors were usually shown over the giant enterprises - I was astounded to learn that about 80 per cent of the total production of the United States was produced by plants which employed fewer than 20 people. When one saw, say, the General Motors plant and others one gained the impression that it was through such plants that the United States produced all of its goods. This was not true. Decentralisation was achieved by this one aspect of the banking structure. 
I am merely citing this to show that in Australia we have had special difficulties which have not been faced by other nations because our type of development was peculiar to our country in the day and age in which we carried it out, and particularly because of the type of country that we had. The fast modern transport which was introduced into this country - a small and almost backward nation by comparison to some - emphasises that we were pioneers in the establishment of airlines within our own country. Indeed Qantas, one of the first international airlines to be established anywhere in the world, was establised here in Australia, a country which could not be considered to be an industrial giant by any stretch of the imagination. What I am saying is meant only to show that in this problem of decentralisation Australia has special problems and greater needs because of the paucity of our population and the geographical land mass which we have to control and develop, much of which, as we surely recognise, is even today still largely undeveloped to the extent it could be and probably never will be developed until the pressures of population force us to develop it. 
The population, as we all appreciate, will not develop naturally because of the circumstances of family life which have changed so much from what they were in the first stage of our development and since the major period of the massive development of the United States when that country had an immigration rate similar to the one we might be running now. The people who migrated to the United States from Europe usually had families, the minimum number of which ranged from say 4 to 6 and the maximum from perhaps 10 to 12. Those circumstances do not pertain today, and we cannot see that they are ever likely to recur in our type of society because of the knowledge that we have today. It is of no use our saying that we should reverse that trend. I do not believe that there is any real way in which that trend can be reversed. We must depend even more heavily on immigration. If we rely more heavily on immigration, we will want the proposed Cities Commission to assist in the necessary development. 
I hope that the proposed amendment to change the title of the Bill to 'Cities and Regional Development Commission Bill' will be accepted by the Government. I think it should be because that title more accurately describes the duties which were set out in the original legislation and which are not being changed at all in this amending legislation. I have been through this Bill and I cannot find anything in the amendments proposed to the original legislation that suggests any particular duties that are different from those prescribed in the original legislation with respect to the Commission that is to be appointed. The duties are imported from the original legislation. I believe that the breadth of the idea of regional development should be incorporated in this legislation. If we set out through this legislation to develop more cities of the Melbourne or Sydney type and have no concern for the effect that such cities may have on surrounding areas and their environment, we may only compound the problems that we face already rather than achieve what I believe the Government is honestly setting out to achieve by the introduction of this measure. 
I believe that the Government is to be congratulated for taking up the legislation which was passed last year by this Parliament when introduced by the previous Government. The new Government is trying to give that legislation some new life. It certainly will be giving the proposed Commission the opportunity for more activity, if it carries out the assurances, the promises and the agreements that are being forged with the States now. We want to encourage the Government in its endeavours. We will support its Bill. But we urge that the Government retain in this legislation the principles contained in the original Act, particularly those flowing from the use of the word regional' which indicates that the Commission will be interested in a broad area of development and not merely in creating new cities which in themselves may cause particular problems in regional areas. We support the legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister, prior to Christmas, instruct officials that social service payments to Aboriginals in outback areas should no longer be distributed partly in rations and the remainder in cash, but entirely in cash; if so, what effect has this decision had on the health of Aboriginals, particularly children, in the outback areas. 

 Senator CAVANAGH- The answer prepared in consultation with the Department of Social Security is: 
No. For some years now the Department of Social Security has been paying social service benefits to Aboriginals in outback areas direct to the recipients by cheque made payable to the beneficiary. There was, therefore, no requirement for such an instruction. The major effect of this mode of payment has been to enable Aboriginal recipients of social service benefits to exercise the same control over their use as other Australian citizens. It is not possible to assess what, if any, specific effect direct payment of these benefits has had on the physical health of Aboriginals or their children. 
I wish to speak to the Bill. The Democratic Labor Party is of course well known for its stand on home ownership. We take second place to none on that. On a personal note, I can say that many years ago some colleagues in the trade union movement and myself formed almost the impetus for the establishment of a co-operative housing society in the State which I represent. We believe that there are many forms and ways in which home ownership can be obtained and that people should be encouraged to accept the responsibility of home ownership rather than what sometimes appeals to be the easier but ultimately more expensive form of housing, certainly the least inspiring, that is of rental housing. But we recognise that there is a need within the community for houses built for rental purposes. We recognise too the need in a modern society for a State housing authority to do some of the management and planning for this type of dwelling which can be rented or purchased. But we do not necessarily subscribe to the philosophy that a State housing authority is the ideal provider of homes for either purpose, in particular for homes for ownership. 
We are conscious of the conflict that has taken place between the States, particularly the State of Victoria which had positive points of view, and the Commonwealth over this particular housing agreement. It is true that in the beginning the Commonwealth wanted to go a lot further than it has gone in this particular Bill. Indeed the terms that have now been suggested are more in accordance with the desires of the States than those suggested originally. However, they do not meet the requirements of the State Housing Authority in Victoria in particular. But overriding that consideration is the responsibility of an elected Government to govern according to its own philosophy. The philosophy of this Government apparently does not match my philosophy on home ownership. The Government considers it more important to meet the needs in other areas, although in some respects there are encouraging signs that it may be preparing to assist home ownership in ways other than through State housing authorities. 
There is nothing wrong with the ACTU or the trade unions running co-operative housing societies and sharing in the general schemes. In fact trade unions, having a community interest, are among the ideal bodies to run very successful co-operatives including housing co-operatives. The Federated Clerks Union of Australia of which I have been a member for many years runs a great number of housing co-operatives, particularly in Victoria. These co-operatives have enabled thousands of young people to purchase homes - they may never have got such an opportunity in other circumstances - at slightly lower rates of interest, though not low enough, than the current rates of interest. They have done so under supervision which has enabled them to avoid some of the traps into which a person without experience who goes into a straight housing deal can fall. I do not want to take away from the ACTU the right to run a co-operative housing society. However, as the trade union of trade unions the ACTU might over-involve itself in commercial enterprises. As a member of 2 trade unions part of my subscription fees ultimately goes to the ACTU and my counsel to the ACTU would be: 'Do not stretch yourself too far in areas in which you have not had experience. You may come a cropper'. However, as I am only one who contributes I do not think it is beholden upon me to attempt to change the policies of the ACTU. I do not take away from the ACTU, or from anyone else, the right to operate in this area if it is doing the right thing and helping people to obtain their own homes. Helping some people to accept the philosophy of wanting to buy their own homes should be a project which should be entered into by trade unions and other interested organisations as well. Some people lack the initiative to do so. They appear to be scared by the responsibility of what seems to be rather a big deal when they first consider purchasing a home. They are scared off to their own detriment later in life. 1 have noticed with some concern that the Government is taking a big interest from the wrong aspect, it seems to me, in credit foncier and other schemes, which assist people towards home ownership. We will be discussing at a future stage a Bill that the Government has introduced. It must be mentioned in any discussion of housing when we are trying to measure the depth of the general philosophy of this Government, now charged with the responsibility to govern, towards housing in general. The Government has introduced its young couples home purchase plan in which it is to sell housing certificates. Those certificates when they mature will be of great benefit to those young people who invest in them. They will be of greater benefit to parents who have the foresight to invest in them as gifts for their children long before the children have reached maturity. Great assistance in home ownership could flow from this same Government which seeks to limit in its State housing agreement the percentage of homes which will be made available for purchase. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is not prepared to support the amendment that has been foreshadowed by  Senator Rae.  By this we do not say that the Federal Government is right in seeking to impose its will on those States which have not gone along completely with the new agreement. But we are conceding to the elected Government the right to have a philosophy different from our own. We are prepared to offer the Government advice. The Government should, I believe, take cognisance of one of the pleas made by  Senator Webster,  namely, that whatever may be the purpose for which a house is built by a State housing authority, and whatever may be the required period for which rental must be paid on that house before its purchase can be proposed - let us assume 5 years - after that period the person renting the property should be conceded the right to purchase it if he wishes so to do. 
Anybody who has traced the history of housing from the bad old days of landlordism will recognise that families can become attached to the area and the surroundings in which they live as well as the friendships formed in their district. If a family has lived in a housing commission home in a certain suburb of one of our principal cities for 4 years, 5 years or 6 years; if the children of that family have grown up in the companionship of neighbouring children; if that family has reached the stage at which it may wish to venture into home ownership, it should not be mandatory upon that family to pull up its roots from that district and move somewhere else in order to buy a home because the law makes it impossible for that family to buy the dwelling in which it has been living for several years. 
The provisions of the agreement could have a cumulative effect. State housing authorities could be powerless to sell a home to a person whose family has been living in that home for 4 years, 5 years or 6 years because the 30 per cent of family dwellings built by the State housing authority had been absorbed already in sales. I draw this matter to the attention of the Government because I do not believe that part of its philosophy is that people in this situation should not be able to purchase homes in which they have lived for several years. I appeal to the Government to give this matter consideration and consider future action on it, if it is not possible to correct that situation by amendment to this legis lation. These matters ase always fluid. These agreements can always be renegotiated. These problems can always be given attention. 
I urge upon the Government that philosophy' which emanates particularly from the remarks made by  Senator Webster  who said that here we do not want purely and simply a figure deal of 30 per cent and 50 per cent. The fact that those percentages have been reached is no reason why they should be rigid and no allowance made for important human factors which may arise as time goes on. 
The Government of Victoria is particularly displeased with the 30 per cent/ 50 per cent principle. I believe that it has threatened that it will not accept the ultimate proposal. Whether it carries out that threat would be its own responsibility. A great deal of difference does not exist between 30 per cent and 50 per cent when the philosophy involved in this matter is considered. If the difference of 20 per cent is to be made up by this Government offering assistance in other areas of home ownership, I see no great housing crisis resulting because of the terms of the proposed agreement. I see no great injustice to those people who wish to become home owners. Indeed, I think it would be far better if the money were made available through the channels of private housing rather than purchases through government housing authorities which have been established really to provide emergency types of accommodation. 
These authorities when first established were to provide emergency types of accommodation for those people who were in a situation in which they just could not obtain houses of their own anywhere or where the purchase of a home was completely beyond their reach. Those people were living either with in-laws or in slum situations, rooms or accommodation such as that. This is no way for young people particularly to start a marriage. I have been gravely concerned for many years in trying to assist young people who, in the early stages of marriage with perhaps one or two children, are forced to live with in-laws. Perhaps some of the couples have married close to the birth of their first child. The great tragedy arises from the attempts made to blend the personalities of all the people living in the one dwelling. The situation arises because these young couples through the disadvantageous start to their married life are not in a position to obtain accommodation anywhere else. lt is of no use talking to young people in that situation about home ownership. As to the renting of housing commission homes, they reach the stage of putting their names on a housing list and waiting for years for a housing commission home. When after a period of years they finally qualify for such a home, no further requirement remains for the home because the marriage has ceased to exist as a result of the circumstances that prevailed early in married life and the type of housing available to them at that stage. Any possibility of the marriage being successful has gone. Many such marriages break up with the result that the requirement for a house disappears. 
It seems to me that there is an enormous shortage of houses for rental as well as a shortage of houses for purchase. The provision that State housing authorities may allocate up to 30 per cent of their dwellings for home ownership purposes is not far short of requirements. I would like to see the percentage raised. My Party would like to see the percentage increased. But the philosophy of the elected Government does not lean that way at present. We do not think that this is a question on which we should ignore what this Government is prepared to do for housing in other areas, but we urge upon the Government the absolute necessity for it, because of the restrictions that may creep into home ownership in this area, to redouble its efforts to make money available in other areas for the purchase of homes by those people who are prepared to accept the responsibility, which is better from the point of view of the nation, of owning their own homes, and so achieve a better way of life and enjoy a greater potential for a successful family life. This is so important not only to the parents and children in a family but also to any government which may need to meet commitments arising from those problems which can develop out of bad family backgrounds and which can flow very often from the simple fact that people do not have the opportunity to own their own home. 'In presenting those views to the Government, I advise it that the Australian Democratic Labor Party on this occason will support the Bill. 
Although I have not had the time to examine these amendments extensively, it would appear that the time of the Senate was not wasted in carrying the amendments it did at the Committee stage when considering the Bill. Information that we did not have previously has been brought to light, and I feel that the explanation given by the House of Representatives for disagreeing with the first amendment seems to be quite reasonable. 
Whether the same explanation would have been given if the amount proposed had been greater than $2m, I do not know. Perhaps the reason for rejection was a weakness in the amendment itself. Most of the arguments put forward when the figure was fixed as low as $2m would not have been quite so valid if the figure proposed had been higher. 
The other proposition in relation to a common carrier also brings to light information which we did not have previously. I still have some misgivings about the absolute authority that has been given to the Pipeline Authority. I accept the proposition at this point of time so that we can see how it works because the House of Representatives has put forward some arguments that indicate clearly that if the Authority took over a project at a particular stage it could have some obligations to carry out. I am in total agreement with the amendment that was introduced into the House of Representatives by the Government. I am sure the House of Representatives is glad that it had the opportunity to reconsider the measure so that it could insert such a very necessary clause into the Bill. We will be supporting the proposition that these amendments be accepted. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the general intentions of this Bill. It is true that Australia has had a long and vigorous program of migration. By comparison with the impetus given to that program in recent years, at present our efforts seem to have tapered off. By that I mean that the rate of migration when Australia had a population of between 8 million and 10 million people was greater than it is today. With a population of more than 12 million people today one would think that we ought to be better able to absorb a much higher rate of migration than we have sustained in the past. But we have not maintained that rate of growth in more recent years. One of the bigger difficulties has been that we have failed to attract from the countries of the world that have come to know more peaceful times, the same numbers of people that we attracted in the immediate post-war years. True it is that we concentrated on giving some precedence to those people from the countries from which most of our own ancestors came. In expanding a country by an immigration policy there is some wisdom in that procedure because integration is so much easier where the cultural backgrounds of the people involved are identical or almost identical. However, we have become enriched too by the fact that circumstances forced us outside that ambit and we began to attract into Australia people from other European countries who had differing cultures from those of the people with whom we had a natural allegiance. 
We spread that policy even further. In recent years there has been more tolerance towards immigration from countries where the cultural background is distinctively different. I refer to the inflow of slightly increased numbers of people from Asian areas. I think that those who have studied the problem of a developing nation such as ours in regard to immigration have always realised the necessity for a gradual change along the lines of what has been happening in Australia. The country at large might not have appreciated the necessity of this policy as quickly as would have been advisable in the interests of Australia, lt is still true today that a great number of people from Great Britain would be the ideal migrants for Australia if they were desirous of coming here. They are not. and we are forced in our attempts to achieve the rate of immigration to Australia which is the minimum that we can sustain because of the falling birth rate in Australia, to resort to programs of persuasion which have not engendered the desire to come to Australia into the people who have the capacity to tackle the immense task of starting life in a new country. We have not attracted those types of people. Rather we have persuaded others who might not really in themselves have been desirous of migrating. They might have felt that they were driven to migrate and might not have had the spirit which is necessary to tackle life in a new country. 
Let us face it; we are all human beings. There needs to be some aspect of necessity behind one's wrenching his roots out of the ground of one country and going to another country to establish a new entity. Very often it takes some dire necessities to do this. Those factors have been missing recently. In Great Britain and to a developing degree throughout Europe, enormously increased prosperity succeeded the immediate introduction of the European Economic Community. This new economic world is facing new tests and today is not as certain of its future as it perhaps seemed to be 4 or 5 years ago, and we may again see. circumstances in which migrants from European countries in particular and from Great Britain may be just as easy to attract to Australia as they have been in the past. 
It is true that Australia has turned its back - not completely but certainly we have not made it as easy as we could have made it - on many people who are driven by this aspect of necessity to change their background. I refer to the people, in some of the areas in the Pacific Ocean, our near neighbours. I refer to places like Western Samoa, Tonga, Fiji. Particularly in the case of Western Samoa those places are becoming very heavily overpopulated. For this reason alone a compelling need is imposed upon the citizens of those countries to leave their own country and to seek somewhere else to live. This compulsion does not exist in Europe to the same degree today. 
I have long counselled that we should be looking for immigrants from this area of the Pacific. In those, countries there are none of the factors which should inhibit us in broadening our immigration policies. Those factors are the disturbing ones of the capacity of the new people .arriving at an adult age to be integrated into a new society. Those who have studied the history of the Polynesian people, and particularly the Western Samoans, would very rapidly appreciate the fact that for purposes of integration this race probably has more qualities than has any other race. They would probably disappear into an allAustralian community in a far lesser time than it takes those people whose backgrounds are different and who do not have the same compulsion. I do not know, but I think that over the years we could well have developed a program, for particularly young people from those areas, to come here to be voluntarily trained, as we have trained people from all over Asia, in various professions and skills. A proportion of them could then be granted the right to stay here if they so desired, providing they had the acquiescence of their own government. Over the years this would build a small minority of those people to be integrated into our society. They would come here young and be trained in our ways, trained to accept the responsibility of adjusting to an economic world different from the one they left. We would probably develop only a small segment of our community in this way because Samoa could not supply the number of people Australia requires. However, small though it may be, it would be an excellent segment of people who would be integrated rapidly into the total Australian community. 
Of course, this Bill deals with the migrant after he has gone through this developing phase of deciding to come to Australia, whatever may be the reason, and adapting and adjusting himself and getting to the stage where he is seeking to become a complete member of this country and to accept naturalisation. Naturalisation itself, of course, is a great privilege and a great responsibility. It is a 2-way street that acts well for the new citizen and for the rest of us. We should make the integration complete. Not many people in the world do this to the same extent as we do. I have argued with Japanese friends who have queried our immigration policies and have wrongly designated them as a White Australia policy. Although this term has some accuracy in description, the policy was never that in fact. It would be completely impossible even upon marriage for an Australian such as myself, were I free to do so, to marry a Japanese woman to gain Japanese citizenship. Australia extends citizenship to all those who marry Australian citizens. We allow them to share not only our personal lives, but also the national life of this country by granting to them, if there is no real impediment, naturalisation and citizenship of Australia. I am glad that is the position. I do not think that there should be any impediment in the way of making the integration complete and absolute. If we believe in immigration at all we do not believe in it just as a way of exploiting other people by persuading them to come here and to give us their all and not to give them anything in return. We should believe in complete integration and complete sharing, both today and in the future, of their families with our families in the potential of this Australia of ours. These things are expressed, of course, in this Australian Citizenship Bill. 
I do not know that perseverance with the ideas of Commonwealth can go much beyond what is expressed in this piece of legislation. The Commonwealth is not quite what it was. Anybody who does not face this fact sensibly is not facing the facts of 1973. We cannot live in 1973 with a 1950 philosophy. We have to move with things as they are happening throughout the world. The Commonwealth ties still exist probably only because they were framed quite deliberately in the loose way they are and because they are not as binding as they once were. This is to the great credit of Great Britain - the country to which we owe our origin - because it has been wise enough to see these things and to take steps to move with the times  p.s  they have changed and as people's thinking in these areas has changed. 
I am glad to see in this Bill that provisions have been made to cover countries in the Pacific, such as Fiji, Tonga and Western Samoa. I think that is very good. The Bill covers many areas that needed to be improved. I think that they are being improved in this Bill. Of course, the Bill contains contentious clauses, as do all pieces of legislation. The contention surrounding those clauses seems to revolve around the arguments that were advanced in another place to the effect that not sufficient emphasis is placed on encouraging British people to come here. I dismiss those arguments. I think that we have gone along those lines to the fullest extent that is possible. To oversell" our country to people in another country is good neither for the people who come here nor for the country which sponsors them to come here. I am one of the those who believe that the time has arrived when we should taper off this overselling. We do not want to have coming here people who no sooner do they arrive than they are reluctant to stay. I am not suggesting for a moment that that is true of all British migrants. We want to have coming here people who have that great burst of enthusiasm that will enable them to tackle the enormous problems involved in starting life in a new country and integrating their families into our community so that they will become fellow Australians along with all of us. 
I refer now to the matters which will be dealt with at the Committee stage by way of a suggested amendment to the Bill. Perhaps if I refer at this stage to the clause which the amendment will seek to amend and indicate the attitude of my Party it will save miking  2  speeches on the one subject. We are disturbed about the suggested change in the oath of allegiance. We recognise that one cannot be completely happy about asking a new citizen of this country to forswear all allegiance other than allegiance to this country. That is very difficult to do. In order to understand this, we have only to put ourselves in the position of being asked at some time to forswear all allegiance to Australia, which is the 
Country  in which we were born. I would find it much easier to forswear any allegiance to the old country, Great Britain - my ancestors were born in Cornwall - than to Australia, because this is the only country I have ever known. If I were to go to Great Britain and be asked for forswear ali allegiance to Australia, I would have grave doubts about doing that. 1 have some sympathy with the idea that we should try to find another way to emphasise that the predominance of allegiance and responsiblity must be to the country to which one goes. It cannot be foreseen that citizens who come to Australia from other countries must necessarily have a clash of allegiance if they maintain - and they cannot deny this - a natural feeling of allegiance to the country from which they come. It  may  not always operate that way. Perhaps it will be better if I speak of my ancestors rather than of anybody else's in case I offend other people. Many of the people who came to Australia from Great Britain in the early days of the establishment of this country might have been very happy to forswear their allegiance to Great Britain because of the circumstances in which they were sent to Australia. People were sent to this country, as a penal colony, for breaking laws which I do not believe many people today would say were just and fair laws, and I do not think that many people today would say that just and fair punishment was meted  out  to the people who committed offences in Great Britain and were sent here. In those circumstances it might not be so difficult to forswear one's allegiance. 
But today we have people coming to Australia from many countries and they feel just the same about those countries as we feel about Australia. It seems that there is a better way of doing this than by saying that before people swear allegiance to Australia they should forswear all allegiance to their home country. If the oath of allegiance could be worded in such a way as to be legal - I leave it to the legal eagles to do this - and to suggest that people should forswear all allegiance to any other country where there is conflict with Australia, I think it would be better than to use the terms of the oath of allegiance which are  used  now and which are suggested in the proposed amendment; and it would be better than to leave out the renunciation  of  other allegiance altogether, as is proposed by the Government. 
I move on to the other contentious part  of  the clause which the amendment will seek to amend. This is the reference to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second of Great Britain and Queen of Australia. I believe that the Australian people would want Her Majesty's^ title to appear  in  full at this time. I under- stand the argument has been used that the._ words suggested in the amendment are not, legal because Queen Elizabeth the Second of Great Britain is not designated in Australia today as Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia; that Australia had not been founded in the days of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth! the First and, obviously it would be very difficult for  Her  Majesty to be Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia. I suggest in all seriousness to  Senator Davidson  and to his  Party  that we have to be sure that the Act will not, need a further amendment regarding this designation. If the amendment were carried and it became part of the Act, the alteration which I am suggesting could be achieved very simply by changing the designation in the amendment from 'Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia' to 'Queen Elizabeth the Second" - which is her right and correct title; she is Queen Elizabeth the Second of Great Britain - 'Queen of Australia'. I suggest that we could insert the word 'Queen' after the words Queen Elizabeth the Second,' and before the words 'of Australia'. That  would  then give her  a  dual recognition in the oath of allegiance. She would be given the title which is her own by right. I understand that most probably she will be designated in this way by the Government when it amends other Acts. It would save some inconvience  if  that suggestion were accepted by  Senator Davidson.  I suggest that his amendment could be altered by inserting the word 'Queen' before the words 'of  Australia-'. 
Possibly it is anticipating what might happen in other areas, but we would make this Act quite valid and sound and it would not need further amendment by this Parliament. If it were done that way, I think that it would preserve in its entirety what  Senator Davidson  is trying to do without including an inaccurate designation of the Monarch. In my view, it is inaccurate to refer to  Her  Majesty as Queen Elizabeth the Second of Australia. She is Queen Elizabeth the Second of Great Britain. We recognise her as Queen of Australia, and I understand that the Government does not propose to do anything other than so to recognise her in the future. I have been given to understand that that is how the Queen herself wants to be known, and we should always be sensitive about these things. I believe that we, as a country, are desirous of preserving these ties. I do not believe that this proposal would be in any way offensive to any new citizen to Australia, no matter from where he comes. This is how we regard ourselves, and as these people want to be Australians shoulder to shoulder with us they too will regard themselves in this way and will give allegiance to the Queen as we have given allegiance to her. If we accept my proposal I think this is what they will do. 
I know that the approach of the Government of today is different from that of the Government of yesterday. We respect that. We are trying to make suggestions which will help the Government of today and those who formed the Government of yesterday to see this Bill through similar eyes because we feel that in tackling a re-organisation of legislation such as this it would be a constructive move to bring it up to date, to make it more efficient and to make it easier to offer citizenship to the new people of Australia - a citizenship which we all want them to have. We want them to want to have citizenship, too. This is even more important than wanting them to join us as Australian citizens. 
We will support the Bill in the Committee stage when the amendment is moved. Having made my suggestion to the Opposition in relation to its proposed amendment I shall not speak again on this Bill. I signify, that irrespective of whether the Opposition changes its proposed amendment in accordance with the qualification which I have put, we will support the amendment. 
asked the Minister repre  senting the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
What was the date of  Dr Cairns'  public criticism of the United States of America's bombing of Hanoi in late December. 
What was the date in last December on which  President  Nixon announced contract arrangements for extra dried milk imports and did Australia share in these extra imports. 
Did Australian officials attempt to obtain a share for Australian exporters in the United States' market. 

 Senator WRIEDT - The Minister for Overseas Trade has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
28 December 1972. 
30 December 1972. The Proclamation, which followed an apparently lengthy examination by United States officials of proposals by both importers and domestic United States dairy industry interests, was presumably based on an official recommendation to the  President.  It provided for additional imports of 25 million lb of skimmed milk powder for a temporary period ending 15 February 1973. 
It can reasonably be assumed that any recommendation to the  President  would have been finalised at least some days in advance of the Proclamation. It was made clear by the United States Secretary of Agriculture, Earl L. Butz, in a Press statement dated 30 December, that a global increase in the quota, to be filled on a first-come-first-served basis, was decided on because there was an urgent need for immediate additional supplies of skimmed milk powder for the United States market. 
Australia did share in the increased quota, to the extent of 336,000 lb. 
Australian officials did attempt both before and after the Proclamation, to ensure that Australia shared in the increased quota, and not without success (see (2) above). It was not possible to have further quantities of the Australian product entered before the temporary quota was filled on 15 January 1972, a month ahead of the deadline. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What has been the result of the 30 per cent reduction in retail prices by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission initiated in February 1972. 
Have sales increased or decreased. 
Did the reduction in prices lead to any appreciable increase in the Commission's share of the market of veterinary vaccines. 
Did the drastic price reduction increase or decrease the profitability of the Commission in this period of improvement in the agricultural economy. 

 Senator DOUGLAS McCLELLAND- The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
(2) (3) and (4) The retail prices of veterinary vaccines were reduced by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission in February 1972 in the face of competition from a foreign based manufacturing company which offered its products at heavily discounted prices, with extended credit terms, more favourable than in the country of manufacture. Although this reduction in price resulted in significant increases in sales and an increase in the share of the market of these products, profitability was only marginally increased. 
asked the AttorneyGeneral, upon notice: 
As some of the documents seized in the raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization were in the Croatian language, will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate who were the interpreters employed to examine the documents. 
From where were the interpreters obtained. 
When did the examination of the documents begin. 
On what date were persons not previously having access to the documents granted access. 

 Senator MURPHY- The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
and (4) No documents were seized in my visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organization. The documents that were examined had been translated previously. 
When this legislation was last before the Senate I was in the process of answering a suggestion that had been made by  Senator Murphy.  He suggested that every member of this chamber should vote for the proposition as it stood merely because - he quoted from the political arguments of his own Party during the Federal election campaign - of what his Party had said. It had said: 
We will pass the Death Penalty Abolition Bills which were passed by the Senate in June 1968 and March 1972 but which, in each case, were shelved by the Liberal ministry in the House of Representatives. 

 Senator Murphy had suggested to this chamber that virtually nobody had the right to suggest amendments or to propose any alteration to the Bill because the Government had obtained a mandate from the people by winning the election and that the people of this country had given an instruction that the Bills should be passed in exactly the form that had been argued in the Senate and carried by the Senate on the previous occasions. I was drawing attention to the fact that that did not mean that senators sitting in this chamber representing different States were not even bound to present the point of view that seemed to be paramount in the State which each represented, whatever may have been the result of the Federal election campaign. Indeed, to substantiate my argument in that area, since this matter was adjourned an election has been held in Victoria, the State which I represent here. 
 This question was canvassed by both of the parties involved. One party supported the retention of the death penalty; the other sought its abolition. Let me make it imperfectly clear that I am amongst the abolitionists. But the party that was in favour of the retention of the death penalty at that time - it may be in the process of changing its attitude now, but in the course of the election campaign it had a clear policy which it had enunciated and fought for on the platform at that election and at every State election for the last 15 years - won that election in Victoria by an overwhelming majority. It would be just as illogical to suggest that I should stand here and reverse my attitude, taken when this Bill was before us earlier, because of the vote in Victoria, as it was for  Senator Murphy  to suggest that we should not even discuss the Bill or the amendment. 
I am making my stand on this question perfectly clear. I am for the abolition of the death penalty as we have known it for some considerable time. The application of the death penalty has not been very stringently controlled. Most death penalty sentences have been remitted and varied to a lesser penalty. But the death penalty has stood in the law. We are discussing at the moment the proposition that as far as the Commonwealth is concerned it shall not appear in the law. I am in favour of that proposition in the sense that although it has applied in the past it should not continue. But I am not foolish enough to join those who think that in an area which is as broad as this one, with respect to laws which have stood for so many centuries, those laws should be subject to no alteration because they have stood for so long. I do not accept that argument. Nor do I stand for the proposition that because a change is desired the laws must switch from black to white or from white to black. 
I realise that whatever the theories, arguments and statistics that may be proposed and put forward by anyone as proof that one argument is paramount over another argument with respect to a change of this magnitude in this law, there must be areas in respect of which all of us have grave fears and doubts as to what may be the result of such a change in the law. I have looked at this matter in terms of crimes that are being committed today but which when we first discussed the abolition of this penalty - I first discussed it in a State Parliament some 20 years ago - were not the sorts of crimes with which we were acquainted. I refer here to the area of terrorism, of hijacking and affairs of a military sense where members of the armed forces are subject to a military code, in the course of war, which legislatively is held to be paramount over the civil code. I believe that in time of war those penalties too should be retained in respect of the civilian population for crimes in the areas that are set out specifically in  Senator Greenwood's  amendment. 
Whilst I agree with the broad concept of the abolition of the death penalty and I have so voted on the motion for the second reading of this Bill, I am for this amendment which holds in abeyance and retains the death penalty only in a very limited sense. I refuse to shut my eyes to what happened at the Olympic Games when Jewish athletes together with innocent bystanders were slaughtered. This act of military aggression and terrorism was judged by the civil code. The perpetrators of that crime were apprehended and dealt with under the civil code by which they were held in gaol for a sufficiently long time to allow their supporters who were organised in a military sense to perpetrate even more vicious and murderous crimes against innocent people with the purpose of gaining the release of those who were obviously guilty of the act of callous destruction of innocent human lives - the lives of people who had nothing to do with the purpose in which those terrorists were interested. 
Whatever statistics may show, I must admit that I believe in that sense in the retention of the death penalty as this must make the perpetrators of such crimes as organised execution of innocent people to gain a military purpose aware of the fact that they cannot succeed. Almost inevitably, they must be apprehended and in their turn, with the retention of the death penalty .for that crime at least, they must be subject to the very sentence which they themselves have passed upon people who are innocent of any crime other than the crime of being a good runner or a good sportsman eligible to represent a nation at the Olympic 'Games. This is a concept of crime which has not been introduced into or faced before in discussions on this matter. 1 have heard these discussions so often. They have been discussions on the basis of the most horrible and repulsive sorts of civil crimes and the destruction of innocent human life in the worst possible circumstances. I do not think that we should discuss a philosophy such as that in those circumstances. 
But we should not blind ourselves to events that are occurring around us. I refer here to attempts to hijack aircraft sometimes for the same purpose as that for which athletes were slaughtered at the Olympic Games, and at other times merely as a facet of organised crime to gain huge sums of money by this form of blackmail of holding the lives of hundreds of innocent people in danger as the criterion against which people who are asked to pay blackmail may measure that which is sought. We have reached the stage of civilisation where inevitably a decision on such a blackmail threat falls down on the side of parting with the money. But we must face, too, that such a decision inevitably creates a still further and greater impetus for people to plan and to commit such crimes. If no death penalty applies to crimes of that character, I am afraid that there is an encouragement for people to so involve themselves in such crimes. Only the most extreme of all penalties will act as a deterrent to such crimes. 
I am worried about that situation. One of the propositions that makes me opposed to a community such as ours exercising the right in law to invoke the death penalty under any circumstances, is not a feeling for the perpetrator of such a crime or some feeling for the innocent relatives who may have a deep regard for the perpetrator and who will suffer for as long as the penalty hangs over his head awaiting execution. I take it a step further. As long as such a penalty can be invoked we must have somebody to carry it out. What do we do to the executioner whom we appoint once, twice, three or four times to execute people on behalf of society? There are many cases in the history of British law in which the hangman or the executioner ultimately has himself destroyed life against the law because he has become accustomed to taking human life. 
This, too, is one of the arguments that turns me against those who argue for the abolition of the death penalty but who argue in favour of the right of the mother - because she is a mother and who may feel she may be inconvenienced even by a pregnancy - to take the life of her own child. That child is not judged by a jury, society or anyone else; it is judged by the mother in a fit of desperation or merely in a fit of consideration solely of her convenience and circumstances in life. That mother, these people argue, should be given the right by society to take life. What should we do to her and to those whom she engages to end that life? Society has an enormous responsibility in this respect. It is a responsibility that society must accept. 
Crimes of terrorism and hijacking have recently been introduced into the scheme of things. It is to be hoped that no country Wi ever again become involved in war, but one cannot deny the possibility. The world must protect itself from those who would destroy not only our present form of society itself but also large numbers of the people who belong to it. We have an obligation, however, repulsive it may be, to accept responsiblity for punishing with extreme penalties people who will indulge in those sorts of crimes. There is plenty of evidence that people are quite prepared to commit these crimes. It is only in those areas that I stand, as does the amendment, in favour of a refusal to alter the law completely. The law should be altered at a slower pace and not in so sweepingly a manner as to take away from us the responsibility of doing anything we can to curb what is becoming all too prevalent a practice in the societies of the world today. 
I have already referred to the slaughter at the Olympic Games of Jewish athletes who were guilty of no other crime than that they were capable of representing their nation in a world sporting arena. Those who were killed subsequently in an attempt to release the perpetrators of the crime would not have been killed if the crime had been placed in what I consider to be its proper category, that is, a military offensive which should have been judged almost upon the spot. The perpetrators of the crime should have had to suffer the extreme penalty of the law and should not have been placed in a position where they could be rescued by those who were prepared to go to the extreme limit of murdering innocent people. 
I am clearly against what was formerly conceded as being a ground for the retention of the death penalty and I believe that it is time our civilisation moved towards its aboliton; but I am not prepared to move so quickly towards its abolition as to abdicate completely our responsibility to retain some control over the incidence of the extreme types of crimes I have mentioned. Indeed, that is what the amendment to this clause of the Bill seeks to do. I believe that it is a reasonable proposition. I believe that it is in conformity with my support for the general abolition of the death penalty as we have known it in the past. I hope that the Senate will consider this measure as being a serious one and not just one in relation to which we declare that we are either on one side or the other, giving no recognition to the events that are taking place around us. 
I wish to address myself to the amendment mainly because of the arguments which have been produced in the debate. I made clear my attitude on the abolition of the death penalty when I spoke during the second reading debate. I agree with  Senator Webster  that it is not possible for the matter to be all black and white. I believe in the abolition of the death penalty as it has applied in the past. I voted for the second reading of the Bill, but if we remove something that has stood in the law for so long we should, as provided in the amendment, retain the necessary precaution at least for a period in these very special areas, that is, the capacity of society to exact the extreme penalty, particularly in relation to crimes of this type that have as their basis the terrorising of the whole community. Firstly, I disagree with the arguments advanced by my colleague  Senator Byrne  who suggested that if we retain the death penalty for the crime of hijacking we will force these people to use their enormous ingenuity to find an even more shocking crime to perpetuate upon the community. If we accept that argument we should abolish all laws and all penalties, otherwise we would be forcing people to use their ingenuity to commit more shocking crimes. He suggested that we should not impose the death penalty on somebody who secretly and deliberately poisoned the whole of a city by poisoning, say, the source of Melbourne's water supply because he wants to be more ingenious than the perpetrator of the crime of hijacking an aircraft. 
I turn to  Senator Poyser's  argument that the death penalty does not in any circumstances act as a deterrent. That is an opinion and a view which is often expressed. I do not share it. I believe that the death penalty does not act as a deterrent to the man who kills on impulse or who kills without intent almost, but I am certain that if a man is planning the awfully intricate details that are necessary to hijack an aircraft he at some stage gives some cognisance to what will happen if he is caught. If this were not so, why do so many habitual criminals - housebreakers and burglars - never carry a gun? They know that the penalty is far greater if they are armed at the scene of a housebreaking or a burglary. So they never go armed. They take cognisance of the penalty. 
Not being a criminal, I cannot speak with authority.  Senator Poyser  suggested that nobody would take into account the penalty that is to be imposed upon him. I do not accept that argument. Even if the retention of the death penalty deterred only one man from slaughtering innocent people in the process of hijacking an aircraft, I think it is wise chat the penalty be retained. I consider that one innocent life is far more valuable and of greater sanctity than that of the person who can be proven in a court of law to have killed somebody in the process of a hijacking enterprise, whether it is for capital gain or to exert a political or a terrorist pressure on the community to attain anything at all. 
I do not agree with the idea that because one is for the abolition of the death penalty in the law as we have known it in the past it cannot be retained in certain specified areas and that there cannot be resource to it in extreme cases. If that were not so, why do we parcel the crime of murder into different degrees? Why do we have a difference between the crime of manslaughter, when there is no intent, and the crime of murder? Of course, we have that in the law now and it works reasonably successfully. Those innovations in the law took place over the centuries. It is not to be said that the law has been destroyed because different degrees of murder have been brought into the administration of the law. In some countries, for particular crimes' of passion, there is compassion in the administration of the law. A man might murder somebody who is destroying his whole family structure or who is caught in an illicit relationship with his wife. In some countries the extreme penalty is not exacted in those circumstances. I stand for that, and I stand for the alleviation of this penalty for many of the crimes for which the death sentence is imposed and is almost automatically never carried out. 
I do not stand for the idea, as I said during the second reading debate, that we should abolish the penalty in some of the instances that have been brought to our attention. Certain international political crimes are almost military actions and sometimes are military actions. Should we, as the Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  suggested, differentiate between these crimes and not make them civil offences? Perhaps some agreement under international law is the only solution. But we have not got that solution yet. What would happen if we conducted the Olympic Games in Australia and found that some people, for the purpose of a political struggle in another country, slaughtered other people who were guilty of no crime except that of being leading athletes in their own country and having no interest in the politics of even their own country? What would happen if those athletes were slaughtered by armed brigands? Should not those brigands be immediately arrested, tried under the terms of a military court and, if found guilty, executed?- Only in recent months innocent people were killed in order to obtain the release of other people who had committed the crime of brutal murder in the course of what was almost a military action. 
I maintain that until we find a better solution there is at least the curbing influence of knowing that people so minded cannot escape with their lives when they perpetrate a crime such as that. That does not make me a hater of mankind or a supporter of the death penalty as we have known it. I remind  Senator Poyser  that 1 voted for the motion for the second reading of the Bill and that I believe in the abolition of the death penalty as we have known it. However, the crime of hijacking which is being dealt with in the debate on this clause is in a special category. We are not hideous hangmen simply because we propose to retain the power of society to exercise this penalty in an extreme area such as this. I do not think it is fair to level that accusation against  Senator Webster  in this instance. I believe that we have to suggest some other alternative in order to deter criminals. 

 Senator Murphy said to the Senate that he did not consider hijacking to be as serious an offence as selling dope - heroin and cocaine - to young people. I differ with him. At least we are trying to teach young people not to become involved in this traffic. If they do become involved in it, there is some measure of self-involvement. However much drug users may become unable to control their desires for drugs, they are warned that it is habit forming. We try to deter that crime in advance by educating the people who may become involved. That does not mean that I would be merciful towards a drug pusher. A person who merely buys a ticket to travel in an aircraft has no choice. He is not involved in any way at all. He may be the father of a large family which is dependent for their success in life and for their future on his efforts and so on, yet he is destroyed. He may be a member of the crew earning his living, doing his job. He is the same as a man who is innocently working as a plumber, a tram conductor or in any other occupation. Somebody might walk into a tram and threaten to shoot the conductor to get a ransom from the tramways board. Is this not exactly the same position as that outlined in the proposed amendment? I know that  Senator Poyser  has been intimately associated with the tramway industry. I am certain that the honourable senator would be most horrified, in the interests of his fellow workers, if somebody perpetrated a crime such as that and held the occupants of a tram for ransom. Is an air hostess, a pilot or even an innocent passenger on an aircraft any different from a passenger in a tram? 
To suggest that the extremeness of the penalty in no way acts as a deterrent is to ignore the facts of criminal life. Many thousands of criminals throughout the world will not carry a gun because if they are caught carrying such a weapon while in the process of a burglary, the penalty is far greater than if they were not armed. I believe that people with criminal minds who commence their life of crime with burglary are potential hijackers for profit. It is obvious that more severe penalties deter criminals from carrying a gun. We must produce some form of deterrent in an effort to stop the spread of these dreadful crimes of terrorism. I stand for abolition of the death penalty, but I also stand for society retaining that penalty for these very specified crimes, at least until we know whether such a penalty is a deterrent. We need more proof than we have today for the claim that the extremity of the penalty acts in no way as a deterrent. Some people make this claim but they do not provide any basis for it. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General.  I  preface it by saying that on 27 February  I  asked him this question on notice: 
Does the Attorney-General approve of remarks attributed to his spokesman which were published in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 4 September 1972 to the effect that 'early consideration would be given to compensating draft resisters, who had been jailed?' 
Was the spokesman correctly reported by the newspaper? 
As it is 6 months since that question was asked, which would seem to be adequate time for research, when can  I  expect a reply from the Minister? 
I  seek to ask a supplementary question.  I  specifically asked the Attorney-General when  I  was likely to receive an answer to a question on notice, which  I  understand is due to me in writing. The answer that he has given today has skirted around the question but does not answer it. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate whether Marrickville Holdings Ltd or its associated companies, ETA Foods Pty Ltd and Arnotts Ltd imported potatoes from New Zealand during 1971-72 and 1972-73? If so, how many tons did they import? What was the price per pound paid? Was any subsidy paid to any of these companies? If any contracts have been entered into for the current year what are they and what is the current price? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Attorney-General approve of remarks attributed to his spokesman which were published in the Sydney Morning Herald on 4 December 1972, to the effect that 'early consideration would be given to compensating draft resisters, who have been gaoled*? 
Was the spokesman correctly reported by the newspaper? 
1 speak in favour of the matter of urgency in this motion which condemns the Government's action. One recognises that there has been an unprecedented amount of inflation in the last few years. But that is not what we are discussing; we are discussing whether the steps taken by the Government have been reasonable and whether they are likely to be successful. Firstly I wish to refer to the revaluation of the Australian dollar. Australia's currency has been revalued 3 times in the short period of office of this Government. This has created a condition of complete uncertainty at home and abroad as to what is likely to be the ultimate fate of Australia's currency. We should try to understand what this revaluation means to Australia from the point of view of the average person. It is not so important internally to the average person who works for a living as the increase in interest rates may be. However, revaluation does have a far-reaching effect. The effect reaches the average person in our community although such people are in no position to take advantage of it, as perhaps are those with extreme wealth who can speculate on the market. We notice that a fortnight or 3 weeks before the Government took action last weekend, for some reason unknown to anybody, people overseas, particularly on the London market, began to unload blue chip Australian shares likely to be affected if there was an upward revaluation of our currency. There is some proof that some information on the moves that were contemplated must have escaped in spite of the fact that Ministers who were going abroad in Australia's interests, such as the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr Cairns),  were not informed. Somehow or other the London market at least got a tip-off. The only other reason that could be given for unloading prime Australian securities some two or three weeks ago on the London market was the high rate of interest operating in that country as compared with what was operating here. It was suggested at that time that the reason why English institutions and private holders of stocks such as shares in Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd were unloading their blue chip holdings was to reinvest their capital in Australian shares, that they would gain capital from the revaluation of Australian currency and would get about a 25 per cent premium before investing in the high interest rate market of the United Kingdom. That was the reason given. Unfortunately those circumstances had existed for a long time. It seems to be a strange coincidence that only a few weeks before the revaluation decision was taken the Australian share market in London was affected detrimentally so far as Australia was concerned in that blue chip Australian stocks were unloaded. It would appear that whatever security measures were taken by the Government somebody somewhere got the drift of the possibility of events such as this and took advantage of the situation. 
How does revaluation affect the average man in the street? Overseas currency rates do not affect such a person very much except for the fact that shirts and shoes from Hong Kong can now be bought in greater numbers with Australian dollars and sold in Australian shops at cheaper prices, in competition with Australian produced articles. If we add the 5 per cent currency revaluation to the effect of the 25 per cent cut in tariffs on those items, yes, the decision will hit the Australian man in the street, the men who work in boot factories and the girls who work in shirt factories. It will affect such people engaged in those secondary types of industries throughout Australia on which we depend for a great proportion of our industrial employment. People are going to find that the goods they are manufacturing cannot compete on the Australian market. This could bring depression to those areas. The possibility of exporting those types of products recedes enormously following this revaluation. 
Taking those circumstances into consideration, the employment picture painted by the Government will not necessarily be carried out in the next 6 months as the impact of these measures hits the market. Retailers in this country, such as Myers- I believe that Myers is a great supporter of the Government- can gain tremendous advantage because they can buy in eastern markets goods which they can unload on Australian consumers to the detriment of Australian workers. Such retailers can obtain enormous advantage from this decision by the Government. It is said that the decision was taken in the interests of controlling inflation in this country. It may in some measure cause unemployment in Australia and to that extent ultimately it may succeed. At the same time it will make a pound of Australian beef cost more Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong market and on other markets abroad, but the Australian farmer will receive no increased income. Australian farmers still will be selling at the old Australian price, but more dollars will be required overseas to buy his goods. Therefore that market is likely to contract in accordance with the capacity of people to pay the higher prices necessary to buy those goods. That is not a very encouraging picture for Australian primary producers. 
Therefore revaluation will hit 2 sectors. It will hit the workers in the factories and it will hit the workers on the farms. At the same time it will advantage the retailers, the speculators and moneyed interests in the community. This sort of thing I could understand from a government that is not labour oriented but I cannot understand it of this Government that professes to be labour oriented. The Government must be doing this in complete ignorance of the consequences to the working people, to people working on farms and in factories. I cannot understand why the Government has taken a step such as this after having taken similar steps on 2 occasions previously since coming to office. 
It is not possible to cover the ramifications of the whole question in the 15 minutes that I have to speak while the Senate proceedings are being broadcast, but by using simple illustrations I want to demonstrate the consequences to the people of this step. Members of the Labor Party have shown little interest in educating themselves by listening to the opinions of others in this debate. There have not been 5 or 6 Labor supporters in this chamber during this debate and there has not been more than one Minister present. They would like people in the streets to think that they are experts in the field of economics. They portray to us a Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  who, on his admission when he gained office, gave as his greatest qualification to run the finances of this country the fact that having been a member of Parliament for upwards of 30 years he ultimately had managed to pay off a humble dwelling he bought in Port Melbourne, Melbourne, for some eight hundred pounds in the days when properties were cheap. 
I have to say this: I would have more confidence today in a Labor Treasurer who had started as a newsboy and became a successful business man. At least I would know that he had gained some experience of the business qualifications which are necessary to run the economy. Perhaps that is the reason why Labor men stood up and supported me on the numerous occasions on which I condemned the previous Government for resorting to the fallacious economic theory that higher interest rates would control inflation. I pointed out to that government that over the period of 1 5 years in which it had indulged in this practice it had not controlled inflation. I received great commendation and support from Labor senators. Some even stood and repeated what I said, almost in magpie-like fashion. Now I can understand that they did not know what they were talking about because they have completely changed their coats. 
-They still do not know. Suddenly, in some mysterious manner known only to the purists in the theories of economics, who strangely enough are like  Mr Crean  in that they have never succeeded as businessmen or handled money to their own advantage, they believe that we should have high interest rates. How in the devil can such people handle money to the advantage of the people of Australia? Let us consider the supposed reaction of higher interest rates and compare that with what actually happens. The purist theory on interest rates is that if you increase interest rates it will have the effect that borrowers will borrow less because it is dearer to borrow money. It sounds all right, but we will examine it in a minute. 
In a period of inflation  lenders  have to ensure that they get a return for their money, particularly in long term lending. They must cover, with the interest that they receive, at least the rate of inflation that is occurring. Persistently in periods of inflation they demand higher interest rates to cover that risk factor, and quite naturally so. As long as interest rates remain fixed and steady lenders tend not to lend. It is not good business, is it? But then the Government suddenly increases interest rates by an unknown amount. We have heard rumours that they will be increased by between 1 per cent and 2 per cent. So the lenders suddenly unbutton their pockets and start looking for borrowers. But in theory the borrowers will borrow less if you increase interest rates. Is that fact or fiction? 
I have read all the banking reports over the years, and it is a strange thing that the banks always report that overdrafts become buoyant when interest rates are increased. Of course they become buoyant. People in industry are encouraged to borrow money in order to expand industries because they know full well that onehalf of what they borrow, anyway, is allowed as a tax deductible item and they do not pay the increased rate of interest at all. The only person who really suffers is the poor little home buyer who borrows money merely to build a home in which to live. But anybody borrowing money for the purpose of investment- to get a productivity as a return- knows full well that the rate of interest is not of very much concern to him at all. If he is paying a rate of 9 per cent interest, in actual fact after taxation is taken into consideration he would be unlucky if he were paying a rate of four and a half per cent interest. The rest is taken up by taxation deductions because he i- borrowing money in the interests of earning income. 
What effect has this latest move had on the stock market? We have seen Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd shares, which, 5 years ago were worth $ 19 a share, fall to $6.90 a share. If the theory was correct that higher interest rates prevented people from lending or borrowing money, why are Australian investors- forget what I have said already about overseas investors- unloading blue chip shares on the market today? 
-Senator McAuliffe should give me a logical argument to defeat my argument. He should not give a lot of silly nonsense just to hide the fact that he is ignorant of the subject which we are discussing. Australian investors are unloading blue chip shares on the market today. They are withdrawing their money from investments in industries that will create goods to meet the demands on the market and they are putting it into straightout loan money transactions. Why are they doing that if the Government's theory that higher interest rates will reduce the number of borrowers is right? By increasing interest rates you do not reduce the number of borrowers. All that you do is to encourage a greater number of lenders and the capacity at which they are prepared to lend. Instead of being a brake on the market, as is suggested in the pure theory of economics, the practical businessman will tell you that very often the action of increasing interest rates, without imposing many other restrictions to go with it, operates in an entirely contrary manner. Higher interest rates themselves not only are a considerable contributing factor in price increases but also hit right at the heart of what the Government is trying to accomplish. They can stimulate the circulation of money and credit within the community rather than deter it. At the same time that the Government is carrying out that stimulation it is encouraging people to withdraw their investment in the creative and productive market which would provide the extra goods to meet the demand. It is said that the intention is to encourage people to invest in straightout Government bonds that carry tax remissions. If in this futile experiment interest rates increase in this country as they have in some other countries, although none of these countries has succeeded in controlling inflation by this experiment, we will reach the stage where the Government is actually encouraging - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Durack)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Did Marrickville Holdings Ltd or its associate companies Eta Foods Pty Ltd and Arnotts Ltd import potatoes from New Zealand in 1971-72 and 1972-73, if so, 
how many tons did they import; 
b ) what was the price per pound paid; 
was any subsidy paid to the company or companies; and 
) what, if any, are the details of the contracts entered into for the current financial year; and 
what is the current price. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, is really supplementary to a question on notice that was answered by the Minister yesterday. Was the 300 tons of potatoes imported from New Zealand by Marrickville Holdings Ltd during the months of August and September 1973 part of the 800 tons approved for importation, or is it an addition thereto? Who were the other importers? If the Minister cannot inform the Parliament of the price paid in the contracts, can he inform the Parliament whether it was less than the Australian market price during August, the same or in excess of the Australian price? 
-From what he said at the beginning of his remarks I thought  Senator Brown  would be introducing a worthwhile philosophy into the debate and that he was not going to make inflation a political issue. I thought I would be able to listen to a learned dissertation as to what is the present rate of inflation, what was the cause of it and how it was taking place both in Australia and in other countries. But he slipped back into a political harangue in which he said that the Australian Labor Party was better than the Liberal Party of Australia and that, in terms of the rate of unemployment and everything else, we were better off when Labor was in power than we were when a Liberal-Country Party government was in power. That is a subject of political controversy. 
I agree with  Senator Brown's  statement that there is no economist in the world- there is certainly no Treasury official in Australia- who has the complete answer to the problem of inflation. In my view the Treasury officials in Australia have always adopted the wrong policy. I have expressed that view on several occasions, particularly in relation to interest. They have done so in their attempts to prop up a classic theory of economics which, in my view, is outmoded. The fact that they have been endeavouring for so long to control the situation has proved the theory to be a failure. For supporters of the Government to try and argue that the rate of inflation at this point of time is not dangerous is ridiculous. The Government has just introduced a Budget to try to do something about the danger of inflation. Whether it is doing right or wrong things at this moment is of no concern. The fact is that the Government has admitted that inflation has it worried, that it exists and is a greater danger than it was before. The Government has taken steps- wrong steps in many instances, I think- to meet inflation. 
I do not see how the Labor Party, having been elected to government on promises that it would not increase taxation and elaborate promises about the money it would hand out, in order to balance the Budget should increase the excise on cigarettes and petrol by 10 per cent and then claim that it is controlling inflation. How can an increase in the cost of a basic commodity like petrol control inflation? The price of all goods that come to the market is rising as a result of distribution costs, one of the greatest inflationary costs. If wages in the manufacturing process are increased, then at least that increase is producing something; but an increase in wages in the distributing sector, merely takes the goods from one place to another in the market, but produces nothing. The retailing section provides a service to the community; it does not produce more goods to meet the demand that exists. Every wage increase must be inflationary unless productivity is increased at a rate which can withstand such an increase right across the board. That is an economic fact of life. 
I should have thought that  Senator Brown  would tell us some of these things. I should have thought that he would refer to some of the ageold theories and the fact that we did not have inflation with a gold and silver currency. There was a bimettalist theory that because our currency consisted of precious metals we could not have inflation. But of course those who have taken some interest in the matter know that that is a lot of hoky-poky, that instead of doing what we do now- printing more money or creating more credit through banks and so on- they created inflation simply by debasing the value of the precious metal in the currency by introducing more zinc to the silver and more copper to the gold so that the golden sovereign no longer was of the same purity or the silver coin became darn near a nickel one. We have learned that we can exchange our goods just as well for a document which has no value other than its acceptance by a government to pay taxation or to buy a postage stamp. 
If we limit the capacity of our development to the amount of gold we can find, that is probably the most stupid theory about the exchange of goods that we produce that one could possibly have. Yet for centuries man has chained himself to that concept just as some people of the world chained themselves to the idea that the only way in which they could store for future use that which they earned today was to drill holes in the coins and hang them around their necks. But we have developed a banking structure by which money saved today can be loaned out for development of industry somewhere else. And we still get inflation, as was found by people who put coins around their necks on a string while others debased the value of the precious metal in coins. It is a problem to which no economist has found a perfect answer. However, that is not what we are discussing. 
We are discussing the fact that in the 10 months of this Government's term of office inflation has had a tremendous impetus, which this Government recognises, because of what it has tried to do in the Budget. It is now rushing around wondering whether it will have price control on this and that. It says the principal problem is with food prices. This morning's newspapers say that food prices have gone up by 1 5 per cent in the last 9 months. I suggest that if the Government goes out and samples the market it will find that the highest level of inflation is in home building. That is where prices have gone up. But it is not as a result of the cost of building houses today for houses that were built 20 or 30 years ago with cheaper labour have gone up in price as much as new houses. It is a fallacious use of the economy which has caused this situation. I agree with  Senator Brown's  opening remark that we should not always say: 'The other fellow is wrong, and we are right. He said look at what we did about unemployment- there were 20,000 more out of work when we were not in government than since we have been in government.' In an economy as big as Australia's the fact that 20,000 people more were registered for unemployment benefit at any specific time is not important while we have the social services structure that we have. 
One member of the Government keeps saying: You put them on the dole.' Where is the intelligence in that approach? Certainly they were put on the dole. But we have progressed from that concept, thank goodness; we just do not any more let people starve. But two or three members of the one family who are on the dole are better off than a family of five or six children whose father is working 40 hours a week. That is how bad being on the dole has become. I do not deprecate that situation. But how unintelligent it is to try to introduce these sorts of statistics as relevant to the subject of inflation which we are trying to discuss. Surely anyone can see that a government does not have to do anything to cause inflation: It only has to create a condition of mind in the people. By its very promises made before its election this Government induced a higher rate of inflation at the moment the people entrusted it with government, because people expected prices to go up. And if they expected prices to go up, was it not natural that they should start to spend their reserves in order to buy before the prices went up? Members of the community are not as unintelligent as some members of Parliament try to make them out to be. But they too joined the stream. They are intelligent enough to know that, and they rushed into the market to buy before prices went up. So any suggestion that there will be inflation helps to create inflation. 
What greater inducement can they have than that the Government is on the one hand pledging that it will not increase taxation and, on the other, making extravagant promises that it will spread a lot of new incomes among the community, that it will expand ministries enormously and will employ a whole new field of labour which is not producing any goods to meet the market demands? That is the point of commencement for increased inflation. One should not envy the fellow who gets a job. He must work; but it is non-productive work in terms of creating goods to meet the demand which is being pumped onto the market by this Government's monetary policies. The Government did all these things and now it must accept the responsibility for them. It is now receiving advice from the Treasury which not all Government members will accept, as we know from clashes in Caucus. 

 Mr Hawke has been to Canberra to advise the Government as to what the unions will accept. I suggest to this Government that it is reaching the stage where it will have to govern this country itself. It will have to accept some advice from somebody who knows the position if it does not know it itself. If it will go so far forward and then step backwards because  Mr Hawke  tells it that his section of the community- and it is a very important section- will not co-operate, then the Government must be strong enough to reject  Mr Hawke  and his advice or it must accept the responsibility that it cannot contain inflation. I know what were the Government's intentions and its dreams. The Government disagreed with the defence policy of the Party to which I happen to belong. It argued that many of its promises could be financed as a result of defence cuts, and it has endeavoured to do that. But even in that area it is not free.  Mr Hawke  arrived again this week and said: 'Stop putting our fellows in the defence industry out of work'. The Government has been putting them to work in many other industries and creating a demand for labour in the market place. 
There is nothing wrong with it- but inflation-wise everything is wrong with it. It is a trap. If the honourable senator will sit and listen intelligently instead of just interposing without any deep thought, he will understand.  Mr Hawke  arrived here and said: 'In spite of the fact that you have now created no need for work in the defence industries, you must keep the fellows employed.' The Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  has agreed to some extent with this philosophy because he has said: 'We will not put anyone in these industries out of work'. But the Labor Party dreamed of financing some of the things which it thought were more important than defence by putting people in the defence industries out of work. Now the Labor Party is finding that it is not free to do so. It cannot have it both ways. If it wants the lolly, it has to pay for it. If the Government dreamed, as I believe it did, that many of the things which it has suggested were more important to the nation than defence could be financed by putting people out of work, it was wrong. Honourable senators opposite know whether that was the dream. I might disagree with them about what was more important to the nation, but that is another subject. 
The Labor Party realised the enormous expenditure on defence and thought that there could be great savings there. They have not been as great as it thought. Now the effects of its policies are beginning to be felt. It is finding that the influences in its organisations are preventing it from making in the areas savings of money and, more importantly, labour power which it intended to direct into more productive types of industry. What I say is true. Labour power that is involved in defence production is always inflationary because it produces nothing that can be commonly used to meet the demand in a time when there is no war. In fact, the great inflationary effect of all wars is that they create and the labour force creates things that do not meet the demand of the people who are earning the money, particularly those in the munition industries, to buy the things that they want. Wars build up an enormous reserve of demand in their pockets. While the demand can be controlled in wartime conditions, it is likely to break out like a flood immediately a government is forced to remove the wartime restrictions once the war has finished. In that alone there is a simple lesson in economics that surely everybody who lived through the war years should have learned unless they had their eyes and ears shut. Those sorts of things were handled. 
That is why today members of the Democratic Labor Party believe that the national economy has to be the responsibility of somebody. We cannot go back to the old days of laissez-faire, when the private banks could produce credit at will and inflate the demand by this means and when they could restrict demand by withdrawing overdrafts at their whim. Time and again I have said that we support the idea that only one authority should be responsible for the national economy. Whether we think it is an efficient one at the moment is not relevant. It is for the people to decide. They have elected a government. It is the Government's job to manage the national economy. The Government should not be trammelled in its job because only the Commonwealth Government can do it. But this Government is doing it wrongly. It is resorting to those remedies which have been tried and proved to be failures. The Government wants to accept the sugar that goes with the medicine but not to take the medicine. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)-  Order! We will have to leave the medicine there. The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-Although this Bill is a short and simple piece of legislation it has very wide implications.  Senator Jessop  in speaking to this Bill referred to the days of Diocletian and the Roman Empire. Of course Diocletian did not have an economy to administer based on the same concepts as we have. To begin with he had recourse to slave labour which is a very trenchant economic factor. However, we are indebted to  Senator Jessop  for reminding us that the problem is as old as those times when currency was in an entirely different form, the credit structures were in an entirely different form, and even the supply of labour to the market was in an entirely different form to what it is today. Yet, people who lived in those times had problems of inflation. 
The present Government must have been well aware, not because of the long history of inflation but because of statements made since it gained office and in particular in the fortnight before it sought election that one of its great problems would be to control the economy of the nation. It must have known that it would have to counter the inflation that was in existence before it took office. Comments have come from both sides of the House as to what degree inflation existed before the present Government took office. I think we can only judge the Government's approach to the problem from its actions immediately it took office. Of course, we all know that the Government took control with a form of dictatorship for a short period of a month in which 2 men were practically able to do almost anything they wanted. If this Government now wishes to proclaim that it has always been aware that the people who were previously in government had created factors which were likely to cause inflation surely the first steps taken in those days of new government should have been steps to control inflation to some degree. 
Let us have a look at what the steps were so that we can get into perspective precisely the awareness of the present Government which now wants urgent action in relation to this problem. One of the first steps the Government took on gaining office was to abolish the sales tax on contraceptives. This was of such major importance in the affairs of the nation that the Government raced in to make this change. The Government also conceived the idea of making divorce easier by tampering with the rules and regulations of the Act instead of tampering with the Act itself. That, of course, wasted a lot of the time of this Parliament and delayed the opportunity for it to get down to the essential matters of inflation in the economy. But it did not end there. There was, of course, the very urgent matter that had been going on for years of the recognition of Red China and East Germany. This was given enormous priority. However, such matters made no contribution to the control of the economy or inflation of this country. We also saw the absolute urgent necessity of excluding Taiwan and its Embassy from Australia although only 2 short months before half of the Labor Party presented themselves at a celebration dinner at the Taiwan Embassy to show how great was the friendship between Taiwan, the Australian Parliament and members of the Labor Party. Apparently this move was of paramount and urgent importance. 
The Government also abolished national service in fulfilment of an election promise. Here, for the first time is a glimmer of something which may effect the economy in terms of controlling inflation. It could be expected that if national service training is terminated a source of labour would be made available to the labour market that was denied to it before. This is a source of labour that can produce goods to meet extra demand on the market. So there is one decision which can be put on the credit side. However, I think that this was an accidental decision from the point of view of helping to control inflation because the Government took this action not with the idea of doing this at all. We are examining the facts now and not a lot of political jargon. 
The Government also increased the level of pensions and social service payments in accordance with another election promise. I agree that this matter should have been taken care of as soon as was possible but one cannot suggest by any degree that such a step was anti-inflationary. 
Well that is a side line which perhaps may or may not have affected minutely the problem of inflation. But the general increases could not have been said to have been looking towards the major problem of inflation in the nation. I agree, before honourable senators try to tell me something that I already know, that if this matter is urgent it has to be done irrespective of steps that may cause inflation. But a sensible government conscious of its responsibilities towards inflation would take counter steps at the same time to cushion the inflationary aspect of spreading an enormous amount of new purchasing power amongst the deprived section of the community. A sensible government would have taken the counter measures necessary to at least cushion the inflationary effects of such a step. It was not done by this Government. 

 - Senator McAuliffe should wait until he has heard my speech. He will then know all about it and will not be left with a question to ask. I am prepared to avail him of my knowledge on this subject if he is prepared to sit in silence and listen to what I have to say. I do not need any help from him. 
Another matter which absorbed almost the whole of the attention of the first sessional period of this Parliament was the raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. It had nothing to do with the problem of inflation. But it was said by somebody in the dark of night that a threat had been made against a visiting dignitary and ASIO was raided. That raid prompted a great deal of discussion throughout the length and breadth of Australia. A great deal of the time that was spent by the Parliament in discussing that issue could have been better spent on an examination of the economy of the nation and of the steps necessary to rescue it from the abyss of inflation into which it was rapidly sliding. The Government should have been aware of its responsibility to try to control inflation in every step that it took upon assuming office. It was aware that inflation was a major problem throughout the world. The measures the Government introduced upon assuming office were ones which were more likely to produce inflation and in fact did produce inflation. The Government should have taken counter steps to prevent those measures from having an inflationary effect. 
The stage came when ultimately the Government had to try and balance its Budget. It had an enormous opportunity in the Budget to take up the slack in relation to inflation. I have some sympathy for the Government for the predicament in which it finds itself. Perhaps it was reckless in the promises it made to the community to enable it to be elected to office. But that does not mean that the Government should have implemented all of its promises straight away. The Budget was highly inflationary. Indeed, some of the Budget measures which were designed to help pay the bills that were accumulating were in themselves inflationary. The increased tax upon cigarettes was not so important. The increased taxes upon beer and spirits were not so important. But the increased tax upon petrol was of enormous importance because petrol is one of the main ingredients upon which the transport industry is based. That industry carries goods produced by other industries but does not itself produce goods. It is largely designed to provide a service. Any increase in transport costs is highly inflationary. 
Another promise the Government has honoured- a promise which may have been well founded- is the improving of conditions in the Public Service. Public servants may have been staggering with exhaustion because they were entitled to only 3 weeks' annual leave, one week's sick leave and 7 to 10 public holidays a year. The Government promised that it would grant an extra week's leave to the Public Service and it honoured that promise. Nobody could suggest that in an industry which is productive only of services an increase of leave- quite apart from increased wages- does not have an enormous inflationary impact because it drains the labour market still further. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party is a Party which believes in the family and which believes in maternity leave. But a government which introduced maternity leave should also have introduced other measures to counter its inflationary effect on the economy. This Government did not do any of those things. Indeed, the introduction of maternity leave in the Public Service alone must place extra demands upon the labour market of this country. It must prevent labour from flowing into productive sectors because someone has to make up the time lost by those who receive the benefit of such reform in the Public Service. The introduction of such a provision at an injudicious period- honourable senators opposite have admitted that this is a period of highly inflationary tendencies- must aggravate the inflationary situation if some counter measures are not introduced at the same time. 
All these things are starting to catch up on the Government. The Government has just realised that there is an inflationary crisis. After having introduced a Budget which contained very few if any measures designed to counter inflation the Government has just begun to see the pathway ahead. As the criticism of the Budget continues to build up the Government has decided to take panic action. This includes a futile measure in which even the Government does not believe. The Government wants the people of Australia to confer upon it the power to control prices. One would think that this is a new idea, but it is not. One would think it was new if one listened only to the Australian Labor Party. Twelve months ago the Democratic Labor Party produced a Bill in this Parliament that had something to do with inflation. It was based on sound economic grounds. That Bill was introduced during the tenure of office of the previous Government. 
Honourable senators opposite may base all their political philosophy on getting votes and winning of elections, but the Democratic Labor Party is above that. The Democratic Labor Party stands for what is of benefit to the nation. We have demonstrated that we are prepared to pick up any cause, however unpopular it may be, which we are absolutely convinced is in the interests of the nation. We do not give a hang whether the people decide to elect us to the Parliament. It is their right to judge us on our performances. We are not concerned about the aspect that is of concern to members of the Australian Labor Party. The Bill we produced provides the answer to one of the problems the Government is faced with. The Government says that it needs power only to control prices because wages are already controlled. Has it not said that? 
If only a few more of its supporters were present they would be able to learn that that is not the truth. Wages are not controlled in that sense. The Bill which the DLP introduced in this Parliament over 12 months ago related to an area in which there was a need for control over wages. Agreements were being made outside of the jurisdiction of the tribunals which have been set up to do what the Government says they do, that is, control wages. Of course, the trade union movement has never complained about prices increases which have emanated from wage agreements which were made outside the jurisdiction of the wage fixing tribunals of this country. The DLP's Bill was a simple one. My colleagues and I requested the Parliament to accept it because it was in the interests of the nation. The Bill was refused. The refusal was based on a failure to believe in the need for such controls. But the Government does believe in the need for controls because it has requested that this referendum be held. 
When the present Government was first elected to office the Democratic Labor Party wrote to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and recommended to him that he implement the provisions of the Bill introduced by the DLP. If an employer said to a union: 'We will give you the wage increase you asked for', the union would shut its eyes to what happened subsequently and say the increase it received had come out of the profits of the employer. But the Democratic Labor Party had its eyes open. It saw that a wage increase invariably caused an employer to put up his prices. It said that under the corporation powers it was not necessary to conduct a referendum of the people. The DLP recommended the provisions of its Bill to the Government. The Government could have controlled the inflation that emanates from those sorts of things if it had implemented the DLP's Bill 6 months ago. But the Government did not choose to do that. 
If you think it would have created a lawyer's paradise, I suggest that you wait until your Government starts trying to control prices. Then you will see the machinery that will be needed to control prices. If the honourable senator does not believe me, I suggest that he recall the wartime controls and aquaint himself with the facts, if he is interested in them, and not blind himself to the whole question. So we reach a point where we can show quite clearly that this Government is not enthusiastic about the proposition that it has placed before the people. Certainly it is not unanimous, because only yesterday - 
Of course, I do not expect all senators to be unanimous. I respect honourable senators opposite more when they are not. It is when they are unanimous that I despise them because, having regard to the number of honourable senators on the Government side, it would be impossible for them all to think identically. They are not men if they do. They must certainly have varying ideas on all subjects, and, on this one by 45 votes to 43 or 42, they made a hairline decision. 
The honourable senator was apparently among the 45 and he won. Whether that balance of power of 3 in the Labor Caucus necessarily illustrates that the Australian nation is getting what it hoped it would get when the Labor Party was elected to office- that is, the control of inflationary tendencies in the community, and at least control the ones which it has added in the period in which it has been in office- is another question. I doubt that the 3 geniuses who supplied the majority are themselves sufficiently well equipped to deal with this problem. Unless all the senators who are here now were among those on that particular side, the majority who voted for the proposition are not even interested in improving their knowledge of the question because they are not listening to the debate that is now taking place in this Senate. But whatever their limitations are- and we are all aware of one another's limitations- they have been charged by the people of the nation with the responsibility of trying to solve the problem of the control of the national economy. I am talking about ourselves, we who are now discussing inflation- yet some here are not prepared to listen. 
-Then they can read in Hansard what I say. I am trying to help. We have reached a stage in the debate at which those honourable senators are denying us the privilege of listening to their wisdom on the problem because they will not even get on their 2 feet and talk. They have nothing to talk about, apparently. Let us consider what are the real questions of inflation. A real question at the moment is: What do we do at a time of crisis? The Government of course has recourse to the expert advice of the Treasury officers and other people on what the trends may be and it advises us that there is a national crisis. Indeed it was suggested today that the Parliament should not take as long to consider this proposal as did the Labor Caucus. That was the proposition, so great is the emergency. But the Parliament was wiser than was expected and did not let the Government do that. We want time to consider the proposal. We in the Democratic Labor Party want time to help the Government get over its problem in the interests of the Australian nation. This problem is more important than politics. When the question was first mooted people were sectionalising the political parties and everybody knew where the DLP would be- but nobody knows it even now. 
-We do know. We have introduced a Bill about which I will say more in a moment. It is on the notice paper of this House. It is a Bill which is a more logical proposition than the one we are now debating. It will give the Government the right to try some of its ideas to control inflation and will give it an opportunity to support a sensible suggestion which many of them- most of them, I suspect- support. Why do I say that,  Mr Acting Deputy  President? I can go only by the newspapers because I am not privy to what happens in the Labor Party Caucusalthough it seems that the political journalists of this country, to their great credit, have access to almost minute to minute reports of what actually goes on inside the secret conclaves of the Labor 
Caucus. If by quoting the newspapers  1  am wrong, I apologise. I have no doubt that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the key figure in the whole of this question, carries on his shoulders this enormous responsibility, and that every politician, whatever his political creed, should be anxious to help him in the interests of the nation- and we are anxious to help. The Treasurer voted against the proposition that incomes should be considered, and incomes do not necessarily mean only wages; but that is another question and I will deal with it. The Treasurer, Frank Crean, in his statement after the meeting, according to the newspapers, said he really believed that incomes should be added but that the Labor Party could add incomes only when the unions would accept that addition. 
Who is running the country? Who is it that says that incomes as well as prices should not be under the control of the Federal Government when the Government is trying to do something to control inflation? ls it the Government that was elected in the last election? Or has it had to send for  Mr Hawke  on every occasion when this question of governing the nation or controlling inflation is brought up? We deprecate the fact that  Mr Hawke  has twice been sent for in the last couple of weeks. But we pay this tribute to  Mr Hawke,  that he has acted as an honourable man. It would have been easy for him to have deceived the people of this nation. It would have been easy for the leader of the trade union movement of this country to have come here with 2 hats and to have changed them so rapidly as to confuse everybody, being with the Labor Party and also with the unions. He is  President  of the Labor Party and  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. But he came here and wore his trade union hat, and he said he would not co-operate when the Government endeavoured to abdicate responsibility for the control of incomes. He said he would not guarantee the co-operation of the trade union movement. And if that is the case, most certainly - 
That was very honourably done, but accepting it in the context that it is an honourable statement it is most necessary that the Government of this country should immediately say: 'If we are to control the economy, if we are to control inflation, we must control prices and incomes'. What is the sensitivity, one asks oneself, about controlling incomes? True, wages is a form of income but so are profits, rents and many other things. Why is it that the trade unions do not want incomes to be included? Have they thought about it sufficiently? I do not know. It is for them to answer. But it is most certain that the mere control of prices will not control profits. I have heard people here argue that if one controls prices one can control profits. Many people are selling things at a price and finish up by going broke, because their prices do not meet their costs. That is how people go bankrupt. Controlling prices does not control profits. One must control many things in order to control profits. 
I am not concerned about such a little, fiddling thing, as is one member of the Labor Party, be it a turtle farmer or anything else. We are talking about the national economy. None of us in this Senate is important; our political careers are unimportant, whether we get votes is unimportant compared with the question with which we are trying to deal. The wellbeing of every Australian, and the opportunities for them, not only today but for generations to come, are involved in this question, which has rightly been said to have defeated most of the thinking people of the world. In the last quarter of a century inflation has spiralled in countries such as France, Italy and Japan. In many instances their internal currencies have been revalued, in many cases by anything from 100 per cent to 1000 per cent. This has brought about the complete impoverishment of the people whom the Labor Party says it represents- the little man. The big man can unload into property reserves and other channels to escape the consequences and emerge wealthy again in the new financial structure which is created, but the little man has to start again from scratch.  His  children, who have had no opportunity, start a long way behind the scratch mark in the race for a decent standard of living. That is what we are discussing. 
The Government says that it will find a cure in one day or in 5 minutes. It has had the view of 45 out of the 98 or 88 members of Caucus, or whatever number of members of Caucus are entitled to vote, and that is it. The Government says: 'Let us put the Bill through the Parliament', without any advice or any assistance, ignoring the views of other people who have also been elected by the people to help run this country. It is wrong in that concept, and we are telling the Government that it is wrong. It is wrong in its approach to the whole question. We have put before the Senate an alternative proposition which, we hope, will be discussed. It can be discussed. It is the open door to the solution which the Government wants. If it is not politically stupid it will see beyond the vote of the 45 and the fact that the unions are all-powerful in the Labor Party's internal discussions. The unions have not even threatened the Government as yet, unless they have done so privately, yet the Government is frightened of union reactions if it dares to venture into the field of incomes, including profits and everything else. The Government says: Here is the proposition. It provides solely for the Federal Government to control prices'. We say to this Government, based on the things which I will not reiterate but which I have already stated in debates on this economic question, as we have said to this Governments' predecessors in government over the years: 'It is our judgment and our advice to you that an attempt to control the economy of the nation by controlling prices alone is doomed to failure and is sheer stupidity, almost to the extent of hypocrisy'. Many Labor leaders have admitted that the proposition will not work. They know that it will not work. Even the Treasurer has said: 'We would like to have control of incomes too, but we cannot have that control while the unions object'. Are the unions in a position to look at both sides of the question, in the interests of all Australians? Do union officials do so even for their own members? I say that they do not, and I have been a union official. They have a specific job to do, and they do it very well. 
I am telling you what my Party has put forward. Do not interrupt me with futile questions. Listen and you will learn a lot. 
Yes. We are putting that forward in our Bill. 
I am arguing that control of prices alone is sheer stupidity. That is not all that we propose in our Bill. Your mind is closed. Open the doors and let in the light and you will see what we are driving at. Listen to your leaders. 
Listen to Gough Whitlam and Frank Crean; do not worry about Father Divine. You have experts closer to home. 
Yes, Clyde Cameron. They are telling you that the control of prices alone is futile. If you will not listen to any of them, listen to the people who have so often been proven right in the Senate- listen to the Democratic Labor Party. 
The history of Vietnam is not finalised yet. Do not divert me to a subject on a matter on which we have had so many lengthy discussions, simply because you are beginning to lose the battle on this one. If I have been defeated 1,000 times previously, I am headed for victory on this occasion, and you know it. There is only one sensible proposition that the Parliament can come up with, and it is the proposition which the Democratic Labor Party has put forward. I have read the newspapers. They are full of predictions about what the Democratic Labor Party will do and what will be the consequences. Regardless of what happens in the Senate, nobody can prevent the Government of the day having a referendum on anything on which it wishes to have a referendum, provided that the Bill can pass the House of Representatives. But there is a time factor involved. The referendum cannot be held immediately unless the Government can convince the brains of the Senate that what it is putting forward is in the best interests of the people. It can never be said that the Democratic Labor Party is a Party which could be subdued when its ideas were not popular with the majority. We will not be subdued on this occasion. 
I look at the honourable senator, who comes from Queensland, and I lose my confidence in the thinking powers of the people of that State. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Senator McAuliffe,  I must ask you to abide by the Senate Standing Orders and keep silent while a senator is speaking. 

 Senator Cant- I rise on a point of order.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I request you to ask  Senator Little  to address the Chair and not provoke Government senators if you want us to cease interjecting. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder!  A  speaker  is entitled to use forceful arguments which may sometimes appear to be objectionable to honourable senators on the other side of the chamber. Very often this type of speech is prompted by interjections fromthe other side. I think that if everybody listens to the senator speaking the speeches will bemore to the point and more effective. It is the right of every senator to be heard. I must ask for silence. If I do not get it. I will take action. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President. I thank you for your advice. For perhaps the first time I was about tostrayand answer the inane interjection about somethingthat is occurring in Queensland. It seems to be a Partypolitical matter which is irrelevant to this great question, and I thank you for drawing me back to the subject before I had the chance to reply to the distraction that was offered by interjection. I am certain that nothing that I havesaidcouldhave in any way prompted the question.I was saying that the Democratic Labor Party has thought about this matter for years. It has producedaBill which is still on the notice paper.That Bill was rejectedby the previous Government and  by  this Government. We will not bebrow beaten into accepting a futile and stupid propositionas something that will solve or make any contribution towards solving the problem of inflation in the community, especially when the leaders of the Party which has introduced the Bill have made public statements to substantiate ourcondition. We stand for the principle that Government elected by the people of this country should be given the powers that arenecessary to arm itself to act in the interests of thepeople. So we have introduced a Bill into thisParliament. 
I have read newspaper predictions astothe fate of the Government's proposition. Notallthe newspaper articles are accurate, although the reporters are particularly well informed. It is not true to say that the vote of the Senate at this time will prevent the Government having its referendum. It may delay the referendum. It is not true to say that the Democratic Labor Party's decision will decide the fate of the Government's Bill. Why, the Government nearly decided the fate of its Bill today. This leads one to question the Government's sincerity. We have read in the newspapers about the numbers that are supposed to be lined up in the Senate. But Government supporters want a decision today when they know full well that a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is absent due to illness and is not even in this city. They cannot obtain 31 votes under those circumstances. Do they want the vote to be taken during a period when they cannot win? Are Government members that hypocritical? Then let them not suggest that the Australian Democratic Labor 
Party in its attempt to help is in any way without lacking in sincerity. 
We do not close the door on this issue, whatever happens in the Senate on the Government Bill, because there is another Bill. There is our Bill. It is a Bill which contains a more sensible proposition. It would be subscribed to by any economist in the nation as being more sensible and, I suspect, it would be subscribed to by a majority of members of the La bor Party if they were not scared of the unions. We open that door to the Government. We not only point to the fact that it is open and that the opportunity is there; we also point out that the Government could have its referendum within the specified time it wants- before Christmas. The Government could take up that Bill. We will give it to the Government. It is our idea. It is much better than their Bill. It is there for the asking and for the taking. 
-What a stupid, fiddling, trivial, childish approach; because we add a couple of words that makes such a magnitude of difference, honourable senators opposite are not big enough to admit that our Bill is better than their Bill. Surely they cannot govern on that precept. Why do not they be statesmen instead of politicians. Wherever the idea comes from in the Parliament, honourable senators should reject them if they do not believe in them. But if ideas are in the interests of this nation senators should not reject them, saying: ' It is not ours. It is yours '. Honourable senators should not be here if that is their approach. 
When I was again interrupted, I think unfairly, I was making the point that we had opened the door to the Government to make a common sense approach. Even if the Government wants to treat our Bill only as a framework, it could get everything that it wants from it. The Government could get more than it wants. It could obtain control of prices and the right to administer the control of incomes- even profits. Surely that attracts Government supporters. We have placed the Bill before the Senate. We are offering it to the Government. If it does not want it, then it does not want price control. If it does want to control the economy of this nation and to fight inflation, I make this offer to the Government: Provided that the Government retains the principle that incomes should be controlled, it can move an amendment to the Bill. We will look at the propositions that the Government put forward. That is our contribution to this debate. I hope that members of the Australian Labor 
Party, even those who are not in the Senate chamber will read Hansard and know where we stand because this is a very great chance to do the things that they believe themselves are in the interests of this nation. 
-Can the Minister for Primary Industry confirm whether $ 10 per ton up to 1 50 tons was promised to growers of fruit for the canning industry when the first revaluation of the Australian dollar occurred early in 1973? If such a promise was made, when can the growers expect some payments? What is the position of a grower producing more than 150 tons? Does he get compensation, like other growers, up to 150 tons or is he excluded? 
I rise to speak on this question for only one reason, and that is to say something about the despicable attack which was made by  Senator Wright  on  Senator McManus,  who is the Acting Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party.  Senator Wright  implied that  Senator McManus  left this chamber after he had made certain remarks. Apparently  Senator Wright  flatters himself to the extent that he thinks that  Senator McManus  would leave because he feared anything  Senator Wright  might say. I point out that in this debate 

 Senator McManus is Acting Leader of the DLP and has assumed all the responsibilities of leadership. Surely  Senator Wright  should know that it would be as fair for me to imply that his leader left this chamber whilst he was speaking because his own leader felt contemptuous towards the remarks that he made. I do not make that allegation at all. I merely point to the fact that leaders have to leave the chamber because of other obligations. It is of no significance to me that  Senator Withers  left the chamber and that he has just returned when  Senator Wright  has seen fit to conclude his remarks.  Senator McManus  had a broadcasting commitment which he was holding up in order to make the remarks which he made in the Senate. He had to leave immediately. When it comes to the other things which  Senator Wright  saw fit to say about this Party - 
I am speaking to the suspension in the same vein as  Senator Wright  did. He also said that he would vote for the proposition. It is true that the Democratic Labor Party has adopted a particular stand on the propositions which are before the Parliament or which are to come before the Parliament. I believe that we can point to the history of this Party. None should know better than  Senator Wright  and the Liberal Party that we do not allow legislation to be placed on the shelf. On many occasions  Senator Wright's  Party saw fit to do that with legislation and again and again it was the Democratic Labor Party which had to pull the legislation off the shelf and assist that Government to govern this country more wisely. Time and again the Press was full of reports about it. If  Senator Wright  did not appreciate that action then, why should he worry about it now that the Democratic Labor Party is assisting this country to be governed better than it would be without the representation which we hold in this Parliament. The proposition before us is that we should allow rapid passage of the Constitution Alteration (Prices) Bill so that the referendum can be placed before the people in the proper manner. It is a proposition which, if adopted, could strengthen the fight against inflation. We have never disguised the fact that we do not think that it is all embracing and that it will cure inflation. I will accept what  Senator Webster  said about a question which was asked in another place today being factual. 
Whether it is or it is not it poses a situation which could happen. If the people vote for this proposition they will not be granting power to a government. They will be granting power to this Parliament.  Senator Wright  might want to abdicate his responsibility as a member of the Senate but the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party will never abdicate theirs. I say here and now that we will still discharge the responsibility given to us by the people. If legislation is brought along here which is consistent with the powers which are conferred upon the Government by a vote of the people and if we consider that that legislation is inefficient, incompetent and not sufficiently embracing to cover the whole field, then that legislation has poor chance of passing our Party. But if  Senator Wright  suggests that his Party will merely pass everything without examination and allow bad or incomplete legislation to pass the Parliament, then he speaks for himself and his Party. 
The Democratic Labor Party says here and now, as it has always said, that whatever legislation is brought to this Parliament as a result of this referendum which is to be put to the people, we will examine such legislation on its merits and if we consider that it is incomplete, that it does not encompass what the people desire, and in our judgment it is not in the best interests of the people, we will unhesitatingly vote against it. I do not think that anyone in this Parliament would take that right away from us. Apparently there are some at the moment who would try to win a cheap argument on trickery and who would suggest that that is not the true situation. The true situation is that this referendum will merely confer on the Parliament of the Commonwealth the power to do certain things. It is for this Parliament to decide whether those things shall or shall not become the law of the land. I trust that we will waste no more time on this matter by having a vindictive squabble and by trying to attribute blame, or deals, or pacts to the various parties. I hope that we will get on with the job in the interests of the Australian people and that we will do it rapidly. 

 Senator MILLINER (Queensland) (3.15J-I rise to support the motion but I want to go a little further than that. I say to  Senator Webster  that he has brought into this chamber today stories which are not worthy of a senator. I say to  Senator Wright  that he supported  Senator Webster  in his allegations that the Prime Minister of Australia had said something in the House of Representatives today.  Senator Wright,  the great democrat, tried to say that the Prime Minister had ratted on undertakings. I went to the House of Representatives to find out precisely the question which had been asked and the answer which had been given.  Mr President,  you will recall that  Senator Webster  said that the Prime Minister had said that no, he would not, if given the power, do anything about incomes. That is a complete and utter fabrication; it is unworthy of any honourable senator. If  Senator Webster  and  Senator Wright  had any principle and any regard for the Parliament or democracy they would withdraw their allegations. I propose now to read the question and answer which came from the other place this morning. I hope that  Senator Wright  has them in front of him because if he has they will show him just how despicable his actions were this afternoon. 
-As little time is available to me, I propose to deal with only one aspect of this matter. The main argument produced by the Government to substantiate its reductions in our defence forces has been that the main theme of our policy must be to make friends with the countries around us. I agree with that. Having the advantage of a few years over  Senator Wheeldon,  I remember when Chamberlain went to Munich and made friends with Hitler. We were friends with Hilter when we went to war. I remember, too, that Japan had been our ally and was our friend until we had to sacrifice some of the best men of this country by sending them up in Wirraways to defend our country against an aggressive Japan which was armed far better than we were, even though we always had the idea that Japan was incapable of modern armament. In relation to the conflict that developed in Europe, Russia and Germany had a non-aggression pact when Germany attacked Russia. So history has shown that having friends and neighbours has never protected a country. I think in this regard the old axiom applies, namely, that in international diplomacy there are never any permanent friends, nor are there ever any permanent enemies. I think that is a fact. 
I was interested to hear the figures quoted by  Senator Wriedt.  He mentioned the proportion of the gross national product spent on defence by countries such as Switzerland. When he did so a picture of the differences between Switzerland and Australia immediately sprang to my mind. Switzerland has no coastline at all and Australia, with its enormous area and enormous mineral resources, has an enormous coastline and a population not greatly in excess of that of Switzerland upon which to draw. I want to draw attention to just one set of circumstances which I feel it is fatal for Australia to ignore as world events are today. At this moment there is a war in the Middle East. There are wars in Laos and Cambodia and Thailand is under external pressure in some of her regions that are far distant from her major centres. Indonesia is in a state of instability. Indeed, at one stage her political system almost changed to one which is different from the one she has today. We have an enormous responsibility in New Guinea. We cannot ignore the political instability that exists in the Philippines. 
However, I do not want to refer to any of those situations. I want to give only one reason why this country has to be very careful to protect its own future in the Indian Ocean area. The reason I give is the Sino-Russian conflict that is taking place at this moment on the Manchurian border. Indeed, this conflict has been going on over a long period of years. It has forced both Russia and China to change their international policies so that they have sought to make friends with other countries because they fear a major conflict between themselves. I want to give a commonsense appreciation of what this means to Australia and her position in the Indian Ocean area. I am horrified when I hear people such as  Senator Wheeldon  make smart or clever remarks such as: How will they come here in sampans?' 
That is the standard of  Senator O  'Byrne's intelligence and his analysis of the situation. Yet he knows, as I know, that the Russian fleet in the Indian Ocean is the smallest of the Russian fleets. 

 -For Senator 0 'Byrne's information, the Russians have more than 75 conventional submarines and 70 nuclear powered submarines in that fleet alone. This does not take into account battleships, cruisers and other implements of war that are necessary to bring it up to strength. That is the smallest of the Russian fleets. Government senators say: How are they going to come here in sampans and how are they going to cut the Australian sea lanes which connect Australia with its main trading partners?' If honourable senators opposite are not trying to fool the public they are fooling themselves, and that also is dangerous. World diplomacy has trembled on 3 occasions in the last half a dozen years. The killing that is going on at this moment between Russian and Chinese troops on the Manchurian border could lead to a conflict that might even result in nuclear warfare. 
There are no friends and no enemies in international affairs. The key to victory for either Russia or China in a conflict between those 2 countries would be the economic power of Japan to produce the weapons of war. The Japanese economy and the use of her electronics industry, her shipbuilding industry and her capacity to produce all the articles required in war are the key to the success of any war in the Indian Ocean region, in the same way as the military strength of the United States in this area may be the key to countries respecting Australia's peace. If we are completely unprepared, where do we go? On what is the Japanese economy built today if it is not built on Australia's capacity to produce iron ore, bauxite, copper and nickel? The Japanese shipyards would not produce anything without Australian raw materials. Australian primary industry would be a key factor in any struggle that took place between any nations in the Indian Ocean area. Yet those who are supposed to be the leaders of this nation- men in Parliament- say we can depend only on resort to neighbours who are friends and who have peaceful intentions. If this factor is ignored in Australia's defence structure we are asking for trouble. It may not be that there would be any political intent at all by nations that came to war. 
We seek no aggression; nobody in this Parliament would think that we have in any shape or form ideas of aggression in the light of our numbers and capacity to build an adequate defence structure that will at least gain us the respect of friends or potential enemies. Those who attack us could very well be in a state of great friendship with us. Would that prevent them? Could that prevent them, if as a result of their own need to win a conflict, thrust upon them perhaps by somebody else, they had to control the economic resources which were pouring into Japan from the industries of this country? Of course, it would not. They may not even want our resources for themselves but they must deny them to their enemies. We, with our coastline, are being compared in terms of defence with countries that have no coastline at all. We with our enormous resources are compared with countries surrounded by major military nations that have recourse to atomic weapons, as many nations in Europe have today. 
This is a foolish dream that peace will automatically follow if you are weak- a dream which I shared before 1939 when I was an ardent pacifist. Those of us who were ardent pacifists were largely responsible for our situation when a nation was making protestations of friendship while its air force was winging towards Hawaii to strike the blow that involved us in a war with Japan. I recall the absolute need for air power to cover whatever naval resources we had. When the ' Repulse ' and the ' Prince of Wales ' were sent into the area to stop the Japanese advance they proved as puny as toy ships on a peaceful lake because they lacked air cover. Our Navy is complaining today that it does not have the right ships. It certainly has not aircraft to cover the naval engagements that may take place at any distance from the shores of Australia, and we are sitting back saying there is no need to be alert. 
The armed forces of this country, no matter what figures the Government may quote, have been withdrawn and reduced. The potential for tomorrow is being restricted all the time yet in this area the Government knows, as I know, that we must plan 10 years in advance even for air power alone to be able to cope with anything like modern defence forces. 
These are the reasons why I say that I for one as a politician in Australia would always counsel that we take adequate steps and make those sacrifices which are necessary to show to those from whom we may attract support that we are worthy of that support should anybody attack us in the course of a war that may be occurring somewhere else and we become involved merely because ours is the country which it is. The resources and the primary industries that we have make it essential that we should be in a state of preparedness. 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs inform the Senate whether Nola Garanamba's natural father in fact saw his daughter in Darwin? If so, did a government department pay his expenses from Maningrida to Darwin for the purpose of collecting his daughter? Was a government department or officer responsible for the air ticket which was necessary to return Nola to Maningrida? 
Is the Minister representing the Treasurer aware that the recent increase in interest rates ordered by the Labor Government will mean that home buyers will have their commitments already entered into, increased by from $1,000 to $2,000, averaging from $100 to $200 a year? Does the Minister also appreciate that this increase in payments must inevitably increase the profits of the money lending institutions, which will increase their obligation to pay higher income taxes? Appreciating the fact that no government would wish to increase its own income from taxation by placing this unfair burden on workers who are home buyers, will the Government at least allow the amount of all increases in interest payments on home purchases as an income tax deduction? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party, like everybody else, will support the second reading of the Meat Export Charge Bill. But that does not mean that the Bill is without weaknesses and that we do not have criticism, as other Parties do, of the general policies in relation to the primary industries of this country at the moment. They have been discussed rather extensively during the debate on this Bill. I want to take up the cudgels with  Senator O  'Byrne who has just resumed his seat. He painted a glorious picture for the people engaged in primary industry. I give him one concession and that is in relation to his honesty. When depicting the position of the meat producer he did not forget that the fellow did not have just the land. Like most other people, and particularly like most people in these types of industry in which a considerable amount of land is involved, he has a very extensive overdraft. It is ridiculous for Government supporters to say that they are acting in the interests of such people when they have suddenly upped the interest rates on overdrafts by 2 per cent. This will add an enormous cost to their other production costs. This has happened quite apart from the 1.6c per lb levy on beef that is exported. So it is a very inopportune time for the Government to suggest that it is all for the primary producer. 
Of course, I have pointed out on other occasions that this decision of the Government has affected not only primary producers. I have received many examples of other areas that have been affected. I was speaking only the other day to representatives of the fruit industry in Victoria. Those who have been producing fruits for canning for export are financially in a parlous condition. Again I take up the cudgels with  Senator O'Byrne  in relation to his remark that there is a guaranteed market. I remember when this was said about pears but only 1 2 months ago we were telling the producers to pull out their trees because the market suddenly disappeared. Any politician not engaged in primary industry would be very reckless in his statements if he accepted expert opinions about continued world markets for any particular primary product without taking into account the facts of history. The facts show that repeatedly these very optimistic anticipations do not come to pass. It is true that the export meat industry of this country appears to be in a very strong position at this point of time. One of my criticisms of the Bill is that the Government accepts that the meat industry is in a strong position. This charge is to be levied at 1 .6c per lb. No consideration is given to the price that will be paid for a pound of meat. I can recall my own experiences in the early days of my married life when I used to do some of the shopping, because at that time my wife also was working. I worked in a boot factory and I finished work before my wife finished work. I used to buy prime steak at 1 /- per lb, as it then was, or 10c per lb in today's currency. Of course, a levy of 1.6c on prime steak costing 10c per lb would be quite a considerable charge. Today prime steak costs- I am only guessing here- approximately $ 1 per lb in the local butcher shop. 
I thank the interjector for the expert information. So in a short period of time, comparatively speaking, the price has gone up 10 times. What if it goes up another 10 times or goes down 10 times in the next 10 or 1 5 years? If it has gone up 10 times in the last 10 or 15 years, surely it can come down again or it can go up another 10 times. Is it impossible for beef to reach the price of $10 per lb? With this Government in office you could make such a prediction. My goodness, the way in which inflation is going it will not take 1 5 years for beef to reach a price of $10 per lb; it might reach that price in 15 months. This could happen when we consider the history of the inflations that have occurred in various parts of the world; when reckless governments are not prepared to face the problems of inflation with sufficient responsibility to do something to overcome the problems. I could criticise the imposition of the levy of 1.6c per lb as being excessive at the present time, but of course it will not be excessive if the inflation rages on and if, in another 10 years, the price of meat is what we expect it to be. 
Another aspect of the matter is the way in which this Government has looked after primary producers. It has looked after them all right. Primary producers are staggering under the burden of being looked after by this Government. There have been 2 revaluations of the Australian dollar- one of 12 per cent and another of 5 per cent. I do not know how these revaluations affect the meat industry- I have yet to get around to that matter- but last week I was talking to people engaged in the fruit industry, and I come back to what I said earlier. The increased interest rates will cost the canned fruit growers in the Murray Valley $500,000 out of the profits that they are not making. These growers have to contribute to the co-operative canneries which can their fruit for export and so on, and they have huge overdrafts. The growers have to find an extra $500,000 in interest which this Labor Government, that is allegedly looking after their interests, has imposed as a result of increasing interest rates. Of course, at the same time the 2 revaluations have placed these growers' main competitors, America and South Africa- I have gained the impression that this Government does not like either of those nations very much- in a tremendously advantageous position on the markets of Europe because they can now sell their fruit virtually 25 per cent cheaper than the cost at which the Australian fruit hits the market. That is not assisting the fruit industry in this country. The way the Government is going it will wipe the industry out of existence. Surely nobody wants to be assisted to this degree by this Government. 
The revaluations of the Australian currency have had another effect on the fruit industry. Growers' returns have been depreciated by 30 per cent although their fruit is selling at a 25 per cent higher price on the British market. Their returns have come down in terms of Australian currency. But out of those reduced returns they have to meet an extra $500,000 in increased interest rates. Interest rates were increased as a result of the most stupid decision that a government of any country which is seeking to prevent inflation has ever made. The increased interest rates have crippled primary industries and impoverished working people who are struggling to buy homes. The Government has done this to its own people, but it turns around and says that it is in the interests of the people. 
There is no longer such a thing as interest rates. In this country today there is usury; there is no longer interest. You cannot describe 10 per cent on a home loan as interest; it is usury. In the past moneylenders were executed for charging rates of interest which this Government not only approves of but also inflicts upon the working people whom it is supposed to represent. My voice will always be raised in this chamber in this regard. But of course the hypocrisy of the situation is that 12 months ago when I made similar speeches members of the Labor Party who now are sitting silent got up, applauded me and said: 'Stop this interest going up to the extravagant rates of 7 per cent and 8 per cent'. But as soon as honourable senators opposite became the Government, in order to help the workers they increased interest rates to 10 per cent. They go around masquerading as people who have the interests of the workers at heart. 
There is a great deal more involved in this than those of us who are not experts in primary industry or beef production would know. The levy of 1.6c per lb seems to be a miserly charge, but the figures I have indicate that over a period of 3 years the levy will raise $85m. That is $85m which the meat producers who export from this country have not been paying up to the present time. This is the way in which you destroy the basic industries in Australia. In 1975-76 approximately 1,271,400 tons of meat will be exported from Australia. When one multiplies that figure by 2,240 to bring it down to pounds one begins to realise the huge sums and the huge poundage that are involved. Let us face it: We do not know at what price meat will be exported over the next 3 years. We know that internally the price of meat will be a lot higher if this Government remains in office much longer, because of the inflation that it is promoting every day of the week. We do not know what the export price will be or what the price abroad will be, but we will still impose a levy of 1 .6c per lb. 
I agree that the industry should be preparedand I understand that it is prepared- to accept the responsibility of meeting certain of the meat inspection costs. After all, this happens with chicken meat and many of the other things that we export. We have asked industries to contribute towards inspection services. In regard to these meat inspection costs, I fail to see the logic in fixing the price per lb at which meat is exported and not taking into consideration at all the price at which meat is actually exported. This charge could become so excessive as to completely break the industry if the price falls dramatically. Of course, it could become an insignificant charge. We could estimate now the cost of inspection of this meat for the next 3 years. 
But if the Government behaves in a certain way towards the 2 Bills that were passed in this Senate with our support only a week ago and suddenly goes soft, at the behest of the left wing unions, and suggests that incomes have nothing whatsoever to do with wages, nobody could estimate what the costs of meat inspections will be in 3 years. They could be double what they are estimated to be on today's wage rates. If this Government's idea of attacking inflation is to go to the people with a referendum containing 2 logical propositions that must be tied together if there is any hope of success at all, even on a temporary basis, in controlling inflation- and the Government will gerrymander the referendum before it is held because half of the Government will campaign against one proposition so that there will be no interference with the untrammelled expansion of wage rates- the estimation if costs of meat inspections made at this time might be completely unreal. I think that legislation such as we are discussing in the 2 Bills before us which concern primary industries should be given careful consideration by the Parliament of the nation. After all, the Parliament is supposed to lead the people, and not be led by them. We should see the problems that I have outlined and make allowances before the people feel the weight of them. 
I believe, of course, that a fixed charge would be a much more equitable way of allowing for fluctuations than what is being done at present where charges are based on weight which has nothing to do with prices or costs because both of these factors can fluctuate dramatically without having anything to do with the tonnage of a product the country may export. However, it seems that the industry is prepared to accept a charge to assist itself in this manner. We will be discussing in the Committee stage a series of amendments that will make some improvements in the Bill. I will leave my remarks on these matters until then. With the reservations that I have outlined about the effect that this legislation will have on primary industry generally in this country today, the Democratic Labor Party will, like all other Parties, support the second reading of the Bill. 
I will say a few words now because I wish to speak on the same matter and it will facilitate the debate if the Minister replies to both  Senator Young  and me. As the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party have heard the debate on this amendment up to this point, we are prepared to support the amendment.  Senator Laucke  has quoted estimations based on what seem to be authentic figures. We have as yet had no response from the Minister to justify the figure that to some extent appears to have been plucked out of the air. 

 Senator Laucke 's figures seem to indicate that there could be a surplus of $ 15m at the end of 3 years, and I am very serious when I say that if $ 15m of growers' money is to be tied up by the Government over a period of 3 years, the growers are entitled to receive interest on it. The money should not be placed in a trust fund and the growers should not be told, like the holders of savings bank accounts of less than $4,000 were told, that they can whistle for any increased rate of interest; that they are not going to get it but that the big men in the country will get it. For those reasons I should like the Minister to be very specific when he replies because at this point of time we feel disposed to vote for the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Can he inform the Senate of the total amount of money held by the Commonwealth Savings Bank and other banks in school savings accounts and money box banking schemes for children? 
As it is unlikely that any of these accounts exceed $4,000, does the Treasurer's agreement with the banks to maintain the increase in interest rates on housing loans at one per cent mean that these savings are subject to the 3.75 percent maximum interest on savings accounts which was agreed upon? With a rate of inflation exceeding 10 per cent and with other interest rates exceeding 9 per cent, does not this paltry return of 3.75 per cent on children's savings really mean that the Government is robbing the children's piggy banks in order to finance its programs, since this interest rate does not nearly compensate for the lost value of the savings? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party on this occasion is not in favour of the resolution to disallow this ordinance. The ordinance was brought down in June of this year and on that occasion we did lend our votes to its rejection. We studied the matter very deeply in Caucus at that time, as was explained by our then  Deputy  Leader,  Senator McManus.  We had examined maps of the area and acquainted ourselves as far as we possibly could with the circumstances of this rapidly growing area and decided at the time that we did not have sufficient knowledge. So we were guided largely by the decision that the Legislative Council made. We have since reviewed the whole matter. 
There have been a lot of things said in this debate tonight which I would have thought were unnecessary, for instance that you must be for or against the principle of land acquisition. Of course all political parties have at various times been in a favour of land aquisition. After all, we are standing at this very moment on land which was once acquired. But if the Australian Capital Territory had not been defined and acquired and if the development of Canberra had been left in the hands of private landowners who could reap the harvest of Government developers it is anybody's guess what some parts of Canberra would have been worth today. My Party has always had a very strong feeling that the defence of this country is of paramount importance. If ever there was an area of Australia which was revealed to have enormous weakness during the last war when Australia became directly involved in conflict for the first time it was the Northern Territory and particularly the area around Darwin with its sparseness of population. 
I want to compliment the previous Government on the development at Darwin that it set out to achieve. It did a very good job. Indeed the previous Government did it so well that at the time of its dismissal it was contemplating the very action that is being taken now. Darwin is set upon a peninsula and there is nowhere now for the city to develop other than towards these areas in question. It would appear to me that if today one is in favour of blanketing land areas around Albury-Wodonga to ensure that nobody capitalises on the development planned for that area- and I did not hear too many voices raised in this Parliament over that proposal- one must hold the same philosophy in respect of this area provided one is convinced that it is being followed with reasonable justice.  Senator Webster  referred to several cases of people who had written to him. They have written to me also. I have a huge file dealing with these people and have noted some of the things that perhaps  Senator Webster  has missed. It is true, as he says, that one person wrote about a daughter and her husband who acquired 5 acres of scrub country with a hut upon it. They had been unable to pay the high prices which prevailed in the more accessible areas of Darwin and which were brought about by the previous Government developing Darwin in the interests of Australia. People have been encouraged to go there. There has been a scarcity of land and that is why these people had that particular problem. They bought 5 acres of scrub land. 
The land is not of high quality and grazes few cattle. This does not seem to be an industry of any significant shape or form because it does not appear that the land is good enough for that industry to be conducted on a real commercial basis. Then one finds that someone had the foresight to acquire 4,800 acres of that land and one immediately says: 'I wonder what he bought it for.' I may be wrong but I think he was a very keen fellow and saw the development the Government was making in these areas of Darwin and saw also the potential. I think he will make a very good profit but I do not think he should be allowed to make millions at the expense of the young people whom we are trying to encourage to go to the Territory and settle in areas like Darwin in their own interests and at the same time in the interests of Australia. Something should be done, and not necessarily in the case of this 4,800 acreas only. I can only suspect because I do not know for certain, that there must be some people speculating in this area, otherwise human nature would not be what it is. 
Of course, and so is  Senator Webster.  I do not expect from anyone else a virtue which I do not hold. I would have been disappointed if I had been a speculator and found that I was to be restrained in the interests of the rest of the' community. I would probably have written to  Senator Webster  and told him of my troubles. But I do not know that that would be in the interests of the people as a whole. If this man was going to lose money, if he was being unjustly treated or was not getting something in return for his business instincts I perhaps would be all the way with  Senator Webster.  But that would not appear to be the case with 4,800 acres in an area that ultimately must be developed. I remember the development of Housing Commission areas in all the big cities which was made necessary by soldiers coming back from the war. There were areas around Melbourne which had been swamp land for years. Many people speculatively bought the land in a land boom era. Half of the land reverted back to the local councils because of unpaid rates because everything appeared to be so hopeless. Then a blanket was placed over the area and it was acquired by the Housing Commission. Roads were put through, the area was drained and the area was no longer swamp land. Suddenly everybody became interested to find out whether they still owned the land or whether theirs was land sold by the council for unpaid rates. There are stories of enormous injustice. In one of these areas today there is a huge shopping complex. It would never have been built if the Housing Commission had not gone there and developed the area. But I suppose there has been many a small landholder who today would look at the huge shopping complex and say: 'Gee, my land was worth a million'.  His  land was acquired by the government of the day. We can all find sad stories in this area. 
My Party after researching the subject found that there was an intention on the part of the previous Government to take action in respect of the land in question. Whether it would have been done in precisely the same way or in respect of the same area as a whole would have been a matter for decision by the government of the day. But some action would have been taken even if there had been no change of government. So it is rather foolish to take an entirely political attitude towards this matter. Whatever Government is acting and whatever the Department is advising should be done is surely in the best interests of the whole of the area. And because it happens to be an area where defence and intensification of population are so essential for the whole of Australia it must be done not only in the interests of the development of the city but also in the interests of Australia. In discussions with the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Enderby)  on this development we have found that leases are now being issued to those who hold blocks. This will ensure that they have some equity in those blocks in the future. They will be able either to build or further develop a house on that land or they will be given comparable land in the immediate area. Of course one cannot develop a home in the middle of what may be designed at some future stage as a main shopping complex in an area being developed. We cannot allow someone to hang on to one block in the middle of what might be a future Bourke Street. 
In those areas where it is decided that there will be development of schools, hospitals! shops and so on certainly the people who own blocks in that area may have to be given a lease over another block on which housing is possible. This is a matter of organisation and of ensuring that justice is done to all the people around the area who are making a contribution to the development of the area by deciding to settle in it. 
I thank  Senator Webster  for his help but I will not agree with him there. Can we possibly issue a plan for the whole area and acquaint everyone with what we are going to do? The clamour for increased prices would be enormous. Would  Senator Webster  sell his block if he saw the plan and discovered that his block was right where the Government was going to build a post office? He would want more for his land. All we would have would be a whole lot of dissatisfied citizens. How can we say to the people that they should have a right to advance knowledge of the plan for the area? Of course, the people who want to acquire blocks will want to acquire them in the most advantageous position. They will want to build their houses close to where the school is going to be. Immediately one would increase the price of land around the school. A certain amount of this will go on as the area develops; that cannot be avoided. But to do it at this stage in an area such as this, I believe, would be unwise. I respect  Senator Webster's  intelligence. I think that if he were in charge of this project he would be the first to say: 'I do not think we should be so foolish'. If one's land is acquired and one has an assurance from a responsible government agency such as the Department that, if perchance one cannot get the actual block for the reasons I have stated, one will be given a block of reasonable value and development potential for what one is sacrificing, with all things being taken into consideration, that is all right. 
A friend of mine had his house in the path of the new bridge across the port of Melbourne and he had to sell it and move. The Government took it over. I did not think that he was dealt with too generously, but certainly one could not accept the principle that four or five houses should hold up a development of that magnitude. He was never quite contented with what he received for his house, but in the development of a project such as that I suppose injustices are always felt by some people while others probably gain more than they would have ever received and are glad to be out of it. One cannot measure these things accurately from individual to individual. When we are in the position of government I think we should err on the side of generosity to people who are inconvenienced in the interests of the rest of the community, because the community is big enough to be generous. I hope that the Department has that in mind in this case. But that generosity should not extend, in the interests of the people who in the future will live in this area and help to develop it by buying blocks, to putting the land on the market at an almost impossible price or the maximum price that can possibly be wrung out of others ' pockets so that they then have to build sub-standard houses because the price of the land has been jacked up by speculators. 
For these reasons and on the basis of the assurances that have been given to us that these leases are being carefully considered, that a new approach has been taken to them and that better and more acceptable assurances have been given to the people, on this occasion we will not vote for the rejection of the acquisition but will support it. We support it on the lines I have already stated: The absolute essentiality that Darwin must progress and must become a great, major metropolis not only in the interests of the people of Darwin and in the interests of the people who hold this land but in the interests of Australia as a whole. 
Question put: 
That the motion  (Senator Webster's)  be agreed to. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Is the Minister aware that the previous Liberal Government, when it fixed interest rates on long term government securities in 1970 at 6.97 per cent agreed, for the first time, to a fixation of interest rates on savings banks accounts under $4,000 at 3.75 per cent? Does the Minister know that the previous Government maintained this unfair policy of penalisation of smaller accounts until its dismissal in December 1 972? Did the present Labor Government receive advice from the previous Government when it increased the long term bond rate to 8.5 per cent and compounded this injustice by continuing the interest rate on workers' savings at 3.75 per cent, or was this merely a coincidence? Will the Government review this injustice to help preserve some equity in workers savings now that the inflation rate each year is robbing them of more than oneeighth of their total savings? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party does not oppose this Bill. Indeed, it would be difficult to dispute the principles that are outlined in it concerning the transference of State public servants to the Commonwealth Public Service. I think that we would all be in agreement with that. Of course, we must all recognise the gradual shifting of responsibility from the State area to the Commonwealth that was an inevitable feature of the decision of the people of this nation in a referendum vesting in the Commonwealth powers in relation to this question. Perhaps it would have been wiser if that had happened many years ago. I say this: There are those who are expressing opinions- I suppose that in some areas they are valid- that the results of that referendum have not been carried into effect quickly enough. I point out that there could be areas in which that is true. But in the whole general problem of Aboriginal welfare and the improvement of the opportunities of these people to join meaningfully in the way of life of this nation, I believe that time is by no means the most important factor. 
Sentimentally, we would all like to see things done immediately. However, we are dealing with problems of which time itself is a part. They are problems that have their origin, perhaps, many centuries ago. It is now apparent to us that the attempts that were made by people in this country when there was the first awareness of a responsibility in this area were made in completely wrong directions. That is no criticism of the people of the day and the age who were the first people to recognise the responsibility and the need to do something. It is not surprising that, with hindsight, we see that they made many errors. We had the fundamental error of a handout type of policy that was carried on for far too long. I believe that we must all accept a fair share of responsibility for that. I am not trying to attribute blame to anyone, because blame in this area is of no advantage to the Aborigines. They are the people to whom we are now trying to give opportunities that perhaps they should have received previously. 
However, I think that there should be some care in considering the principles that are laid down in this Bill. I accept the necessity that there should be a transfer of some State public servants, a desire on their part to transfer to the Commonwealth and a need for the Commonwealth to obtain those who have been trained in the areas concerned. But it would not be wise to denude the States of all their expertise because State responsibility must and will continue. There are many people who need assistance who are not Aborigines in the true sense of the word nor Aborigines in the sense that it will be the 
Commonwealth's responsibility to deal with them largely. There are many people now who for generations have been fringe dwellers of the suburban areas in several of our big cities. They present a completely different picture. They require a completely different attitude towards whatever assistance is rendered to them than the other people concerned in this problem who are spread over areas further north and other areas. I do not think that it takes long for anybody to appreciate that there is not one simple single problem in this area. There is a problem that perhaps in the beginning had a common origin. But it has branched out into so many facets today that there is a need in particular localities for legal expertise and a local touch. 
The State governments are perhaps closer to the people in some of these areas than is the Commonwealth Government in trying to deal with the diverse problems of the Torres Strait Islanders and the suburban dwellers around the cities such as Melbourne, Sydney or even those clustered around the more rural areas such as Warrnambool in Victoria. Three distinctly different types of people have developed today because of 100 years or so of different environments in which they have lived. One separate group is the Aborigines who live in the far north of Western Australia and the Northern Territory and who live under an entirely different set of circumstances and have to face different problems emanating from those circumstances. They perhaps have a common background with other Aborigines, but they pose a completely different picture which requires an approach completely different from the approach which would be adopted in some localised city areas. For that reason I say a word of warning to the Government. I do not suggest that it is the Government's intention to attract officers from the States. The Government should not be over-anxious to attract State officers. The States have a need and a requirement for skilled officers. The Government should not seek to recruit this staff into Federal departments. Obviously the greatest amount of funds will be spent in future by the Federal departments, despite the generous opportunities that are now to be extended to the States because of the reawakening of requirements in this field and because of the need to provide the opportunities. 
I join  Senator Laucke  in expressing some regret at other stories which we heard today. It would be fallacious to think that the attempts to establish for these people- for themselves and in their own right- business ventures which would provide an opportunity to enter into the type of environment which we have would be successful from the beginning. If we expect the ventures to be 100 per cent successful we would be impossibly unfair to the people who are trying to assist them and to the people themselves. I believe that we must expect a great deal of failure. Those failures will not all be the responsibility of those to whom we are endeavouring to give the opportunity. Mistakes will be made by those to whom we give the responsibility for being an immediate contact with the people and for being immediately responsible for the assistance. Many a man has gone bankrupt several times in his lifetime. Some of our great grazing millionaires have been declared bankrupt, but they have finally succeeded in making fortunes in their chosen field of activity. We must keep these things well in mind as new ideas are tried- and they must be tried, even if they fail and fail again. I believe that if weaknesses are found in administration they must be stamped out Ve are dealing in an area in which we can no longer afford to have any more failures on the administration side than we can possibly help. 
Do not let us expect too much of the people to whom we are granting the opportunity. If we do, we will do them a great injustice and ourselves a great disservice. This problem represents one of (he great challenges of this day and age for Australians. It is ours because we have inherited it. It is ours because we have perhaps been too slow in realising it is there and in tackling it with the depth of intelligence with which it should have been tackled in the first place. I believe that a previous Minister,  Mr Wentworth,  was one of the first persons who began to move away from the idea of handout policies and towards a more constructive and realistic approach to the whole affair. 
I do not indulge in criticism in this area. Many have failed in the past. Many will not achieve their goals in future. But it is an area in which all must strive and use their experience, their knowledge and their intelligence. Political parties and political expediency should be left out of the matter because the question far transcends politics and political parties. Who did this or who did not do that for the Aborigines is all a part of Australia 's history. The people who are criticised the most today are the people who were the first to attempt to do something. Because their attempts were not headed in the right direction we, with the experience of hindsight, can say that they were wrong. We know that they were wrong but at least they were trying to do something when nobody else was trying to do anything at all. None of us should forget the lesson which the history of our nation teaches us, because in this area there is still a lot that we do not know- more than we think. Therefore, we must be fair to everybody. We must not try to take too much political advantage of attempts which are made and which do not succeed 100 per cent. We must remember the common goal and objective which surely all of us must have. We support the Bill and hope that it will have a speedy passage. 
-I move: 
Insert the following paragraph: " (b) by omitting from paragraph (a) the words 'seven other Judges' and substituting the words 'nine other Judges'.". 
In order to overcome the objection of  Senator James  McClelland to this amendment, it is the intention of the Democratic Labor Party to suggest to the Opposition that it includes in its amendment after the word 'organisation' the words 'or eligible to be a member'. As a trade union official I have been requested on several occasions to attend a factory where a person had refused to join the union. At the employer's request I spoke to him to try to get him to join the organisation. Some people have religious reasons for not wishing to join. They become conscientious objectors. Unions adopt different techniques in trying to overcome the problem raised where an individual is genuine in his beliefs. Some people belonging to particular religious sects will not join a union at all. An employer does not wish to see this plant held up and is only too happy to have a union official talk to a chap under those circumstances if he feels that the matter is likely to disrupt his plant. The employee is not a member of an organisation at that stage but is eligible to be a member by virtue of the fact that he works in the plant. It would assist both sides of the industrial relationship if it were part of the Act that a union official could talk to an employee who was a member or who was eligible to be a member of an organisation. 
The union official may meet other circumstances. For example the employee might have recently come into the industry or come back into the industry and might not have had time to join the union. If he is a new employee a question may be raised as to his margin of skill but the amendment would mean that the union official could not speak to him because he was not a member of the union at that time. He may have left the union or industry 10 years before and not have been working in the industry again sufficiently long for the shop steward to have interviewed him. These questions can often arise in industrial relationships on the very first morning of a person 's employment if he is a new hand. Invariably if he is working in the industry he is eligible to be a member of the union and if the words I have suggested were accepted by the Opposition and placed in the amendment it would cover the purposes the Opposition seeks and meet the objections raised by  Senator James  McClelland. 
In an attempt to restore the harmony which has not as yet disappeared and which I hope will not disappear, I point out that we have different ideas in relation to this clause. We are not in favour of the amendment and,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  I seek your guidance. I think that at this stage it would be necessary for me to give notice of a further amendment. Would that be the case? 
No. Is that the circumstance? At any rate, I give notice at this point of a further amendment which I understand can now be distributed. It has been given to the clerks. We do not share the view that there may be no necessity for this amendment. In the area of industrial relations enormous sums of money can be lost and industries can be held up, sometimes for long periods, once a dispute has really started. Perhaps this could be avoided in the early stages if there were immediate access to the facilities of arbitration. The judges in this jurisdiction are not necessarily young men. Because of the very nature of the experience which is required of them, they are usually not so young as perhaps they themselves would like to be. They are subject to the usual limitations of the flesh, particularly as the years begin to pass, and it is not always possible for all judges to be available. We believe that the expense involved in having more judges would be as nothing when compared with the industrial harmony which could be achieved. If it is felt that there is a shortage of judges which in some way is likely to delay and cause further irritation and aggravation of industrial disputations, that situation should be remedied. The cost in itself is virtually nothing when compared with the cost of a major industrial dispute which may develop if there is an insufficiency of arbitration available. 
We do not agree with the points made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  that we base our consideration on the sitting hours of judges, any more than one with a sense and a knowledge of the functions of Parliament and the responsibilities of its members would consider only the sitting hours of members of parliament. One cannot take the sitting hours of judges and try to extract from the result the amount of work that they actually do. It could very well be that a judge will spend days considering the evidence in a case which took one day to submit in the court. He would compare the evidence with previous records and judgments and, of course, when he had arrived at a conclusion which, in his wisdom, was based on the evidence placed before him and which he thought was a fair and reasonable conclusion to the dispute, he would devote himself to writing a judgment and the justification for that judgment. 
I think it would be unfair even to bother to research the sitting hours of judges, any more than we should try to assess the responsibility or value of lawyers when we pay the bill for a divorce court hearing on the basis of the number of moments, sometimes, that the lawyer appeared in court in the course of the hearing of the case. We do not accept that reasoning because we know that there is prejudice in the community, to which I must say that I am sometimes weak enough to subscribe, that lawyers are always astonishingly overpaid. Perhaps I feel that because I do not happen to be a lawyer. I would not in any way try to define, without more expertise than I possess, their responsibilities. I say this in regard to judges also. 
As a copy of the amendment of which 1 gave notice has probably been distributed by now, I inform the House that our proposition is to omit from the paragraph (a) the words 'seven other Judges' and to substitute the words 'nine other Judges' in lieu thereof. We feel that it would be a mistake for the Parliament to give an unrestricted power to the Minister to be able to appoint judges at will or to meet circumstances. It is abdicating too much to the responsibility of the Minister. We believe that at this point of time perhaps it can be shown that, because of the new Government itself, there is a need for more Arbitration Court judges. It is for the Government to answer whether or not it is its policy that brings about this requirement. I point out that there does seem to have been an upsurge of industrial disputes that have occurred at great cost to the nation during the last 10 months or so. Be that as it may, if it is the will and the wish of the Government that it should obtain the industrial harmony that we all seek by the appointment of several judges, we feel that that course should be open to it. We do not feel that it should have a completely open door to appoint as many as it will. But at least there should be an extension of the appointments that it can make at the moment. We believe that the addition of 2 judges, at least in the immediate future, should meet the requirements. Of course, it is always open to the Government if it finds that it has too many or too few judges after experiencing the effect of the amendment we will offer, to come back to the Parliament and make the necessary adjustments in the legislation itself. I give notice that at the appropriate time I will move the amendment which has been circulated in my name. 
I hate to disappoint  Senator Wright,  but the Australian Democratic Labor Party has no intention of supporting this amendment. 
Does the honourable senator want us to support it? 
If the honourable senator wants me to do so, I will sit down. In the whole history of the arbitration system no such restriction has been placed upon the selection of those who shall be inspectors in these areas. When arbitration was implemented it was a new area. It was thought advisable at that time- I believe that it is still advisable- that the people who administer these things, particularly as inspectors who are seeking out breaches of the award, should not necessarily be people who are trained in something that has nothing to do with industry in which the great majority of breaches of the award take place. Why should such people be people who are trained in the Public Service? 
There are many men who have given enormous service in a completely satisfactory way and proved the point. One who comes immediately to mind is the late Jack Roberts who at one time was an official of the Federated Moulders' Union of Australia. At one time he was  President  of the Victorian branch of the Australian Labor Party. From the time of the split between the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democratic Labor Party he was State treasurer of the DLP. He was an inspector of the Arbitration Court and he had been appointed to that position- from the Union. It is not only in the area of inspectors that such appointments have been made. It has been rather traditional that this should happen even in the field of arbitration itself. From both sides of the industrial field men have been selected on a State and Federal basis to sit as  chairman  of wages boards. There are a sprinkling of public servants who have aspired to and attained this office. But there are also trade union officials and representatives of employer organisations who have done so. Men from industry or commerce have been appointed. All have proved themselves able and worthy appointees once they took the necessary obligation upon themselves. They proved that they were quite capable of dissociating themselves from any previous connections and of administering the job in the manner in which it was intended to be administered. 
We believe that the Act should contain a provision which induces people from a broad section of the community to submit themselves for appointment and to aspire to positions of this type. We believe that it gives more flexibility. It certainly encourages a great deal of trust by those people on both sides for whom arbitration has been created- commerce and industry, and the organised union movement. Today the trade unions expect to provide appointees to these positions. The unions have every confidence in the inspectors who bring down the wrath of the unions at times when the unions do not get what they think they should have got. No one can point the finger at any of these appointees and say that he has not carried out his job effectively and with great integrity; that he has not succeeded in severing himself from any previous associations; that he has given biased decisions or in any way attempted to persecute one side or the other in the commercial bargains which go to make up industrial relations. We believe that there is no proof of any requirement to change the patterns of the past and we have no intention of supporting the amendment. We will support the clause as it stands.  
I support the original proposition moved by  Senator Kane  and also the amendment to that proposition moved by  Senator Byrne  on behalf of  Senator Kane.  I think that everyone who has taken part in this debate has spoken most sincerely. However, I think that they completely overlooked certain facts in their condemnation of  Senator Kane's  motion, particularly in regard to the opening clauses of that motion. I would like to remind honourable senators that for evil to triumph it is only necessary that honest men remain silent. I deplore the attitude to international events today that one must shut one 's eyes and not observe the obvious, that one must pretend that what is going on is not happening because in that way we will get world peace. I do not believe that we will get world peace that way at all. Indeed, incidents that take place around the world today show quite clearly that it is only when things that are wrong are dragged out into the open and condemned by honest people throughout the world that nations that are attempting to engage in these acts for the promotion of their own power basis abandon their efforts and begin to conciliate and lean towards an attitude of world peace. 
It is wrong to ignore the part that the Soviet Union is playing in the Middle East conflict or the part that it is still playing in the Korean conflict. As I suggested by way of interjection to the Special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee),  it is wrong to ignore the fact that the United Nations is still at war in Korea. It is true that there is a ceasefire agreement in that country, but there is no negotiated peace agreement. Even today representatives of the Soviet Union appear continually at peace conferences to conduct negotiations with members of the United Nations. If anyone doubts that this conflict is still going on one may venture to ask what these representatives are doing there? If these are the facts of the circumstances that apply in Korea today, surely we should not blush when we state these facts. If we do we shall not succeed in allaying those things which can create conditions that can lead to a major conflict in the world today, a conflict which we all want to avoid. 
I revert to the opening sentences of the resolution moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to prove that we in no way have attempted to apportion blame. But it is sheer stupidity to want to talk about this question and to shut one 's eyes to the facts that caused the conflagration that at present is going on in the Middle East. The resolution moved on behalf of my Party refers to the present conflict, but I will go back further than that. The first part of our resolution states: 
1 ) That the Senate, noting reports- 
that, in the hours immediately before the outbreak of war in the Middle East, the Israeli Government with US diplomatic help sought to avert hostilities, 
We must decide whether or not that statement is a fact. The resolution continued: 
that Israel offered assurances to both the Egyptian and Soviet Government of its peaceful intentions in the hope of preventing an outbreak of hostilities, and 
that, despite these Israeli efforts, UN observers have reported that it was Egyptian and Syrian forces which commenced hostilities by attacking Israeli positions an the ceasefire lines along the Suez Canal and the Golan Heights, 
Surely it is not provocative in our effort to persuade the Senate to express our concern to the United Nations to recount what was said by the United Nations observers. Surely the United Nations cannot be an influence in creating peace in this area if it sits blindly with its hands over its eyes so that it cannot see what is actually happening in the world. If this happens no one will listen to what is said by a powerful body such as the United Nations. 
I said that I would refer to what happened prior to the outbreak of the present conflict. I would like to refer to what has happened since the Six-Day War took place. We must spare a moment to consider these events because we would not have a conflict in the Middle East now if the Six-Day War had not taken place. We should refresh our memories about the circumstances existing when the Six-Day War broke out. Those circumstances were that Nasser, who led the Arab nation, was supplied with the most sophisticated armaments of warfare by the Soviet Union; he closed the Suez Canal; he demanded the withdrawal of the United Nations forces from the Gaza Strip thus cutting off the Straits of Tiran from the Israelis and placed 
Israel in the situation where she was being encircled by a Nasser-led Arab nation which was making most boastful statements about its intention to wipe out completely the Israeli nation. Israel- perhaps wrongly on that occasionsought a peaceful solution by consultations with the major powers- that is all on the record- and finally, when she seemed to be abandoned and standing alone in this isolation that was gradually being forced upon her, launched herself against the Arabian forces that were gathering and wiped them out of existence within 6 days. She established the lines which now exist. In our motion we do not suggest that it is Israeli territory. We define the lines factually as they are. The lines which Israel established are the ceasefire lines, as we mentioned in our motion. So this war began 6 years ago. 
The Soviet Union then established in the Arabian states up to 20,000 military experts who were advising and training in the use of still more sophisticated armoury and weapons which it had supplied and still continues to supply.  Senator Wheeldon  drew attention to what is a fact today- the conflict of interests. The Soviet Union is still supplying arms to the Arab nations, and America is trying desperately to catch up by supplying arms to Israel. But one must pause there and ask: 'What are the intentions?' In regard to this conflict of interests, what specific interest has the United States of America in supplying arms to Israel? In a commercial sense, probably America is far more interested in the other side in the conflict. One must ask the reasons why America allows herself to get into the situation where she is only endeavouring to match with what the Soviet Union has already supplied and is continuing to pour into an area of conflict. 
A sinister note has crept into the reports that we have received. No doubt this could be checked by the United Nations although the Australian Democratic Labor Party can only reiterate the reports that have appeared in the newspapers, although they seem to be authentic reports. Those reports seem to establish that the Soviet Union has supplied equipment to the Arabs and has trained the Arabs in the use of that equipment. This equipment was used by the Arabs in the attack which was made against the Israeli positions, and we are not saying whether they were legally occupied positions as a result of the Six-Day War. The Soviet Union then informed Israel that the attack was likely to come. I am only an Australian who happens to take some interest in international affairs, but here was a situation in which a country was endeavouring to provoke a war to which there would be no immediate solution; a war that could well follow the pattern of the Korean War in which the United Nations was and still is involved; the type of war that is and has been crippling Western democracies as they are created in country after country. By a strange coincidence, the same influence seems to have been exerted all the time. 
Are we to ignore these facts? Are we to endeavour to establish peace by blinding our eyes because we believe that if we crawl on our bellies we are more likely to get peace than if we stand up like men and reiterate the facts, and let it be known that we observe what is happening and are not trying to fool ourselves and everybody else with an imaginative picture of doves of peace flying around the world? With the enormous supremacy that Israel established in the Six-Day War, she could have gone far beyond the lines she established. Are we not entitled to think for ourselves and to say that at least it was a gesture that she had no real intention to occupy the territories of others, other than in the sense of occupying what was necessary in order to ensure her own security? Now the situation has changed with the pouring in of the extra equipment. Israel gets the tip-off that action is to be taken against her, but this time she restrains herself from taking the initial advantage and, small as she is and surrounded as she is, allows the advantage to go to the other side. 
I think that Israel is a country that has not shut her eyes to what is happening in the world. She is one of the few countries today that is standing up to her responsibilities to herself and to the rest of the world. Israel is not weak in her capacity to defend herself in spite of the enormous strength of the forces that surround her. She is becoming really the bulwark for world peace, although there are those who would attempt to brand her as an aggressor. This is a nation that is capable of taking care of herself; this is not an Australia that is strong in her own right and able to protect the enormous natural wealth that is to be found in one of the largest continents in the world with one of the smallest populations. Israel is not Australia, she can stand on her own feet. Israel stands in far more difficult circumstances than we know. 
This conflict in the Middle East could be an enormous threat to world peace. I warn the leaders of the nation who sit in the Senate- after all, we humbly accept the privilege to be able to sit here among those who are supposed to lead this nation- that they should not allow Australia, with its enormous natural wealth and its present situation in world affairs, to become so tragically weak that it cannot defend itself in the world as it is today; in a world where there has been a ceasefire in Korea for 20 years against United Nations forces but where no peaceful settlement has yet been reached; in a world where there is a Vietnam. 
There are those who want to take no sides in this conflict in the Middle East, although they were very ready to take sides against those who did not step into North Vietnam and were prepared to walk under banners calling for the success of Ho Chi-Minh who led North Vietnam against South Vietnam. I warn the leaders of the nation that with Australia becoming as weak as she is today, she too could become one of the greatest challenges to world peace. The weaker a country becomes, the greater the danger to world peace. Australia has a lesson to learn from the situation in the Middle East. All that Israel has tried to do has been merely to find a place for herself in the affairs of the world. Perhaps what Israel has done, as  Senator Wheeldon  rightly said, was not done with complete justice to everybody concerned, but it is an established fact today that Israel has created a miracle in an area of the world where people had to grub from the hostile environment only the barest necessities of life. Israel has transformed the area which she occupies into an economic success beyond even her own dreams. She has shown that she is prepared to stand and to die rather than to have it taken from her. I have no hesitation in saying that I will take sides and that I will express my view on this issue. I will not take sides by blaming the Arab nations because I feel that they are but pawns in a bigger pattern that is developing to keep the world in a state of semi-peace and semi-war, a state of constant violation of countries and borders with incidents which stretch the economies of the nations of the world in their endeavours to manufacture and keep pace with the necessity to produce the sophisticated equipment they need for defence in these areas. 
I believe, and I say it here- I will say it anywhere- that this is but a small part of an overall pattern and that the Arab nations, whilst they may have some rights and some problems that should be aired before the United Nationssome privileges which should be granted to them and some rights restored to them- when they are equipped as they have been equipped for these purposes and when they are urged on and then their opponents are informed of what is about to happen, they should realise that they are being used as pawns, that nobody wants anyone to win this war, that other nations want the wars to go on and on even when there are no more dividends in the actual conflicts to ensure that there shall not be stabilised peace. We have seen a ceasefire in Korea and a negotiated ceasefire in Vietnam. But there has been no cessation of hostilities in Laos, Cambodia or Thailand. Is it the aggressive Americans and Australians who are maintaining these circumstances in these various theatres throughout the world? I say to Government supporters: 'Do not sit there with your eyes shut. You have a responsibility to open them and you have a responsibility to speak of what you see'. And if we do not see through the same eyes, my eyes see it that way. These are the events and changes that I see happening in international affairs today. 
I believe that the proposition which the Democratic Labor Party has placed before the Senate is a real proposition. It is not one which starts with an apology that we will not face the facts. It starts with the facts from the moment the first shots were fired in this particular conflict, which is what we are dealing with at the moment. We are saying: 'Here are the facts, let us achieve a ceasefire'. We amend that proposition to meet the very latest circumstances and we have been challenged on it. We say that we should try to enforce the United Nations ceasefire proposal which is based on direct negotiations for a Middle East settlement between the Arab governments and Israel; and the special Minister of State  (Senator Willesee)  who has the advantage of having just visited the United Nations says we are wrong, that that is not what was negotiated. I would like him to explain to me the meaning of paragraphs 3 and 4 of resolution 242 of 1967 which was adopted by the Security Council at its meeting on 22 November 1967. These paragraphs say: 
Requests the Secretary-General to designate a Special Representative to proceed to the Middle East to establish and maintain contacts with the States concerned in order to promote agreement and assist efforts to achieve a peaceful and accepted settlement in accordance with the provisions and principles in this resolution; 
Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Security Council on the progress of the efforts of the Special Representative as soon as possible. 
The Minister referred to that, and if that does not mean direct negotiations between Israel and the Arab states then I would like to know who are the states concerned in the Middle East through whom we have to promote and maintain the peace of the area. I rest the case there. I believe that we must open our eyes and then say what we think about what we observe. The DLP motion is not only in the interests of the people in the area itself who have become involved on this occasion but it is also in the interests of world peace. If Government supporters will listen to us they will learn that the motion is in the interests of the future security and the peace of this nation also for we too are gradually drifting into this whirlpool where our own weakness will be an attraction to the violence which is spreading to this very rich area of the earth's surface which has to date escaped. 

 -Mr President - 
I wish to speak in favour of  Senator Murphy's  motion,  Mr President.  The members of another place have seen fit to resolve that they should confer with us at a joint meeting on this matter of the site of a new and permanent parliament house. Members of both Houses of this Parliament have argued about this matter for years. It will never be new, it will never be permanent, it will never be at all the way things are going. We have received a positive indication from people in another place that they want to meet with us and what has happened? The issue of where we should meet has become highly critical. I believe that the Parliament of the State of Victoria was generous enough to remove itself to the Exhibition Building in Melbourne so that this institution could use it facilities. Why has so much emphasis been placed upon the importance of where we meet when this institution has not always met in this building? I think what the institution does and the brains it has are a lot more important than the furniture in the building or the venue of a meeting. 
If there are insufficient public galleries in either of the Houses of this Parliament to accommodate another 60 members, I do not know where we can hold such a meeting. It has been suggested that we could even meet in the parliamentary dining room. We probably would be more comfortable meeting in it than we are at present in the slum conditions under which we work in this building. Although a new wing has been added to this building some members of Parliament still have to share a room. If both of the people who share a room receive deputations at the same time one has to sit outside in the corridors because the office is not commodious enough. In the under-privileged nations to which we make great subscriptions to help them build their parliament houses and so on an ordinary member has a suite of offices. I am ashamed to have to take visiting dignitaries from abroad into my parliamentary office. I had more dignity in the Parliament of the State of Victoria than I have in the Commonwealth Parliament. 
I wish to make a positive suggestion about this matter. It is a fact that there has been a barrier against progress being made with this proposal. Although attempts have been made to start something they have been without success. The other place has now put forward the suggestion that we should all get together and talk the thing over. What are we going to do? We are going to be like a lot of old fuddy-duddies and say that there is no proper place in which to meet, that it would be beneath our dignity to meet in such a fashion and that the other place might take advantage of us because of its superior numbers. We will not achieve anything by sitting around waiting for a new parliament house to drop as the gentle rain from heaven upon the place beneath. We will achieve something only when there is sufficient brains, initiative and courage in this institution to let the people outside know precisely what circumstances prevail. I am sure the people would support us if we were to do so. They want a parliament house that is worthy of the nation. 
Proper facilities should be provided not only to members of Parliament but also to staff. As a former trade union official I would have promoted a strike if members of my organisation were asked to work in a boot factory under the same conditions as people are working in Parliament House in Canberra. We who are responsiblethe members of Parliament- are doing nothing about improving the conditions. All we are doing is arguing about where we should meet and whether we should talk to other people who have the same responsibilities as we have. I am all for the proposition that if somebody wants to meet us in a joint meeting and talk about this matter we should do so. When we do get together and talk I will put forward my views as to where the new and permanent parliament house ought to be and how quickly it ought to be started. I agree with everything contained in  Senator Murphy's  motion. I certainly agree with paragraph (c). I believe that planning of the new parliament house should commence immediately. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that for 1 974 the National Health and Medical Research Council has not renewed an annual grant of $13,000 to enable a medical research team to proceed with investigations of Huntington's chorea and that the leader,  Dr Colin  Brakenridge, has announced the impossibility of proceeding with his team? As this mental disease is hereditary and usually does not reveal itself until middle age it creates great personal tragedies in the lives of people who live in doubt but who may never be affected. Will the Minister give consideration to a direct government grant of a paltry $13,000 as it is more likely to ensure national sanity than the expenditure of $ 1.25m on the painting, 'Blue Poles'? 
-I rise to speak on the matter raised by  Senator Keeffe  as I was one of the senators who accompanied him to Lockhart River, Bamaga, Weipa, Iron Range which I understand is located near Lockhart River, and to Rockhampton. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Environment visited all these places in one week. The Committee consisted of  Senator Keeffe,  as  Chairman, Senator Bonner  and myself. We were accompanied by the secretary and the assistant-secretary of the Committee. According to my diary the Committee arrived as Lockhart River on Tuesday 30 October. If my memory serves me correctly when we arrived we were met by the then manager of the reservation who was seeing his wife and child off for Sydney. I had the impression that they were going to Sydney on leave although I understood that the manager was not going back to that area. Statements were made in the Queensland Parliament about the visit of the Committee to the Lockhart River area on 30 October. Nothing occurred on that day that could have in any way incited anybody to any acts of violence or anything else against the managers of the reserve. Nothing occurred that would have caused anybody to resign. Feelings were most friendly and co-operation was excellent as it was throughout the whole visit. As a matter of fact, the only people who were entitled to be short-tempered at all were members of the staff of the Committee, although they may have been responsible to some degree for this because the program they set us meant that we often started at 6 o'clock in the morning and finished up still interviewing Aborigines and talking to people sometimes as late as II o 'clock at night. It was a week of intensive work for the Committee. 
On all the occasions when I have accompanied  Senator Keeffe  anywhere among the Aboriginal people he has behaved himself with the utmost decorum and has very properly represented this Senate and the Committee. He and I may not agree completely on all attitudes and aspects of the problem as we see it. I do not associate myself with his opinions and the conclusions that he has arrived at on different issues. I feel that it is the duty of Senate committees to find out information and not to commit itself to drawing conclusions as it may appear that the Committee is presenting itself as being already prejudiced in particular areas. I denounce as completely untrue any suggestion that  Senator Keeffe  acted in any way without complete propriety and decorum when I was with him on Tuesday 30 October when we visited Lockhart River, on any occasion at any of the areas that we visited during that week or on any other occasion when the Senate Committee on Social Environment has conducted its investigations. In that regard I support what  Senator Keeffe  has said to the Senate tonight. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Is the Minister aware of an unfair hardship that has arisen in the payment of the $1,000 bounty to re-engaging servicemen? Have over 5,000 men qualified for this bounty? Have a small number- slightly in excess of 100 men- been disqualified and of those disqualified are a much smaller number excluded from receiving the bounty because their enforced retirement at 55 years of age leaves them short by less than one month of the 3 years re-engagement service necessary to qualify? Can the . Minister give some consideration to such cases, as some men excluded have a total service of from 20 to 30 years as against some of those eligible having less than 10 years total service? Is it possible for eligibility to be denied after 30 years service because enforced retirement at 55 years leaves a serviceman one to five days short? 
In directing a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, I refer to a statement made by the Minister appearing at page 3219 of the House of Representatives Hansard in which he said that for three out of four families, including those in which there is a working wife, the proposed national health plan would be cheaper than the present system. Does that statement take into account the extra tax to be paid if a levy of 1.3S per cent is itself not deductable as present medical benefit subscriptions are? Will the Minister table for the information of honourable senators the basis for his statement and the statistical information supplied to him by his advisers that prompted the conclusions stated? 
-I enter this debate only for the purpose of extracting from the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  some further information on a statement that he gave to the Senate. He said that 80 per cent of the students attending universities come from the upper and middle class groups. I am wondering whether he could inform the Senate what income places a person in a middle or upper income group and what income places a person in a low income group. If we exclude the age pensioner groups which, of course, are unlikely to have children qualifying for university education, from which group does the remaining 20 per cent of students come? I refer to those left after taking 80 per cent of the students from the upper and middle class groups. 
-I wish to continue the point that I made earlier as the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  did not have time to conclude his answer to it and obviously did not understand the intent of my question in view of the statement he made at the conclusion of his reply to the second reading debate. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Minister inform the Senate whether Miss Nola Garanamba 's natural father did, in fact, see his daughter in Darwin; if so, did a Government Department pay his expenses from Maningrida to Darwin for the purpose of collecting his daughter. 
Was a Government Department, or officer, responsible for the air ticket necessary to return Miss Garanamba to Maningrida. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party supports the Bill. We are pleased that the Bill contains a provision which makes allowance for the fact that the policies of the previous Government, the present Government and maybe the succeeding government on matters affecting the economy of the nation are such that we must expect continued inflation. A provision in the Bill makes it possible for the 11c per tonne which is expected to be imposed to be extended to 1 5c per tonne to make allowance for inflation. As long as the previous Government, the present Government or the future government continues a policy of higher interest rates, which must add to the wealth of the rich and the poverty of the poor, as a means of curing inflation, we will be beset with inflation. 
It is wise to make provision in this BUI for the collection of another 4c a tonne at any particular time to allow for inflation. It is wrong to say that the industry itself should be providing the whole of the funds for the future research conducted in relation to it. As I understand it, whatever funds are provided by the industry are matched by the Commonwealth Government. That does not mean that the Government pays for the research. That is another illusion that whichever Party is in power always seems to run away with. They think that they are being generous to the industry and that the government is providing the money. Of course, what they are doing is transferring the contribution from the rest of the taxpayers- the people of this country. They make their contribution not only in the interests of this industry and those engaged in it, nor even in the interest of this country alone but also iri the interests of the whole world. We must all face up to the probability that in the future the world must learn to produce the maximum amount that it is possible to produce from the resources it has in order to cope with the ever narrowing gap between the production of sufficient food and the requirements of the people who populate the world. 
The taxpayers of this country who make a contribution and the wheat growers who make a contribution to assist their own industry and, incidentally, themselves, are at the same time making a contribution to the world economy, to the future needs of that economy. That is what they do when they make a provision such as this to improve the efficiency and the capacity of the industry to produce. We have so many examples of this that it is not necessary for me to reiterate them to show precisely how the capacity of the world to produce can be expanded by the application of the knowledge and the ingenuity of which man is capable. Probably this is an argument that can be used in reply to those people who prattle about zero population growth. That is an absurdity particularly in an under populated country such as the one that we have the great privelege to occupy. It is ridiculous when you realise how much knowledge we have added to reach the situation that we have reached today. This has enabled us to improve the capacity of the world to produce the requirements of such people who prattle ridiculously about the need in a country like Australia to adopt zero population growth. Of course, it is obvious to any person charged with a responsibility on behalf of others, as members of Parliament should be, that this country must reach its full potential not only in its own interests and those of its people but also in the interests of the world. An under populated Australia is a curse to mankind and the whole world. Those who promulgate this philosophy in Australia are a menace not only to themselves and the people of Australia but also to the future of the whole society which makes up the world to which we belong. We support the Bill. We think that it is practical and sensible and that it makes provision for the obvious weaknesses of the Party in government today and the Party that might even be in government in the future with its economic policies. We give the Bill our blessing. 
-The Democratic Labor Party will support this Bill. In giving the Party's approval might I say how pleased we are to see that this Bill provides financial assistance to the States, local governing bodies and voluntary organisations. The Bill is an attempt to repair the damages caused to people with these afflictions within the community. It is obviously not a program which can be carried out in a highly centralised manner. It is something that should spread right throughout the whole of the community and should get down to even the levels of voluntary organisations. I wish to refer to only one of the questions involved, that of alcoholism. Voluntary organisations probably have done more to be effective in this particular field than have any governmentsponsored organisations. Indeed in my experience as a trade union official, being interested in a large body of members, I came into contact with persons involved in this problem. There are always some people who suffer from the unfortunate circumstances of alcoholism. One rapidly gains an appreciation that probably the most successful people operating in this field are the sponsors behind Alcoholics Anonymous. They seem to give a hand and to hold out a hope to people that not even the medical profession can provide. 
I am pleased to see a provision in this Bill which will enable voluntary organisations to receive the assistance that is necessary to keep them in operation. It would be a dreadful thing right throughout the world today if an organisation such as Alcoholics Anonymous was not able to function in the manner in which it does. It has adopted simple methods. It does not have a scientific or medical background but deals more in the psychological field where it seems to be successful when all else has failed. Alcoholism is only one of a number of activities to which mankind has had a great intolerance. In more primitive times this attitude existed with regard to medical illnesses. In those times people suffering from some illnesses were sometimes chained to a log in a village so that they could be kept under supervision and kept from mingling with or allowing their illness to affect the community around them. 
Until quite recently alcoholism was thought to be a personal weakness that an individual should have the capacity to control. I think it is generally recognised today by informed people that alcoholism is something to which anybody may be subject, depending on their own personality or perhaps their metabolism. Today we know that alcoholism is an individual thing and it certainly is an illness. Some people have an intolerance to alcohol while others do not. Some have the capacity to resist while others do not. While this poison can become an obsession to some people in the community, the great majority of people can take it in their stride. 
This Bill makes provision for these things, and for that reason the Australian Democratic Labor Party supports it. I have received many letters from people who are afflicted with another problem- that of homosexuality. These people have expressed their belief that they have been unjustly treated by our laws in the past. Some want to legalise this practice. Responsible people- or irresponsible people, however one looks at it- have suggested that we should alter our marriage laws so that these people can marry. I have not had sufficient scientific training to know whether such people are suffering from a mental illness or a mental disability. They are certainly not alcoholics, but it could be they are as sick as are alcoholics and that we do not appreciate precisely what the illness is. I think that this is one field in which a solution could be found if we provided funds for research and assistance. I believe that it would be better to do this than to try to introduce into humanity a violation of a natural law that exists not only for homo sapiens but for the whole of the animal world where the necessity for the species to replace itself to ensure its continuity puts homosexuality outside the accepted social practices within a community. This is the normal state of affairs among human beings as it is among species of the animal kingdom. Many people give prominence to this matter. They say that homosexual relationships should be legalised, that they should be accepted and that they are completely normal and desirable and that they would improve the happiness and the future of mankind. While I sympathise with the problems of the people concerned perhaps it would be wiser if we approached this question along the lines that we handle mental disabilities or alcoholism and try to put aside money for more research. Perhaps we should try to find out precisely what we can about the problem of homosexuality so that we can help these people as we are helping by this legislation people who are prone to alcoholism or drug dependence. I believe that this Bill is a good Bill. I believe that the purposes behind it are excellent and the Party to which I belong supports it. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party proposes to support the amendment. We have read the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. We all knew it was coming. It was a budgetary measure and, as was explained in the second reading speech of the Special Minister of State and Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  who in this chamber represents the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  it came into effect on 22 August. It was an overnight surprise for an industry which already was suffering quite considerable hardship because of natural circumstances such as an over-wet season and because of an accumulation of other problems which were left over from the revaluation of the Australian dollar and the cheapening of competitive goods from countries such as South Africa on the European market. This was an enormous blow. 
The Minister in his second reading speech, suggests that there will be alleviation. All the time he mentions only the fruit growing industry. One can only take that to mean that it is only the fruit grower who will be given any consideration at all because of the damage that has been done. Most of these fruit growers have co-operatives for the purpose of marketing and processing their fruits. Most of the extraction of the juice and so on is carried out by fruit growers cooperatives. So it is actually the grower, but not as a participant in the fruit growing section of the industry, who has been particularly affected by this legislation. Ardmona Fruit Products Cooperative Co. Ltd in Victoria has just installed plant worth $lm. Overnight that plant has become redundant because of the removal of this sales tax exemption. On the Minister's second reading speech, the co-operative will be entitled to nothing at all. The amendment makes provision for losses due to assets becoming redundant to be taken into consideration by the Government. I take objection to the manner in which the Minister presented the case. He stated: 
The ostensible purpose of the exemption was to enlarge the market for Austraiian fruit but although it has provided further outlets for some varieties of fruit, the additional returns to growers represent only a fraction of the cost of the exemption which has been running at about $2Sm a year. 
Here we see the peculiar philosophy of the Government: Because sales tax exemption has been granted for a specific purpose the Government assesses the loss of that exemption as though sales tax had been imposed and generously gives it back to the growers. Is there in those figures any allowance for the taxation paid by growers on the extra income that they derived from the fruit that was produced or the profits made by the processing plants which extracted the juices and supplied them to the soft drink makers? A completely false picture is presented to this Parliament to justify a hasty and, in my view, a stupid action to recover $25m in a Budget of such a magnitude, from which so much was handed out and from which we can spend $ 1.5m, by the time all the brokerage is paid, on a silly fool of a painting with which one would not sell any fruit juices if one put it on a railway hoarding as an advertisement for the sale of fruit juices. We can alford to do that. But $2 5 m is an enormous amount to the wives and children of the growers of this country, faced already as they are with the hardships imposed upon them by revaluation of the dollar and with the extra competition from the countries whose fruit can now be admitted more cheaply to the Euopean market. The Commonwealth Government has reduced so much the price of their fruit by comparison with the Australian product as a result of revaluation of the Australian dollar- another accomplishment of the Government which has imposed this upon them. 
There is little we can talk about on the Bill. It is a Budget Bill and we recognise that. It became operative immediately and has been operative for some time. But we support the amendment which suggests that this Bill should be adjourned to give the Government the opportunity to discuss the common sense of the compensation which it owes to those people. The Government has been prepared to take their taxes. It has encouraged them to expand production to meet this market and then swept it away overnight. No responsible government can take action of that character along with the irresponsibility of some of the other things which this Government has been doing to spend millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the Minister's statement, which appeared on page 3219 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 13 November 1 973, that three out of four families, including those in which there is a working wife, would find the Government's proposed national health scheme cheaper than at present, take into account the extra taxation to be paid if the proposed rate of 1 .33 per cent is itself not deductible from personal income? 
Will the Minister table, for the information of senators, the documents upon which his statement was based and the statistical information supplied to him by his advisers that prompted the conclusions referred to above. 
I wish to speak to the motion for the adjournment of the Senate to draw attention to a question which was not answered this morning. I had asked the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  a question on notice. At the outset I say that I place no blame on the Minister who represents the Minister for Special Security in this chamber. In my opinion this insult was offered to the Senate as a whole. The question was not a difficult one or a complicated one. It had to do with probably one of the most controversial matters which is before this Parliament at this time. I gave the Minister the opportunity of 8 days in which to reply. The reply could have been a simple yes or no, but I received no reply at all. I merely received a reply to the second portion of the question and that in itself, to an extent, was an insult to this chamber because it was a repetition of a reply to a question asked in another place. The reply given to that question had no relation whatsoever to the most important part of my question. The Minister should have welcomed the opportunity to answer if he genuinely desired to explain his proposals on national health not only to this Senate and to the members of this Parliament but also to the community at large. The question refers to the Minister's statement and it goes on to point out where that statement is to be found. It asks whether 3 out of 4 families would be better off under the scheme, including those where there is a working wife. The question is couched in these terms: 
Does the Minister's statement . . . take into account the extra taxation to be paid if the proposed rate of 1.3S per cent is itself not deductible from personal income. 
That question was ignored completely. The Minister made no attempt whatsoever to answer it. In those circumstances I can only say that the Minister, by the White Paper which he has issued, is endeavouring to perpetrate a lie upon the members of this Parliament. 
It was so simple. He could have said: ' Yes, it is deductible ', or 'No, it is not ', or 'I did take it into account', or 'I did not'. But the Minister left both questions- that is the one that is there by inference and a direct questioncompletely unanswered. The Minister in his White Paper spent some considerable time on this aspect, yet nowhere in it does he disclose to the people the intentions of the Government on this matter. The Minister draws attention to the Government's policy and how it is to achieve its aim for the highest quality health care at a reasonable and responsible price. He states that the Government will be using two separate but closely integrated approaches. He goes on to point out how, in the past, the cost of the health service has been more reasonable for those on high incomes because the payments to the hospital benefits funds have been tax deductible. That leaves an inference, of course, that no longer will these payments be tax deductible under the new scheme. But the White Paper does not state that definitely. Indeed, in the closing paragraph of the White Paper the Minister states: 
The total net cost to the Budget, including the effect of tax deductions, will be approximately the same as would be the case under the existing health insurance scheme. 
No wonder there is an atmosphere of complete confusion throughout the medical profession and the charitable and private hospitals if this is the sort of explanation we are to receive when we are merely seeking information and carrying out the task for which we are in this Parliament, that is, to represent the community. It is enormously important that members of the public should know in order to be able to appraise the situation for themselves. The question I posed to the Minister should be answered. Let me give an example, which I have worked out, of what it actually means and so give the lie to the Minister's claim that 3 out of 4 families will be better off. I do not know whether he has taken these things into consideration. He is not in the position in which I am, because he knows whether the 1.35 per cent will be tax deductible. Of course, the implication that it is a tax leads one to believe that it will not be tax deductible. After all, how is it possible to allow as a tax deduction something that is computed only after the taxable income has been arrived at? But there is a way that it could be tax deductible. It could be tax deductible in a subsequent year. Are we, after the tabling of a White Paper, to remain in a state of confusion on such an important aspect? 
I fully appreciate that, and it would be to the benefit of the Minister and the Government to accept the opportunity to answer it. I believe that the Minister's attitude was an insult not only to me personally but to every member of this Senate, including members of the Government Party who so recently were in Opposition and were seeking this type of information from Government Ministers in order to clarify the position for themselves and for the people whom they represented. After all, that is our basic task. We should not be told that the Minister made his computations by the use of some particular table, and be told to go and do the work ourselves. How can we do the work if the Minister keeps secret whether tax deductibility is to apply? 
Let us look at what it means in terms of the payments by people on different incomes. I do not suppose that an income of $5,000 a year would be considered an excessive income in working families today. It is about $100 a week. The rate of income tax on an income of $5,000 a year- these are all approximate figures, leaving out the fractions of cents- is 33c in the dollar. The total tax payable by a person on that income would be $916, leaving him a yearly income of $4,084 after tax has been paid. In future, he will have taken out of that for health insurance about $70, which is computed on the basis of the $100 a week or $5,200 a year. If it is the Minister's intention that the payment be tax deductible, at a tax rate of 30c in the dollar that person's total payment for health insurance would actually be not $70 but $59. He would receive a taxation rebate of $11. So, although he would be paying $70 for health insurance, he actually would be saving $ 1 1 of his income if the $70 was tax deductible. I would say that to a man in that position $1 1 would be a considerable amount. 
Let me move to the higher incomes. A man on $1 1,000 a year would pay the maximum under the scheme that the Minister is proposing; that is, $ 1 50. He pays up to 50c in the dollar tax on that $ 1 1,000 income. He pays a total of $3,388 in tax. Of course, he does not pay 50c in the dollar on the whole of his income, but he pays it on that portion of it in excess of a certain amount, from which portion his $150 contribution for health insurance would be paid. He would be paying 50c in the dollar on that $ 1 50. Of course if it were rebatable, what he would really pay would be only $75. So, he would not pay very much more than a man with an income of only $5,200 a year. In the high tax bracket, a man with an income of $20,000 a year would pay up to 60c in the dollar in tax. Of course, the maximum amount of $ 1 50 which he would have to pay would be reduced by a tax deduction at the rate of 60c in the dollar. He would pay $ 1 5 a year less than the man on $11,000 a year. It would cost him only $60 a year. The argument of the Government in the White Paper is that all this is not justified under the old scheme because a man on $20,000, as well as paying tax amounting to $8,448 as against $3,388 paid in tax by the man on $11,000, should saddle up and carry a greater burden in regard to the health scheme as well. The health scheme is to be compulsory and he will have to join although he may be in very good health and consider that it is not worth it for him to pay such a high premium. 
I note that the Government is doing this in regard to its education scheme, when it excludes the A class private schools from assistance. The great proportion of the $8,448 paid in tax by a taxpayer on this high income would be spent on the education of children. The greatest proportion of all taxation these days is spent on education. That man will be paying completely for his child's education if he sends his child to an expensive private school. That is the Government's idea of justice today. We all would agree with the principle that in the scale of taxation there should be, as far as is possible, an equation of incomes. Some allowances must be made, surely, for those who are prepared to strive harder to get into the higher tax groups. But should we carry this principle through the entire ramification of everything we do? If that happens we will ultimately kill incentive to improve one's position, and nobody will want to work any harder. 1 am only illustrating the differences that could occur if these sums are to be tax deductible but we do not know the situation. Apparently the Minister for Social Security does not propose to tell us. He has had a direct opportunity to answer a question so that we would know precisely what this health scheme is going to cost and so that we could compare the statement that he has made to the Press, to the people of the country at large, that 3 out of 4 people will be better off even in the case of families where the wife is working. We cannot find out from him one of the basic essentials which would enable us to make a comparison. Let us look at the table that the Minister has prepared. 
Well, we can come to no other conclusion when the question was so simple. It was either the action of an enormously arrogant man who refuses to share his secrets about these questions with the people who have to pay- all that we are after is an explanation to the people who have to pay- or he does not know his job as a Minister in the Government and as the man responsible to answer questions to the people. Members of this Parliament ask these questions but they represent the people. Really, it is the people who are asking the questions. 
Let us look at the case of a man with a wife who is working. Let us assume that this man receives $5,000 a year and pays $70 to his hospital benefits fund. Let us forget about whether it is tax deductible or not. Everything that has been said about the method of collecting the tax seems to indicate that it will not be deductible. Let us assume that that man's wife is working and receiving a modest salary for female labour these days. We know that the position of women is to be elevated and that there is to be equal pay for the sexes but leave that matter aside for the purpose of this calculation. Let us assume that she gets $60 a week or $3,120 a year. She will pay $386 in tax in a year.  Her  hospital benefits contribution will be $42. If you add that $42 to the $70 that her husband on $5,000 a year is paying, for their hospital coverage they will pay $112 a year. If they want anything above the basic public ward treatment and so on they will have to insure themselves over and above that. It also seems to be a secret as to whether that additional insurance will be tax deductible or not. 
-That is a matter for the people themselves. Let us consider again the case of the man in the higher income group to which I referred before, the man with an income of $20,000 who is paying tax at a rate of 60c in the dollar. If that person's contribution of $150 for hospital benefits coverage is not tax deductible then it is a lie to tell him that that is all he will pay under the new scheme because he will not pay only $150. In effect he will lose 60c in every dollar because he is no longer able to claim the contributions as tax deductible. The actual cost to him under the new scheme will be about $250.I believe this is what the people want to know. It is what the Senate and Government supporters want to know so that they can explain the position to their constituents. If I cannot get the answers, can honourable senators opposite get them. 
If you know why are you keeping them secret from the people. If you know you ought to be telling the people. 
I do not know. 1 have worked out the figures. I have not heard them explained by your Minister or by any other honourable senator opposite. I ask honourable senators to tell me where they have been explained. 
Tell me on what page of the White Paper this is explained. This document is supposed to tell us all about it. There is no explanation of these figures in it and honourable senators opposite know this. 
Of course it is not. But this document is supposed to explain it to everybody and tell us what to expect. Are we not to be told the answers to these questions when we ask them in this Parliament? Now that you are in Government are questions as simple as this to answer with the knowledge that Ministers must have not to be answered by them? If you support that you will regret it the day you revert to the Opposition benches. If you maintain this cavalier attitude to questions asked by the people you will again form the Opposition. If this is the sort of treatment that questions on notice are going to receive it is easy to understand how dissatisfied honourable senators must become with answers that are incomplete to questions without notice. There is at least some justification for a Minister not being able accurately and completely to inform the Senate on questions that are asked without notice. But in relation to a question on notice, I say that the answer received by me this morning was an insult to this Senate. I hope that the Minister has the courage to repair the damage to ensure that this Senate is informed on the intentions of the Government in respect of this aspect of the matter. 
-On behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party I indicate that we are prepared at this stage and under these circumstances to support the Wheat Industry Stabilisation Bill 1973 and the Wheat Export Charge Bill 1973. We may have had some criticism about the manner in which the Government has operated recently. If more time was available to us we would have liked to have put forward some suggestions. However, since what we have in mind is not sufficiently important to warrant impeding the passage of the Bills at this stage, we will support them. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social 
Security. To assist honourable senators to carry out the advice of the Minister for Social Security to do research themselves to find the comparable expense of the present health benefit scheme and that suggested by the Government, is the Minister yet able to inform honourable senators whether the compulsory payment of 1.35 per cent of taxable income will attract in total or in any part a reduction in current or any future taxable income assessment? 
-I wish to make a few remarks in relation to this matter because of what has been said, and I particularly refer to the statement that the $700,000 that has been allocated will more or less round off the project. This project will carry on next year but I ask whether that amount includes the purchase of the turtles. As I understood from answers to question asked in Estimates Committee E, there are 15,000 turtles in various stages of growth which the Commonwealth is obliged to purchase from the Torres Strait islanders who have been encouraged to raise these turtles. 
The figure that has been mentioned as the probable purchase price was $80 a turtle on site, that is, on Torres Strait Islands. If that is the case and if there were 15,000 turtles, it means that at some stage we are obliged to purchase, whether it is from Applied Ecology Pty Ltd or the marketing company, 15,000 turtles at $80 each. That makes a total of $1.2m at the market place. In view of the remoteness of the area in which this product has been reared and the fact that the turtles will be reaching maturity at different stages I see an enormous problem in conveying them to the market, and nobody seems to have information as to where that is at present. I do not see how we can consider that this project will be rounded off with the $700,000 to be allocated for the rest of this year. We must look forward, with the responsibilities already established to the people who have been encouraged to embark on this enterprise, to the expenditure of considerably more money. I see it as my obligation to draw that matter to the attention of the Senate at this time. There will be required in the future for the purchase and disposal of the turtles a lot more money than $700,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the Minister's statement, which appeared on page 3219 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 13 November 1973, that three out of four families, including those in which there is a working wife, would find the Government's proposed national health scheme cheaper than at present, take into account the extra taxation to be paid if the proposed rate of 1.35 percent is itself not deductible from personal income. 
Will the Minister table, for the information of Senators, the documents upon which his statement was. based and the statistical information supplied to him by his advisers that prompted the conclusions referred to above. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party is opposed to the Constitution Alteration (Local Government Bodies) Bill. It admits that the principles sound very attractive. Indeed, struggling local government councils seeking desperately a way out of the dilemma in which the financial policies of successive previous governments and this Government have placed them are bound to find the overall proposition apparently attractive. But if one is a practical politician- every senator ought to be if he is not- one has to remember that only just recently, at the time of the Parramatta by-election, there was a sudden decision to build a $8m hospital in the area because it was necessary to win votes. 
Without castigating the present Government very much at all but simply looking at practical politics and practical politicians, I wonder just what would be the circumstances of the Federal Government going into local government council areas with an open cheque book and saying: 'We will look after you'. I wonder what would be the position in relation to, say, the inner Melbourne suburb of Collingwood which forms part of a blue ribbon Labor seat. The Labor Government would not have to worry about the local council at Collingwood because it could not lose the seat. But what would happen in the outer suburban areas which are in borderline seats? 
I wish to draw the attention of honourable senators to a very serious matter. It is the withholding from the Parliament of information, by a responsible or irresponsible Minister of the Government, to which this Parliament was entitled to have access. I allege that the Minister deliberately withheld this information because today it has been drawn to my attention that the information requested in the Senate was made available for a radio program in Melbourne. As late as yesterday morning the Minister in the Senate representing the Minister in the other place told the Senate that he was unable to obtain from the Minister the information which was freely given today by the Press Secretary of the Minister in the other place. To make the point clearly to the Senate I must reiterate a little history to nail another misstatement of fact, a deliberate misleading of the Senate, that was contained in an answer given to my original question on this matter. I think honourable senators will recall that when I first asked the question in the Senate the Minister insulted the Senate by returning to it an answer couched in the terms of an answer given to a member in another place. The Minister is  Mr Hayden.  He concluded his reply in this manner: 
When I was in Opposition I received no help from the Government and did the hard work myself. 
It would have been a change. The honourable senator must know the Minister personally. The Minister deliberately misstated the facts. I have since ascertained the facts. In 1972 when that Minister,  Mr Hayden,  was in Opposition and did all the work himself, he placed on the notice paper of the House 30 questions to the Minister for Health and 20 questions to the Minister for Social Services on the particular item on which he said that he did all the work himself. If honourable senators would like verification of my statement I am prepared to read to the Senate from the official files of Hansard to verify whether  Mr Hayden,  as a member of the Opposition, or the Ministers of the Government of the day did all the work. It would take the next 3 hours to read the questions and the answers that were given to the present Minister in another place to the 50 questions which he placed on notice. That makes no allowance at all for questions that he asked without notice.  Mr President,  you will recall that I asked one simple question that required only an answer of yes or no from the Minister, and I was forced to speak in the adjournment debate to try to get the answer but I could not get it from the Minister's representative here, although he informed the Senate that he had tried to get the information. I raised the matter again twice by way of question. The last time I raised it- only yesterday morning- the question was a simple one, as follows: 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security now in a position to inform the Australian people whether the compulsory payment of 1.3S per cent of taxable income proposed to finance the Health Insurance Bill 1973 will itself be tax deductible? Are any other insurance commitments entered into to provide cover for private ward treatment in hospitals to be a deduction from income for tax assessment? 
The reply ofthe Minister in this chamber was as follows: 
I have sought from my colleague the Minister for Social Security the additional information required by the honourable senator but as yet it is not forthcoming. All I can say to the honourable senator is that I provided htm with an answer on behalf of my colleague last Wednesday and the honourable senator then raised the matter on the adjournment. In addition to that information- 
Honourable senators will recall that that was no information at all but merely a boast by the Minister,  Mr Hayden,  of how he did all the work himself, which he did not do- with which I provided him I have sought additional information. As I said, that information, if any, as yet is not forthcoming. 
Today my attention was drawn to a radio broadcasting program in Melbourne which is a talkback session.  Mr Norman  Banks, who conducts this session, was raising the question of health. I telephoned him and told him of the problem I had in getting vital information in order to make a comparison between the cost to the individual of the Government's proposals and the cost that is met by people under the present health benefits scheme, and that no intelligent comparison could be made without this vital piece of information. I explained to him that I had sought it on 4 occasions. He instructed his secretary to telephone the Minister. Of course, the Minister's Press Secretary replied, and the information that was not available to the Minister in this chamber or to the senators who are members of the Government Party in this chamber was readily made available by the Minister's Press Secretary to a radio broadcasting program in Melbourne. 
I make the allegation quite seriously. There had to be a reason why this Federal Minister,  Mr Hayden,  was deliberately withholding from the Senate- and from the people of this nation who have inquired from members of this Senate- the facts on this question and why he was giving deliberately misleading information to this Senate. The only possible conclusion that one can come to, after the publication of his White Paper which was alleged to explain all the details of his health scheme but which did not contain this information, and after his attention was drawn to what one might conclude because the money was to be raised in the manner of a tax on assessable income, is that it will not be tax deductible. But it was a fact that it could have been made tax deductible in a subsequent year. The Minister refused to disclose information to the Parliament which he must have had at that time. We must condemn in the strongest possible terms this sort of behaviour from any Minister who is trying to place before the people an entirely new proposition that will completely reorient the whole approach to medical services in this country. 
The Minister has done his cause great harm. He has done his Party and his ministerial colleagues in this place great harm by withholding from them the information which they are entitled to have. Is it that the Minister does not trust his colleagues? Is it that the Minister has no confidence in the ministerial representatives of his own Party in this chamber? What are the reasons, if they are not the reasons that I have stated, for his deliberately trying to place before this Parliament a proposition in relation to which no proper explanation was given as to how it was to be funded? The Minister had made statements to the effect that 3 out of 4 people would be better off under the proposals that he was advancing. I give those statements the lie. 
I expect the Minister for the Media, who is sitting at the table, to inform us whether or not the Press Secretary ofthe Minister for Social Security has correctly informed the radio station so that at long last we can have officially placed before this chamber of the Parliament the facts from the Minister himself instead of receiving them secondhand by way of information given to a radio station in Melbourne by the Minister's Press Secretary. I challenge the Minister to verify the information given to the radio station. I would ask him to explain to us when he verifies it why  Mr Hayden  has refused to disclose the information. Answers given by the Minister for the Media to my questions asked in this chamber have revealed that he has repeatedly sought answers to the questions and was refused such answers by the Minister for Social Security. 
It would be insufficient to say that one can read into the proposal that the scheme will be financed by everyone paying 1.35 per cent of his taxable income for that purpose, because traditionally medical charges have always been deductible under our tax structure. Whatever I may have read into the proposal as a member of this Parliament, who takes some interest in economics and in tax matters, the great mass of the general public would immediately conclude, unless publicity were given to this particular aspect, that, as all medical costs in the past have been tax deductible, whatever proportion of their taxable income they might pay under the new scheme would attract the same sort of tax rebates as they have always received in the past. So I take this opportunity to reveal to honourable senators, to members of the Government and, indeed, to the Minister at the table that an answer has been given. I request the Minister to place before this chamber tonight information as to whether the statements that have been made on a radio program in Melbourne are authentic. I point out to the Minister that the question was not related only to the 1.35 per cent being now taxable - 
The honourable senator can now have the personal satisfaction of sitting down and working out what his own contribution will be. The Minister did not disclose to the honourable senator earlier that this payment was to be taxable. Honourable senators could not make that calculation. They should congratulate us for having gone to the trouble to enable them as senators at least to be able to explain the position to other people and to know it for their own satisfaction. - Honourable senators will not escape the costs of this free medicine program. When this question was posed it was amazing that the Press secretary to the Minister answered not only that the payment of 1.35 per cent would be taxable but also the other part of the question I asked of the Minister for the Media yesterday morning in this chamber. The radio commentator was told that the other insurance costs to provide coverage for a private ward, for a private hospital treatment and for a charge to the contributor of $5 for each attending doctor- that is, the doctor who operates, the anaesthetist and so on- in the free medical scheme would be tax deductible. Those are exactly the 2 components contained in the question that I asked the Minister yesterday. He told me that he could not obtain an answer from the Minister for Social Security. I now ask the Minister to tell us whether he has been admitted into this great secret conclave that has given information to a radio station in Melbourne or is he still in the position that he cannot answer that question in the Senate. 
-Can the Minister representing the Treasurer confirm the information obtained yesterday by radio commentator Norman Banks of Melbourne that the charge of 1.35 per cent on assessed taxable income designed to finance the Government's health proposal will not be a deductible item for income taxation purposes? If the Minister can answer the question will he inform the Minister for Social Security,  Mr Hayden,  and the Minister for the Media, 

 Senator Douglas McClelland, as they seem to have no knowledge of this matter? 
I wish to indicate that the Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the 2 Bills before the Senate. I do not wish to cover again the ground that has been covered by previous speakers. In order to clear the minds of honourable senators in regard to the Committee stage of the consideration of the Bills, I indicate that we, too, will support the amendments. In saying that, I point out that while the amended clause 11 appears to strengthen the Continental Shelf (Living National Resources) Bill by making mandatory the forfeiture of vessels in cases in which foreign ships come within the forbidden area to fish, there could be circumstances in which this could react both ways. A court feeling that forfeiture of the ship was excessive in the circumstances put before it might not register a conviction because it would feel that it would be an injustice to forfeit the vessel. Therefore, to leave the question within the jurisdiction of the court so that the court may be able to order forfeiture of a vessel seems to us to provide for all the circumstances that may eventuate. 
There could be circumstances in which a fishing vessel might infringe very narrowly on the area from which it is prohibited. That should be an offence and most certainly the catch of the vessel should be appropriated. But to forfeit the vessel and all the equipment thereon without a court considering the circumstances involved seems to us to be not in accordance with the principles of natural justice. We believe that the jurisdiction should be left with the court. For that reason I indicate that at the Committee stage, without speaking to the amendments, we will support them. 
I point out to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  what could be described as perhaps the harshness of the clause under consideration and the possibility of reciprocal harshness from other countries. Before the provisions of the legislation can be enforced it will be necessary to ascertain whether a vessel has actually been fishing within 10 miles of the Australian coastline. One can well envisage an international incident arising from a foreign vessel being seized under circumstances which another country might regard as unjust. It is not beyond the realms of possibility, international policies being as they are today, that a charge could be cooked up by some other country that some Australian vessel, which may not even be a fishing vessel, had been fishing inside its territorial waters and the Australian vessel seized. Such a situation could lead to all manner of unfortunate incidents. I think that if the matter is brought before a court and the court decides to confiscate a vessel then to some extent there would be some protection from that type of reciprocal action. It is true that there have been incidents of this character in some of the countries in the Indian Ocean area. In some cases vessels have been seized for purely propaganda purposes. I draw this matter to the attention of the Minister to illustrate perhaps one of the unpleasant aspects of too harsh a law that he may not have yet considered. 
I will be brief. The Democratic Labor Party will support the two Bills that are before the Senate at the moment. We are pleased that the dual airline system is to be continued. I suppose we need no better example of a requirement of that character than the recent unnecessary strike in one of the airlines. The country was able to hobble along with the alternative airline which did a magnificient job in filling in and handling the situation that faced the travelling public of Australia. That strike highlighted the requirement that there should be the competition which can be achieved with the 2 airline system. However, as the capital investment in airlines is so enormous it is very unlikely that a country of this size could sustain more than 2 airlines. 
I refer now to the amendment which it has been foreshadowed will be moved to the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill. It could very well be that what is stated in the foreshadowed amendment is the broad policy that the Government has in mind. As the foreshadowed amendment represents an expression of opinion- quite a rational opinion although I do not think it will be possible to carry it out in exact detail- the Democratic Labor Party will support it. I do not know whether it is possible today for the Government or anyone else to look into the future and gain a clear and precise understanding of what future charges will be. As a business man I would not commit myself to being able to accomplish that miracle in any industry or in any business project today. I could not give a clear and precise- particularly precise- understanding of what charges will be in the future. I think there is some danger in approaching this matter in an analytical way, working out what the prices will be in 5 years time and then relating them to today's circumstances. A charge or a price is relevant only to the day, the times, the conditions and circumstances under which it is fixed. If we looked back at the times when we could buy a pair of men's shoes for 3s 1 Id or 4s lid and tried to relate that to today's prices we would say that we are living in a crazy world. Perhaps we are. In the days when things were as cheap as that, if we could have projected out minds into the future we would certainly have been scared, perhaps to such an extent that probably most of us would not be here. We would have taken an easier way out. - 
The Democratic Labor Party does not join in some of the propositions put forward but we think that the general principles of these Bills are good and will support them. As the foreshadowed amendment merely conveys an expression of opinion to the Government, one which the Government might well intend to adopt anyway, we are prepared to support it 

 Senator CAVANAGH (South Australia- 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs) (6.55)- in reply- I hope so,  Mr President.  I shall takeyour hint and say in the short time available tome that if I am unable to reply to everything that has been raised by honourable senators I shall get the information and forward the details to those concerned. The Government will not accept the foreshadowed amendment. The indications are, however, that it will be carried. If it is held to be carried on the voices the Government will not ask for a division. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time, and passed through its remaining stages without amendment or debate. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party is prepared to support this Bill. It is contrary to the policies and the principles that our Party has always supported insofar as we have never believed in sales tax. We think that sales tax is a bad and wrong method of tax collection and that it is totally unfair. This Bill relates to an industry that previously enjoyed exemption from sales tax. It would appear that the Government made a deliberate decision that children's soft drinks must attract sales tax the same as the hard liquors drunk by adults. Shortly after the Government was elected it exempted contraceptives from sales tax. Now, by the implementation of this Bill sales tax is to be applied to the soft drinks of children. It is Government policy and the Government is proceeding with its policy. 
We were greatly concerned that the industry had become dependent to some extent upon this exemption from sales tax and had expanded under those conditions. The fruit juice extraction industry was expanding quite considerably because of the advantage that it had in this area. A sudden cessation of the exemption created tremendous embarrassment in the industry and made redundant a lot of plant, some of which had not even been used but had been installed with the idea of promoting the sales of extracted fruit juice for use in carbonated beverages. This proposition was made attractive by the fact that manufacturers of carbonated beverages were advantaged by using fruit juices exempted from sales tax. However, as I said, this Bill represents Government policy. The Government after pressure was applied, promised assistance to the extent that it is now offering some compensation to people in the industry. We are prepared to allow the Bill to pass. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the National Health and Medical Research Council did not renew a grant of $13,000 to a medical research team for 1974 to enable it to proceed with an investigation into Huntington's Chorea, an hereditary mental disease. 
Did the leader of the medical research team,  Dr Colin  Brackenridge, announce that it would be impossible for him to continue with the team. 
Will the Minister give consideration to making a direct grant to  Dr Brackenridge  's team of $13,000, as such expenditure is more likely to ensure national sanity than the expenditure of $ 1 , 250,000 on the painting' Blue Poles '. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Copies of the second reading speech are being distributed to honourable senators. I do not propose to wait for the copies to be distributed as I have no doubt that honourable senators will be able to follow what I am saying. The purpose of this Bill, expressed in its simplest terms, is to remove all barriers to the provision of a first-class health care cover to every Australian regardless of means. It also aims to preserve the dignity of the Australian people, their total freedom of choice in medical and hospital care, their personal privacy and to maintain the present quality of Australian health care which is recognised as being as high as any existing in the world. The decision to submit these amendments to the present National Health Act was made to solve the crisis that emanates from the proposals to dismantle the accepted scheme and replace it with one arousing hostility and causing predictably much higher costs to many subscribers. 
The present Act has operated with general cooperation by all sections of the medical and health professions but has revealed serious deficiencies in its cover and operation. The present scheme disadvantages some people in the community, mainly low income earners, especially those with large families and pensioners, who presently receive what can only be regarded as a second-class health service. On the other hand there is  Mr Hayden,  the Minister for Social Security, the architect of the Government's proposed health scheme. The Minister sees no virtues at all in the present Act. Indeed, his principle accusation against it is: 'A million people are not covered and they are the poor people'. In the Minister's view, therefore, the current Act must be destroyed. In its place there is to be an entirely new, compulsory, tax-based health scheme, under a new nationalised health care bureaucracy. 
For 12 months, the Minister has engaged in a massive propaganda attempt to bludgeon all sections of the medical and hospital professions into accepting his scheme. This he has signally failed to achieve. The past year has been notable for the continual divisiveness and rancour of the Minister's attacks on the medical and hospital professions for their failure to become willing slaves. For their part, the very people, whose professional expertise is essential to the success of any national health scheme, have expressed their continued resentment and fears of the Minister's health proposals. How on earth can the Minister expect his scheme to succeed, when he has deliberately provoked dissension with all the highly skilled groups that are required to make it work? 
The average Australian is confused and apprehensive; he suffers the weaknesses of the existing National Health Act but seriously wonders whether the Minister's plan, in the face of bitter medical and hospital opposition, will not create greater problems and, indeed, lead to a chaos that could destroy him completely. This Bill is presented as a positive solution to the crisis. We seek to amend extensively the present National Health Act in order to eliminate the weaknesses in the voluntary scheme and to extend its coverage to the low-income single earner, to those with larger families, to pensioners, to newly arrived migrants and to aborigines. 
This Bill clearly opts for a voluntary health insurance scheme, as against a compulsory, taxbased one. The Austraiian Democratic Labor Party believes that the present voluntary scheme, whatever its weaknesses, enjoys several substantial advantages. It is a unique 3-way partnership of patient, voluntary non-profit funds and the Government. Its costs are restrained and personal responsibility is retained, because the financial burden is partly borne by the patients themselves; cases of hardship attract Government subsidy; real freedom of choice exists in the selection of one's doctor and private hospitalsboth religious and charitable- retain their freedom to contribute substantially to a dual system of hospital care. In other words, the DLP believes that, given support by the Government and the other Opposition Parties, this Bill will provide fully adequate medical and hospital care, in which the patient is guaranteed his personal freedom and the maintenance of the present high standard of health in Australia. 
We believe that the Government's divisive, unnecessary and very costly health proposals are too high a price to pay for a controversial new scheme of health cover for the 90-odd per cent of the community who are adequately covered already. It is interesting to note that, if one takes account of the free medical and hospital attention given to repatriation patients and service personnel, together with the free outpatient treatment and public ward accommodation provided in Queensland's public hospitals, or as outpatients, some 96 per cent of the Australian population has medical coverage and 97 per cent has hospital coverage. 
The Minister's constant references to 'the million not covered at present' take no account of the number of people in Queensland who, because they have a free hospital system available to them, see no need to take out private insurance. For this reason, 596,000 Queenslanders have taken out no hospital cover and 550,000 have no medical insurance. In fact, if we include the 10.3 per cent of people covered by the pensioner medical service, the subsidised health benefits, the 2 per cent covered by repatriation benefits and the 0.6 per cent covered by the Australian defence forces medical care, there are at present 1,700,800 people- representing 12.9 per cent of the population- who have cover outside the non-profit medical funds. As only less than 3 per cent of the total population is uncovered at all for hospital treatment and less than 4 per cent for medical care, the logical step is surely to extend the coverage of the present scheme to 100 per cent, instead of scrapping it entirely, in favour of a huge tax-based controversial national compulsory scheme. 
This Bill will eliminate the need for drastic, disruptive legislation. It seeks to strengthen 2 areas of weakness in the present scheme. The subsidised health benefits scheme was originally introduced to provide cover without cost to people in the very low income groups, arriving migrants and the unemployed. Unfortunately too little effort has been made to ensure that the provisions of the subsidised health benefits scheme are kept in line with the needs of those sections of the community this scheme is designed to serve. For example, the income level at which low income earners become eligible for subsidised health benefits is below what is just in the present high inflation situation. But the subsidised health benefits scheme has further gross inadequacies. It does not, for example, cover single low income earners. It disregards the special problems of large families on low incomes, because assistance is pegged to family units of 2 persons. It makes no provision for automatic adjustment to meet the problems of inflation. It is unnecessarily cumbersome and costly in its administration. Under clause 16 of the DLP Bill the subsidised health benefits scheme would be widened to include single people on low incomes. The tapered assistance to low-income beneficiaries would be discontinued and full assistance provided to all eligible persons, whose eligibility would be determined by the number of dependants in the family, as recommended by the Nimmo Committee. Our Bill would also streamline the present complex administrative arrangements for the subsidised health benefits scheme by replacing the Commonwealth reimbursement of benefits and substituting the payment of contributions to the fund of the subsidised health benefits scheme beneficiary's choice. Clause 13 provides that waiting periods for all subsidised health benefits scheme beneficiaries would be waived in respect of medical and public ward benefits, and the beneficiaries would continue, should they wish, to insure themselves for hospital benefits, in excess of the public ward level, at their own expense. 
Finally, under this Bill, the Commonwealth would enter into negotiations with the State governments for an alternative arrangement to the subsidised health benefits scheme which would be more suitable to the special needs of tribal Aborigines. The DLP believes that pensioners should enjoy the same type of medical care as is enjoyed by the rest of the community. At present, the pensioner medical service is limited to general practitioner services and provides no cover for the full range of services which insured patients and subsidised health benefits scheme beneficiaries enjoy. It is, in fact, a restricted and second-class medical service. Any pensioner who seeks a surgeon of his or her own choice, by electing to go into private or intermediate hospital accommodation, is automatically excluded from all benefits and has to carry the whole cost of the hospital and medical bills. On the other hand, any other low-income person receiving subsidised health benefits may go into private or intermediate hospital accommodation and incur only the difference in cost between his public ward entitlement and the hospital charges. He is also covered for medical benefits. This is a gross injustice that should be remedied. 
A major objective of this Bill, which is contained in clause 6, is to end this situation by phasing out the pensioner medical service and bringing those pensioners who desire it under the extended provisions of the subsidised health benefits scheme. Despite the Minister's claim that this move would disadvantage pensioners, our Bill would provide low-income pensioners with the opportunity of upgrading their health care to the level of that enjoyed by all other members of the community. Under the present pensioner medical service the Government is bulk billed' by participating doctors. By replacing this system with the 'reimbursement system', over-servicing and over-utilisation would be effectively contained, with consequent savings to the Government. State hospitals would also be assisted by the inclusion of pensioners in the subsidised health benefits as they would receive the normal daily bed charges for pensioner patients in heu of the current $5 per day. 
One problem unresolved by the present and previous governments has been the unpredictability of medical fees. The resulting openended commitments have created great problems in the financial management of national health schemes. Medical fees and charges are not simply of concern only to the medical profession. Medical benefits and the accountability of governments are also involved. This Bill, in clause 24, provides for the establishment by the Minister of a Medical Fees and Benefits Advisory Committee, which at its establishment and, at intervals of not more than 3 years, shall inquire into and make recommendations to the Minister concerning the basic Commonwealth medical benefit, and, in respect of each State, the fund benefit and the specified excess that in the opinion of the Committee are reasonable, in respect of the professional services, to which the items in the Schedule relate. 
The Committee's  Chairman  shall be a Presidential member of the Arbitration Commission and, of its two other members, one shall be appointed by the Minister from a panel of three submitted by the Australian Medical Association and the other from a similar panel submitted by the Voluntary Health Insurance Association of Australia. For inquiry purposes, this Committee may seek the assistance of 2 doctors as assessors, nominated similarly by the AMA and the VHIAA. The Government's interest would be preserved by the fact that it would have the last word on whether Commonwealth or fund benefits would be increased, and the people would be represented by the  Chairman.  Existing machinery already provides for a registration committee to approve benefits, and the Commonwealth itself has the right to decide what the matching benefits shall be. 
I stress that the DLP is prepared to be quite flexible as regards the Committee. We would consider, and indeed welcome, suggestions from the Government and its health experts on ways to improve the Committee's functions and composition. The Bill does not attempt to deal in great detail with the areas of paramedical services and health provisions for the elderly, invalids and semi-invalids. We offer this Bill as a practical solution of the present health impasse. We invite both the support and constructive criticisms of the Government and the Opposition parties. We hope that the Government, through its professional advisers, would offer suggestions on how best to extend its cover to the specialist fields I have mentioned. 
I have not attempted at this stage to discuss the costs involved in the DLP's scheme. Obviously, any attempt to ensure that all Australians receive adequate medical and hospital cover must cost more than the present system. But our Bill has been carefully costed. This reveals, as I shall discuss at a later stage of the debate, that its financial implementations would be significantly lower than the Minister's own scheme. At this stage, I wish merely to explain the Bill 's principal features and to stress its purpose, which is to provide adequate health cover to all Australians, especially the elderly, the under-privileged and the disadvantaged. I invite the support of all parties in the Senate to enable this BUI to go forward as the real solution to the on-going health debate and the health crisis which faces Australia today. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator O'Byrne)  adjourned. 

 -Following Senator Mulvihill in this debate as I do, I feel that I have to come back to the facts. It is not an argument as to whether one person had difficulty in obtaining a positive program under the old system, as we can regard it now. Really, it is the present system. I am wondering whether the lone woman to whom  Senator Mulvihill  referred, or even the honourable senator himself, would have done any better if they had had to argue with a government. Of course, there are always borderlines cases in regard to any Act of Parliament because it is not possible to pass a law that will cover every individual case. I noticed that in the honourable senator's heartrending example of a child of 2 years who was ill, he said that it was the terrible members of the Australian Medical Association who had the skill and the knowledge to diagnose the Child's illness. Without them she was lost entirely. This is one of the fundamentals of this program that we should keep in mind. Without the doctors no health program can function. I wish to develop my speech with that position as the basis. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has not talked about who is right or who is wrong. We have tried to examine the Government 's program without predjudice. We have tried to ask questions in the Senate. Indeed, I have asked 5 questions on one aspect and I am still waiting for an answer. I had to put the question on the notice paper. I do not think that is a very good way for a government to explain its proposition to the people of this country. It is my charge against the Government today that it has not explained its program not only to the people of the country b ut also, from the statements made tonight, to members of its own Party. I received an answer to a question I asked a fortnight ago of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  who represents the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in the Senate. In it he said that a working wife on $60 a week would pay nothing at all. I can read the actual extract from Hansard of the Minister's words to show not that he is a liar- I know the Minister, and I would not charge him with being a liar- but that he told me something that was not true. In answer to a question I asked of him the Minister, as reported in Hansard of 28 November 1973 and as has been reiterated in this chamber tonight by 2 supporters of the Government, said: 
My friends opposite cited an example of a husband earning $5,000 and the spouse earning, I think he said,$60 a week or an annual sum of $3,000. If the honourable senator turns to page 65 of the White Paper he will see in paragraph 7.4 that the application of the formula to the current minimum weekly wage of $60.10 would result in an exemption limit So under those circumstances the wife would not be expected to pay anything at all. 
That is what the Minister for the Media said. Let us turn to the White Paper prepared by the Government and in particular to the paragraph quoted by the Minister, that is, paragraph 7.4.I do not wish to quote the whole of it because I have only 30 minutes in which to speak. It reads in part: 
The application of the formula to the current minimum weekly wage of $60.10 would result in an exemption limit of $2,210 - 
Not $3,000 but $2,2 10- of taxable income for taxpayers claiming $100or more in deductions for dependants in 1974-75. A 'shading-in' arrangement based on the principles proposed by the Planning Committee will be made. Persons with taxable income marginally in excess of the exemption limit of $2,210 - 
For the benefit of the Minister, who may not have been informed by bis colleague, I point out that is the exemption limit- will not have to pay the full 1.35 per cent levy; their contributions will be calculated on the basis of 50c in each $1 . . . 
That is vastly different from the Minister's statement to me and the reply to interjections tonight that no one on $3,000 a year would be paying anything into any fund and that in those circumstances the wife on $60 a week would not be expected to pay anything Let us look at the White Paper that is supposed to explain to the people of this nation the facts of this nefarious scheme that is based on deceit. The only table that has been produced starts at an annual taxable income of $1,200. Does any honourable senator know anybody who is getting an annual salary of $1,200? 
It may be. I appreciate that, as a fellow senator,  Senator Poyser  would know what a senator is worth. Whatever we may get, the honourable senator studiously avoided answering the quesiton. Does the honourable senator know anybody whose salary is the amount at which the Government's table starts, that is, $1,200 a year? Where does the table that is supposed to explain everything to the people who are going to pay finish? It finishes at $2,272, which is $40 a week. It explains what the people will have to pay from their wages in those circumstances. For example a person earning $2,272 a year or $40 week and who claimed $100 for his dependants would still have to pay $30.67 a year into this allegedly free medical service. I am not kidding. I point out to  Senator people  who is trying to interject, that it is his Government's White Paper that is kidding. It is the Government's explanation of the true situation.  Senator O  'Byrne talked earlier about people telling lies. Fancy  Senator O  'Byrne, who was one of the sponsors of this allegedly honest White Paper, talking about people telling lies. 
Even if a person earning $2,272 a year had dependants for which he could claim $100 he would still have to pay a levy of $30.67 a year, which is vastly different from the answer given by the Minister for the Media that a housewife on $3,000 a year would pay nothing. That has been reiterated tonight by supporters of the Government, which shows that they have not had fully explained to them the provisions of the legislation which they are suggesting should be passed by the Parliament. I have asked a question as to whether the levy would be taxed deductible. I will argue that point fully if I can overcome the interjections. That has been a basic principle of medical costs in this nation. Let us examine why. The principle has been adopted in Australia of medical charges being considered to be an item deductible from one's taxable income. We all know that anyone who operates a truck or runs a wholesale or retail business - 
Yes, even pornographic literature, if  Senator Poyser  is desirous of buying it. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)-  Order! 
Anyone who runs a business is entitled to claim for the depreciation of his equipment. 
Yes, the bare facte. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There are too many exchanges across the chamber. I ask honourable senators to desist. 
The principle has been adopted that a taxpayer should be allowed to claim for his medical expenses. We have carried that principle into the lives of every individual. We have recognised that to earn an annual income an individual needs bodily health, that whatever he spends on maintaining the health of his body is spent on maintaining the health of the tax producing agent, that without his health he cannot produce the income on which he has to pay taxes and that without his health he cannot rear the family that will pay the future taxes of this nation. 
-Senator O'Byrne said that it is elementary. But the Government of which he is a supporter is the first Government to cut out the principle of tax deductibility for health costs. The 1.35 per cent levy, which I will analyse a little more in a moment for  Senator O  'Byrne's edification, will not be tax deductible, as medical costs have been in the past. He knows that the Government has been trying to hide this from the people of the nation and that it has been doing so to try to give some truth to the lie that three out of four families will be better off financially under this scheme. The honourable senator knows very well that they will not. Half the population of Queensland pays nothing at all at the moment; yet it will have to pay the 1.35 per cent. Despite that the Government says that three out of four families will be better off. The example of that State alone condemns the truth or the accuracy of what the Government is trying to put forward and the methods that it has adopted. Is it not a strange coincidence that the figures to which I have referred have been reproduced elsewhere? We have had presented to us what is known as the Green Paper, which is a booklet entitled 'Health Insurance Planning Committee Report'. It includes a table entitled Levy payable at selected levels of taxable incomes and deductions for dependents '. 
I have the White Paper in front of me. It is the last paper the Government issued. But let us take the documents in their proper sequence. I hope  Senator McAuliffe  and I are both searching for the truth. This document starts at a taxable income of $ 1 ,200. The children who run bazaars at schools earn nearly that much now. University students earn nearly $1,200 doing part time work at Christmas. The table in this document, which must have cost thousands of dollars to produce and which has been prepared to explain to the people what they will pay, terminates at $1,951. Who ever heard of people getting those sorts of salaries today? Who is it supposed to fool? Who would believe that this is what people will pay? It says: 'A taxpayer with no deductions for dependents on $1,951 will pay $26.33'. But nobody is working for that salary today. This is supposed to be explaining the scheme to the people of this nation. What a lot of hypocrisy that is. But that is only the first document. I have been challenged and told we should come up to date. I quoted before from the White Paper. That went one step further; it went right up to $2,272. 
I got no explanation from Don Chipp. 
-A briefing? We talked about another Bill, and you will hear about that later. It was not Don Chipp who advised me 4 weeks ago not to put any questions on notice to your Ministers who were so imbecillic they could not even answer them. Yet a Press Secretary for one of them was able to give a simple yes or no to a radio report. You were trying to camouflage the cost of this system and you know it. I want to come up to date with the cost because it is very necessary that people should get a practical scale. If the Government will not tell them what it is, the Democratic Labor Party is always there with the truth to explain it to the people. The average weekly wage today is $ 1 1 1 . 
-That was published in the newspapers the other day. If you want to know, go and find out. That is what your Minister told me when I asked a question. I have 10 minutes to go and I am going to tell my story, not yours. That average weekly wage gives an annual salary of $5,772. We could allow some $200 to get an even figure as an approximation. I do not propose to be accurate right up to $2,000 like the Government's paper was. I am prepared to be a little more loose about it. Let us accept the annual taxable income as $5,500. A man earning that salary will pay tax of $1,080. I notice the Minister reach for his pen. I hope he writes down these figures. I have worked them out and I hope he gets his skilled assistants, who to date have failed, to check my figures. That man will pay to the Government's scheme, if his wife is not working, $74.25. He will get no tax deduction on that- although under the old scheme he would have got $24 of that as a tax deduction- and he will finish up paying $74.25. But let us suppose he wants a private ward or treatment by his own doctor. He cannot have his own doctor unless he insures for private hospital treatment and it is estimated, by the Government spokesman, I understand, that it will cost him another $100 a year. So if his wife is not working he is up for $174 to keep his own doctor. The Government is making much of the fact that a patient can keep his own doctor, so we ought to work out the figures on that basis. 
Of course, if the man's wife is working for a salary of only $50 a week, she will pay something, although the Minister told me here that she will pay nothing at all. We are on the verge of equal pay for the sexes and not many women will be working for $50 a week. But let us imagine that this wife is working for $50 a week. She will pay on that $50 a week $35.10 into the Government's scheme and it will not be tax deductible. If she too wants her own doctor, she will have to pay another $100. So the poor people on the average wage for whom this is supposed to be free medicine have to pay $174.25, if the wife does not work. If the wife does work, the couple must add $135.10 to that sum to know precisely what it will cost them if one has to undergo a major operation in a private hospital. Yet the Government senators say that they are for the little man. The Labor Party is for the little man? These are the facts. 
All right. Sit there in silence, but do not bleat, because these are the facts from your own White Paper. These are the amounts that you have told us it will cost. 
You tell me where I am misrepresenting it. You know you cannot. These are the facts. These are the figures that confound you. Someone mentioned tonight the figure that somebody on $8,000 a year would pay.  Senator McAuliffe  from Queensland who mentioned the man on $8,000 a year will sit in silence and listen to what he will pay. Such a person would earn more than $8,000 because he will get other deductions. I say this in case the Minister wants to mislead us as he tried to do the other night. Let us presume that the taxpayers taxable income is $8,000 a year. He will pay, first of all, $2,025 in income tax; he will pay $108 for the privilege of having the free medical service provided by  Mr Hayden;  and he will pay another $100 for his own doctor if he wants him, and the Government says that he ought to have him and that it wants him to have him. That is a total of $208 that he will pay besides $2,025 income tax. Let us hope that his wife does not work; let us hope that she too is not a recipient of $8,000 a year, otherwise they will be up for about $500 before they are finished to get free medicine for the family. 
It is $416. Do you want more detail? I will give it to you. I was prepared to be broad. It will be $416 if both earn the same amount because of equal pay for the sexes. Added to that cost will be $5 for a major operation performed by the doctor and another $5 for the anaesthetist. Do you want me to go any further or are you satisfied with your free medicine? Of course you are satisfied; you know that you are. This gives the lie to the claim that this Government has been trying honestly to outline to the people what the system really means. But what we in the Democratic Labor Party object to more than anything else is this philosophy that a doctor is interested only in money. This is the approach of the Minister who introduced this legislation and who condemned himself and his proposition before he started. I will table this document if there is any challenge to it, because this is the Government's document. It is portion of an address delivered by Bill Hayden in the Melbourne Town Hall on 28 November. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Byrne)-  Order!  Senator Little,  are you going to table that document at the end of your speech? 

The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- You are entitled to do that only by leave of the Senate. At that point you can ask for leave. 
I will ask for leave at that point. It is a document presented by  Mr Hayden,  Minister for Social Security, to a meeting organised by the Trade Union Council. On the opening page he has this gem of wisdom designed to get the co-operation of everybody. In view of what I have said about the White Paper, I hope that honourable senators will not go into hysterics. He said: 
Because we have been so open about our Program- because we have not chosen to formulate our policies and our legislation within cosy establishment circles- . . . That is simply the price of open government. 
He would not answer a simple question to enable us to evaluate his scheme. But that perhaps is personal. At page 3 he goes on to say: 
It's a kind of fire in the belly of our whole legislative program . . . 
That is not language that I would normally use, but I am quoting from the Minister's speech. He wenton: 
. and I'm not going to allow it to be strangled by a web of deceit spun by people with primitive social values. . . . So let's look at just who these opponents of our health insurance proposals are and what are the causes of their behaviour. 
Then we turn over to find out who are the people and also how the Government is helping the low and middle income earners. He said: 
. we are seen to be challenging the right of the private medical profession. . . . 
Indeed they are because on pages 6, 7 and 8 we get the real gem as to why the Government's scheme has failed and why it is being rejected now by the whole of the Australian community which does not want to be divorced from its medical services and the expertise of the people necessary to carry them out. The Minister used this conciliatory statement to the people without whom no medical service can function successfully. He said this: 
AMA and General Practitioners' Society spokesmen have, with their hands on their hearts and oozing righteousness, stated that it is not money they are interested in. 
Yet, beneath that sanctimonious facade, every counterproposal they make somehow is based on money. 
That is the opinion of the Minister- who is trying to implement this scheme- of the medical profession which has to carry it out. This is so whether he likes it or not. He could not treat a billy-goat. Does he know the philosophy of young people who become doctors? They do not earn a penny until the are 25 or 26 years of age. With the present taxation structure it takes them years to get into the swim of things. Many people go into commerce, industry and law. Some of the doctors main critics in this Parliament are making fortunes long before doctors get a tolerably decent income. The Minister on page 8 of this document, which I shall seek leave to table, says: 
Again, a group of people interested in private hospitals- and I don't mean Catholic hospitals or private hospitals as a whole . . . 
He gets a little sectarian here. I do not know why Catholic hospitals are any different from Church of England hospitals, Methodist hospitals or other hospitals. I want to know why the Minister selected a particular religion. 
-You might think you know, my friend, but like many others you think wrong. The Minister goes on:  . . I don't mean Catholic hospitals or private hospitals as a whole because the group I refer to is not, I believe, truly representative of private hospitals- seems to think that by applying pressure tactics they can screw more money out of the Government. 
So here is a Minister who in relation to the medical profession and hospitals of this country thinks that all they are interested in is screwing money out of the people. In all professions, even politics, there are people who have no intention but to screw money out of the people. I have never believed that they represent the majority of honourable senators in this chamber. I am not prepared to say about any other profession the sorts of things that the Minister is saying of this profession which he wants to co-operate in the implementation of one of the most important programs which face this nation- our medical health service. That is the standard which the Minister adopts in this speech when he describes in such a manner the vital factors of the health industry of this country. I seek leave at this stage to table the statement. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  You may seek leave of the Senate at the conclusion of your speech. 
I shall do that. In summing up the whole program I say to the Senate that I believe that there is a lot of deceit in this matter. I believe that we face a very important decision in relation to this Bill. I believe that the Government should have explained to every rank of income-earner in this country precisely what he is faced with when he compulsorily goes into this scheme. I believe the Government is obliged to compare the cost with what he has paid in the past. The Government has not done that. It has camouflaged the situation. It has not told the journalists. It has not told the bootmaker. It has not told the ironworker. It has told a mythical few people who work part-time for $40 to $50 a week what the scheme will mean to them. In 2 big documents the Government has not been honest enough to carry the matter the necessary step further. Let us face up to the fact of the basis of the philosophy. Should people who earn higher incomes, who are taxed under a system of graduated taxation to level off incomes to some comparable basis, time and again in every activity be penalised because they work harder and because they are more highly skilled? The trade union movement has been in favour of margins for skill for years. 
Let us look at the person who gets a sumptuous salary- like the journalist who reports this Parliament-of, say, $1 1,000 a year. He will pay $150 which, for the first year, the Government says is the maximum. A person pays $3,368 of his $11,000 in taxation. That brings his total income, of course, to a mere $7,482. Out of that we have to take $150 for medical benefits and another $100 to insure him for private hospital treatment. Let us hope his wife is not working too because he will have to have a major operation every 6 months to keep square. Yet the Minister, with this sort of proof, has the audacity to try to tell this nation that three out of four people will be better off. I give him the lie. Nothing like three or four people will be better off. On his own figures in the White Paper he has little children on $20-odd a week paying $16.20 into the new scheme. But the Minister goes to great pains to say that if that person has dependants that gives him an exemption of $ 1.I have never seen on the taxation form that one can get an exemption of $1.I do not know why the Minister has included $1, $2, $3 and why he has then jumped to $25. This is supposed to be a valid table. He finishes up with $ 1 00 or more. 
Have honourable senators heard of anyone at the moment who is working for $20-odd a week with deductions of $ 100 for taxation purposes? A person would have to be about 15 years of age with a couple of children to receive that deduction. But the Minister would say: 'Well, if you do not have any children on $20 a week you have to pay $ 1 6.20. But if you have a child we will let you in for nothing. But do not be too enthusiastic because that will cut out when you get up to about $2,2 10 a year. ' This is all in the White Paper for everybody to read. The hypocrisy of this Government! We ought to reject the Bill. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask for leave to table this document which is a Ministerial Press statement issued by the Australian Government Publishing Office. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Treasurer aware that the previous Liberal Government, when it fixed the interest rate at 6.97 per cent on longterm Government Securities in 1970, agreed to a fixation, for the first time, of the interest rate at 3.75 per cent on savings bank accounts under $4,000. 
Does the Treasurer know that the Government maintained this penalty on savings bank accounts under $4,000 until it was dismissed in December 1972. 
Did the Labor Government receive advice from the previous Liberal Government when it increased the long-term bond interest rate to 8.S per cent and also compound an injustice by continuing a fixed rate of 3.75 per cent interest on the savings account of workers, or was this a coincidence. 
Will the Treasurer review this injustice to help preserve some equity of workers' savings bank accounts now that the inflation rate is depriving them of over one-eighth of the total each year. 
I present the following petition from 285 Citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament Assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The Australian Prime Minister and the Australian Government voice emphatic protest to the Premier and Government of the USSR, at the government enforced exile of the Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn from his home in the USSR. 
We call on the Australian Government to instruct the Australian delegation at the United Nations to raise the Solzhenitsyn case and that of Soviet writers, historians, scientists, patriots and other defenders of the rights of the people, who are in grave danger as a result of exercising their basic right of free expression. 
Petition received and read. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That consideration of the National Health Bill (No. 3) 1973 be restored to the notice paper and resumed at the stage it had reached in the last session. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
. That the Senate is of the opinion that the Government should immediately implement a national emergency program to halt inflation. 
That the program should include the following measures: A reduction in public spending and wastage in administration; measures to stop the drift towards industrial anarchy instanced by the enormous increase in strike action and the imposition of black bans by trade union leaders; and recognition by the Government that the right to work is equally to be safeguarded as the right to strike. In view of the decision by the Economic Advisory Committee to the  President  of the United States of America to reduce interest rates by 2 per cent next year to combat inflation, a complete reexamination of the high interest rates policy of the Government that has failed to combat inflation should be undertaken. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister agree that the Fabian Society is a social reform discussion group which enjoys close links with the Australian Labor Party, especially in its views on welfare proposals? Is the Minister aware that in a recent issue of the 'Fabian Newsletter' the Secretary of the Fabian Society,  Mr Jim  Kennan, strongly urged the Government to extend the arrangements under the present National Health Act to provide adequate cover for low income earners, pensioners and the unemployed, who are presently disadvantaged? Are not these proposals urged by the Fabian Society precisely the same as those provided for under the Democratic Labor Party's Health Bill? Will the Minister now study the Democratic Labor Party's Bill carefully in order, to use the words of the Secretary of the Fabian Society, 'to reduce the inequalities and provide better health insurance'? 
-The formalities having been cleared up, I move: 
That the National Health Bill (No. 3) 1973 be restored to the notice paper and consideration resumed at the stage it had reached in the last session. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support the amendment moved by the Opposition, perhaps for reasons different from those which have been given. We are not particularly concerned that the Address-in-Reply debate has been put aside. That happens quite often to Address-in-Reply debates for important parliamentary reasons. The DLP has occupied a situation of great responsibility in the Senate for a long time. It has been part of our responsibility to see that governments, whatever their political complexion, made up of majority parties do not become arrogant in the application of the power that is unquestionably and rightfully theirs to the point that they exercise that power unwisely, not in accordance with the Constitution or against the interests of the people. Whenever in the past we have seen signs of arrogance creeping in we have not worried about the political complexion of the government. We have stopped it. That is the reason why the public has supported us and has sent us here in growing numbers after each successive election to carry out that particular task. 
I have seen nothing more unconvincing in my life than the performance tonight of the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  With the manner of a small boy he has put forward propositions to the Senate. He has referred to discussions which took place before Christmas on similar legislation and has suggested that our Party took an attitude then that it must consistently adopt forever. He knows the reason why we were prepared to suspend Standing Orders on that occasion. There was a very good parliamentary reason. There is no parliamentary reason on this occasion because, as has been pointed out, these propositions can be put before the people irrespective of the view in the final analysis of this House. He does not even know what our final views will be on these Bills, in spite of efforts he may make to divert our attention into directions that he prefers. A Government supporter said a moment ago: Why have repetition, because these matters were discussed here some months ago?' He now nods his head. But there has been repetition because the matter was hotly contested and discussed within the Government's own Party before the legislation was brought back here. 
There was the greatest doubt that these Bills would ever see the light of day here again because the Government itself was not convinced that the public should have the right to decide. The Government was not too sure that it would help its chances in the Senate election campaign. Indeed, it was published freely in the newspapers of this country that had been so much in support of the Government that these expressions of opinion within the Australian Labor Party were so numerous and so strong that the Prime Minister was in a very decided minority in believing that the people should have a say on this matter. It was only when he was prepared to put it on the line that they might not have him as a Prime Minister that they agreed that the matter should even come back to the Parliament so that it could be put before the people again. Yet we are the ones who are charged with trying to frustrate the people in having their say. 
Of course, we are quite wrongly charged because that is not our intention at all. If the Government wants to guillotine legislation through the other House, it has the numbers there to do so. Government supporters in this House talk about the rights of the people to express their point of view. Until these propositions are passed by this House of the Parliament, in which the people are now at this moment expressing their point of view through their elected representatives who are in the majority, Government senators cannot complain. Whilst it is true that, under the rules laid down in the Constitution, in a referendum the people will express their point of view, I must point out that until that stage is reached we, the senators in this place and the members in another place, are the people who express their point of view. If the Government does not have the numbers in this place, it cannot demand that this chamber behave in a manner that  Senator Murphy,  as the Leader of the Government Party, thinks that it should behave. He will accept here the will of the people expressed by the majority vote of this chamber by the elected representatives of the people. Of course, if on this occasion in its wisdom the Senate should reject the proposition that these proposals should even go to the people, we know that they nevertheless will go to the people. It would be then for the people to say whether those who gave the opinion that the proposals were not matters worthy of being put before them at this time were right or wrong. 
I know the view that is expressed by many of the Government's Party officials,' supporters, members of Parliament and leading people about what the people will say when they receive these propositions presented in conjunction with the confusion of a huge Senate ticket, as will be the case in many States where the people might have to vote for up to 40 or 45 positions on the ballot paper. It is the Government, or rather the Prime Minister, who is being stubborn about the matter in spite of the advice he has received from his electoral experts. But the representatives of the people in the Senate cannot be bludgeoned into silence. We must express our point of view on behalf of the people. If by a majority the representatives of the people say that it is foolish to put these matters to the people at this time, they have a right to say that and the people may very well support that contention when it is put to them. If the people reject it, those honourable senators who have expressed the point of view would be the first to accept the will of the people on the question. 
We are operating here as a democratic parliamentary institution. All these slurs about the Senate and its members, and the claim that democracy will be denied are a red herring drawn across the trail that is being laid by this legislation. This motion that consideration of the Bills be adjourned for this specific period- until next Wednesday- is the ordinary common procedure of this Parliament. When there are signs that a government will take the bit in its teeth and force its views- its minority views- on the majority in  this chamber by threats, by bludgeon tactics or by any other method, the Australian Democratic Labor Party in this corner knows where its vote has always been cast in the past with the approval of the people. That is where its vote will be cast on this occasion. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation aware of the growing tent town on the parklands opposite Parliament House? Does the Minister know that the number of canvas dwelling alienating these parklands is now six? If he proposes to permit permanent occupation, will he contact the appropriate Minister to arrange for the establishment of toilet blocks to protect the public health? 
-On the previous occasion that this Bill was before the Senate it was referred to a committee of the Senate, and that action has been interpreted by the Government as a failure to pass. The Bill has been returned for consideration. To be consistent, we should vote again for its referral to a committee to ensure that the committee did the job which it was asked to do, and that is to examine all the ramifications of the proposition which it to be placed before the people as an alteration to the Constitution. But that course does not seem to be logical now. We recognise that the Government will be able to refer to the representative of Her Majesty, the Governor-General, this proposition and seek the right to put it to the people in accordance with the Constitution. The Government has the constitutional right to do so. The decision that the referral to a committee was a failure to pass is arguable but unimportant now that the matter has reached this stage. The Government's action is another of the rash mistakes which it has made in the very short term of its office and which it may come to regret. 
Speaking as a representative of a State, the things which we should consider to be important are the reasons which the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  has given the Senate as the reasons we should not consider these propositions. He has implied that the Senate has no right to consider them. He has said that because the matters will be put to the people in a referendum we must automatically agree, without having an opinion of our own. He has become very tender about the costs involved- as if the costs involved in altering the Constitution are important compared with the right of the people to have the proposition properly presented to them and to understand fully the alteration which the Government proposes to make to the Constitution. That is the point with which I wish to deal firstly. 
Is it possible, in the time available between now and the date of the Senate election, for this proposition and, I understand, four others, if the Government has its will, to be placed before the people and for an explanation to be given to the people at large about precisely what they are votting on? Is it the will of the Government that the parties should have no time to campaign for the return of their senators, or does the Government believe that in a fortnight's campaign 5 propositions to alter the Constitution can be seriously debated for the understanding of the public, most of whom have not read the Constitution or understood what it means, and at the same time the functions which politicians have a responsibility to fulfil- that is, in an election campaign to place before the people their ideas, their programs and what they stand for- can be fulfilled? Politicians, irrespective of the Party to which they belong, have a responsibility in a democracy, unless they reside in one of those privileged nations which has either a fascist or a communist dictatorship. But this Government says that in the space of perhaps a fortnight, which it proposes to allow for a Senate election campaign, the whole ramifications of these proposals shall be discussed and fully explained to the people who will be expected to give an intelligent decision on the Government's propositions. Is that the Government's idea of democracy? 
The Government says: 'Expense will be saved if the referenda are held at the same time as the Senate election'. Is it more important to save expense than to get from the people a considered and proper decision on questions of importance? I do not remember the Government being so tender about the question of costs when a referendum on prices was put recently. In fact, it was so tender about costs that half the Government campaigned in favour of the proposal, and the other half of the Government campaigned to defeat it. The result of the exercise was that the money which was spent on the referendum was wasted because the people became completely confused by a government, half of which was campaigning one way, and the other half of which was campaigning another way. That was another rash attempt to place before the people a matter for their serious consideration. The people gave this Government an answer to such an approach to a serious question of that character. 
It is an insult to the Senate for the Leader of the Government to say: 'You have had these things here before. You had better put them through. They shall be put to the people anyway. You do not need to express an opinion on them'. We are expressing an opinion on them. The Government's action is not the right way to do the serious things of government. It wishes to fiddle with the Constitution which took years of consideration by the fathers of Federation to compile and which gives us the whole basis on which the democracy of this country has functioned. The Government wishes to alter the Constitution in this cavalier fashion because it is the 
Government. No real arguments have been advanced as yet as to why the Senate should pass this Bill without due consideration. It should not be asked to do that. There are serious considerations involved in this matter. It is true that the continuity of the Senate could be broken. The continuity of the Senate is something which the founders of Federation were very careful to preserve. 
I warn the Government against persisting with its attitude of proceeding with great haste in relation to matters of such importance. We are now faced with the proposition that half the membership of the Senate should be altered in this disgraceful manner because of the cowardice of the Government. If the Government had wanted to save money it could well have held a Senate election in conjunction with the prices referenda. The prices referenda were held at about the usual time that a Senate election is conducted. But the Government failed to do so. I suppose it was acting with its rights. It was not a judicious time for it to face the electors for judgment on its policies and the things that it has done. The raids on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were too fresh in the minds of the people. In a cowardly fashion the Government run away from such a proposition. 
I warn the Government that a situation is approaching which could get completely beyond its control. The raids on ASIO are nothing compared with the situation that might be created in the very near future by the actions of the Government. We are now in the month of March. It has been rumoured that in the month of May there will be a Senate election in conjunction with 5 referenda questions. I want to remind the Government of what the Constitution says about Senate elections. It states that the election to fill vacant places shall be made within one year before the places are to become vacant. The Government has had a whole year in which to hold an election but is going to wait until less than 2 months before the positions become vacant before it allows the decisions to be made that will ensure the continuity of the Senate. 
In recent years requests for recounts have been granted. Not all requests have been granted. I remember being the subject of one request that was rejected because the closeness of the numbers did not constitute a reason for a recount, but 3 years later when  Senator McManus  was in an unbeatable position a recount was granted because the numbers were said to be close. He finished up winning after the recount by some 200,000 votes, which was a much as he was going to win by after the first count. Has the Government forgotten how long it took to conduct that recount? If that election had taken place only 6 weeks before the expiration of the terms of service of the sitting senators the State of Victoria could have been without 5 of its representatives until such time as the Constitution was legally interpreted on this question. The Constitution says more than that the election to fill the vacant places shall be made within one year before the places are to become vacant; it goes on to say that the term of service of a senator so appointed shall be taken to begin on the first day of July following the day of his election. 
That introduces serious implications. What would be the position if an election were held only 6 weeks before the expiration of the terms of service of senators and if the writs have not been returned by the first day of July because of a recount? According to the Constitution the term of service of a senator who is elected at such an election cannot begin until the first day of July of the following year. One could not interpret 1 July 1974 as being the first day of July following their election if their election does not in fact take place until 2, 3 or 4 July. There is another provision of the Constitution that says that the Senate may proceed to the dispatch of business notwithstanding the failure of any State to provide for its representation in the Senate. 
-Senator McAuliffe will have an opportunity in a moment to stand up and give his interpretation of the situation. He is a clever man. I am not professiong to say that what I am putting will inevitably be found to be right; I am reading the Constitution as it is. It should be remembered that I am now quoting from a document which the Government is going to ask the people to alter in 5 different ways and that it is going to ask them to do so during the period of a fortnight while it is conducting an election campaign. Does  Senator McAuliffe  consider that to be democracy? He says that one has to be a Queen's Counsel to understand what I am putting. 
All right. I think that the people will understand me, because I am speaking in simple terms. I am reading the qualifications set out in the actual document itself. If  Senator McAuliffe  can put any other interpretation on the words 'the first day of July following the day of his election' than a date that follows the date of a senator's election he is a genius because no one else in the world could put such an interpretation on such a provision in the Constitution. I ask the Government to give serious consideration to this matter. It is even more inportant than the raid on ASIO. The Government can rush around smashing in doors and knocking on doors at 3 o'clock in the morning and arresting people, and get away with it, but it cannot get away with fiddling with the Constitution on which this very parliamentary system is based. 
Because of its political cowardice the Government has not already got the election out of the way. It could well have got the election out of the way, but it has postponed holding it until almost the last minute. With most Senate elections it takes 2.5 months before the final conclusions are reached, but this time the Government will be allowing only 6 weeks. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is, of course, above common sense. I know that he has been called to the Bar. It is a matter of which bar he has been called to. I understand that he has legal qualifications. Despite that he says that the words 'the election to fill vacant places shall be made within 1 year before the places are to become vacant' means as long as the election itself is conducted before then. The voting procedure is only a small part of an election. An election is the actual election of the person concerned. In my view that occurs on the day on which the returning officer declares the person elected and returns the writs. That cannot happen on voting day. I note that the Prime Minister has suggested that, according to his legal mind, so long as it is conducted before 30 June everything is all right. I do not have a legally trained mind, but I question whether he is right in this respect. I am suggesting that the Government should have at least provided qualified opinions as to whether what the Prime Minister has put is correct before it came forward with all this malarkey about democracy. 
One of the subjects of the referendum proposals is the subject of democratic elections. Despite that the Government is trying to conduct its affairs in this manner and is saying that the Opposition has no right to oppose it in the Parliament and that Opposition senators have no right to do the job that they were sent to this place to do. The Government is not prepared to hear argument from those who were democratically elected by the people to represent them here. Let me say to the people of Australia that the members of the Opposition would be very deficient in discharging their duties to them if they were not to place before this House first the arguments as to why the Government is wrong in suggesting that these propositions should be put in this manner. The Government is wrong in demanding the right to put them in this manner. 
The Government is entitled to avail itself of the terms of the Constitution and to place referendum proposals before the people, but will it have the opportunity in the time available to it to put to the people the arguments for and against the 5 questions involved? Will the political parties that are charged with the responsibility of performing this task have an opportunity to do so at the same time as they place before the people the campaigns for the election of their candidates? Will they be able to do that inside a fortnight? I have heard that it has been proposed that the election campaign should go on at the same time as the Parliament is sitting. Does the Government call that democracy? What about the democratic rights of members of Parliament? I know the background of most senators opposite. I know what they said when in Opposition. If a Government had attempted to do to them what they are doing to those in Opposition now, they would have done what I would have expected the great Labor movements of Curtin and Chifley to do. But now they have lost it- they have lost their ideals and their courage. They have increased interest rates for the poor. They have done everything that they should be ashamed to do- and they will not get our acquiescence in this. We think they are wrong, that they are doing it the wrong way and we will not vote that way. We will vote to prevent this proposition passing the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. If, as the Minister suggested today, higher interest rates are costing the Government more than the inflow of taxes collected on the excessively high profits of the money market, will the Government now, as a first step, abandon its agreement with private and other banks to limit interest on the savings accounts of workers to 3.75 per cent while the banks receive up to 10 per cent for relending their money? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party is opposed to the Bill. We agree with the Leader of the Country Party in the Senate  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  that the Bill is misnamed. In no shape or form can it be called a Democratic Elections Bill because it contains nothing to define a democratic election precisely. Countries all over the world are described as democracies, but whether they hold democratic elections in the true sense of that expression is very much an arguable point. Merely to call a measure a Democratic Elections Bill does not mean that it attains that very high ideal. Nothing in the Bill suggests that it will attain that ideal. In the final analysis what  Senator Drake-Brockman  said is right. It is an attempt by the Commonwealth to arrogate power to interfere in the domestic affairs of the States by informing them of the opinion of the Commonwealth and then seeking to make that opinion binding upon them in respect of what constitutes a democratic election. This was never envisaged at the time of Federation when the States became partners in the Commonwealth. 
The Party that is responsible for this Bill has brought forward various suggestions, in its years out of office when it has resented the fact that it could not win government, as to what would constitute democratic elections. The slogan of one vote one value was first mooted when today's Government was very much rapt in the idea that first past the post voting was one vote one value and democratic. At that time Labor endeavoured to argue that preferential voting, which has served Australia very well, meant that people had 2 votes. I have heard that argued by members of the Labor Party. They suggested that the system should be abolished in favour of first past the post voting. They argued that under preferential voting a person virtually had 2 votes. But the truth is nothing of the sort. That is a completely ridiculous interpretation of preferential voting. It has not proved to be completely and absolutely democratic, any more than any other system that I know of has proved to be absolutely democratic. But it certainly has proved to be far closer to democracy than first past the post voting, which was the love child, if I may call it that, of the Labor Party for a considerable period of time. 
There is nothing in this legislation to suggest that the Labor Party, when in government in the States or the Commonwealth would not again interpret first past the post voting as a democratic system. I suggest that we look at what has happened in Great Britian where attempts to introduce a system of voting such as we have in Australia have failed on several occasions. It is not so in some of the advanced European countries, such as the Scandinavian countries. About 20 years ago I happened to be in those countries when they were conducting elections. I was privileged to visit the polling booths with politically minded people who boasted that in their country elections were conducted on the Australian system of voting. They followed the preferential system which, to a large extent, was pioneered in Australia. 
The democratic principle is embodied in the fact that people vote preferentially and mark more than one number on a ballot paper. That does not necessarily mean that they vote twice or that they are having more than one vote. It means that the people resolve the difference between the 2 candidates who are left when those candidates who obtained a smaller number of votes have been eliminated. In the recent elections in Great Britain a government was elected with about 37 per cent of the total community vote. It was not elected democratically at all. How could it be? Not half of the electorate has said that it wants such a government. Under the first past the post system of voting, which is the system in England, England is stuck with a government which has the support of only 37 per cent of the electorate. The 2 major parties have always fought to retain the system because they have recognised that it is to their advantage to retain such a system of voting. 
If one studies the results of the recent British election and if one keeps in mind the very clear enunciation of principle only a few days ago from the Government sponsoring this Bill in the Senate- the Government said it would fight to install a 2-party system of government in this country because it is the only proper way to get an efficient government- one sees the clash between the democratic ideals which the Government has placed in the name of the Bill and the Government's intentions. A member of the Labor Government recently said, without equivocation, that the Party's ambition was to get a 2-party system of politics in this country, irrespective of the fact that many people might want to support smaller minority groups. 
An analysis of the British figures shows that Labour polled 37.2 per cent of the votes. It won 301 seats out of 635. The Liberal Party in England polled 1 9.3 per cent of the votes. It got only 2 per cent of the seats in the House- 14 out of 635. So the difference between 19 percent and 37 percent is the difference between 14 seats and 301 seats, enabling Labour at the moment to form a minority government when it does not have twice the number of votes of a minority party which has only 14 seats in the House. In the recent election the Liberal Party made enormous gains, but it gained no extra seats in the House. The mere fact of it gaining more votes meant that it took primary votes from the 2 major parties, which ensured that one of the major parties would be faced with a situation of having to form a minority government. Nobody knows whom the defranchised percentage of voters would have voted for. Those voters virtually did not have a vote. If they did not vote for either the Conservative Party or the Labour Party they virtually did not have a vote. They have been virtually defranchised. Nobody knows whom they would have preferred of the Conservative Party or the Labour Party to govern Great Britain in this very trying period. Some commentators will state that Labour will be there only for a short period before there will have to be another election. Under the same system of voting, a similar result could ensue. What would this do to a country which is governed under this set of circumstances? It would be an enormous tragedy, and it is a great tragedy for Great Britain today because it finds itself in these circumstances. 
Yet a party which sets out to obtain a 2-party system of politics, irrespective of the number of people who may want to support other parties, is prepared to come forward with an ambiguous sort of proposal which does not in itself mean anything or does not lay down what is to be the democratic system. The proposal merely uses the word 'democratic'. As I have tried to illustrate, there are many systems which could be considered democratic systems. The system which I have just enunciated and which has been conducted in one of the greatest democracies in the world- the mother of the parliaments which we have in this country- is a democratic system. Yet its system of electing members to the House of Commons is not democratic and cannot be accepted as democratic. What purpose is to be served by placing before the people a referendum which merely enunciates that election shall be by a democratic system of voting, when the system is not spelt out so that the people can judge for themselves whether the ideal which is contained in the name of the Bill will be attained? 
I suppose the most democratic form of election is the proportional representation system which ensures that the representation in the parliament will reflect completely the will of all the people who are entitled to vote and which will give the minorities as well as the majorities the right to have voices in the parliament. Yet it is recognised in many parts of the world that even this great principle can sometimes stultify a democratic government. Out of all these ramifications the Australian Government, dedicated as it is to the electoral ambitions which it has enunciated- that is, of having merely a 2-party system because that is more efficient than a 3, 4, 5 or 6-party system, in its estimation- as long as it is one of the 2 parties, stands four square for the system. But it does not analyse the system to its obvious conclusions. It is not democracy because it is one of the major parties in an electoral system. It is not democracy that one party should have that right. 
If we argue on the basis that such a system gives more efficient and more rapid decisions- it gives whichever of the 2 major parties which is in government the right to govern more rapidly- we rapidly move from that concept of politics to a one-party system of government which, without question, is much more efficient than any other because it strangles its own opposition and it does not have to contend with any disputation or any other points of view. This piece of nonsense, this piece of deception, which it is proposed to place before the people in the form of a referendum is a matter of words. The referendum will not achieve what is set out in the name of this Bill and which is what the Government says it desires to achieve. It is bound to create enormous hostility among the States, which have come together as a cohesive whole for the benefit of the whole nation and which would  never have come together if it had been suggested at the time of Federation that the Commonwealth would take unto itself the power to say to the States what it considers to be a democratic system of election. 
Various States have different systems. Tasmania has had a proportional representation system for many years, and it stands by that system four square. The other States have democratic systems also. There may be some limitations, there may be some criticisms and there may be some suggested improvements, but by and large Australia is a great democratic nation. The States are democratic States. The criticism usually comes from those in politics who cannot win. Over the years the State governments have changed, and have changed more rapidly than the Australian Government, which shows clearly that the system is sufficiently democratic to allow for the  changings  of government and to allow for the emergence of new political thought in the form of minority groups, some of which will unquestionably some day become majority groups, just as the Labour Party emerged in the political history of England from a party which struggled for many years before it won one seat in the House of Commons. Then Keir Hardie was elected, and Labour won its first foothold in the Parliament of England. Would the Labour Party of that day have suggested that only the majority parties of previous days had a right to live politically in a democracy? Of course it would not. 
The Bill is a piece of nonsense. We have expressed our point of view on previous referendum proposals. The other objections which we have had apply to this Bill. It is impossible to argue this case before the people properly because of the manner in which the Government suggests that it should be done, and that is, to conduct a Senate election- to place before the people the intricacies of democratic elections, the various systems which could be argued for and against- and a referendum campaign in a mere matter of a fortnight. 
It is impossible, in a period of a fortnight, to ask the people to change their Constitution in relation to questions of this magnitude and complexity. The other day a member of the Australian Labor Party suggested that one had to be a Queen's Counsel to understand the Constitution. Yet we are to go out onto the hustings and, in a fortnight, explain to the people the Constitution as it now stands and why it should be amended to enable the Commonwealth to impose upon the States a system of voting that is  different from the one they have already accepted. I do not wish to cover the ground covered by the other speakers or to explain how this Bill will lead to the imbalance of electorates that can develop when the qualification is merely the fact that a person is alive- whether an adult or a child and on the rolls or not. All people are to be computed into the numbers which are alleged to make even electorates. This is all a matter of nonsense, as I have said. For these reasons we reject this proposition as not being worthy of being placed before the people at a referendum. 
-The Democratic Labor Party has a great deal of sympathy with the objectives that are laid out in this piece of legislation. We can see a great case for an authority to be established to assist ordinary industries which are a very hazardous proposition on many occasions. Of course, it is not always that mining ventures are successful. One seeks minerals or even finds them, but that does not mean that access to the site will be easy or that the cost of developing the mine, once a deposit has been discovered, will be within reach of the people who discovered it. We can see many reasons why there should be an Authority which could be an equal competitor with private industry and which could stand behind to assist where assistance was required by the industry concerned. But this Bill, from our examination of it, seems to go a lot further than is suggested by its title. Indeed, it goes way beyond the things which it is suggested it would do. This proposed Authority is not to be limited to mining, the quest for petroleum or anything else. 
Right at the beginning of my remarks I want to establish that although I have no intention of mentioning the floods in Queensland- a point of order was taken tonight suggesting that an honourable senator was not within his rights in mentioning that subject in this debate- I draw attention to clause 4 paragraph (a) which states: 
control the flow, and prevent the waste or escape, in that area of petroleum or water; 
There was so much flood water in Queensland that I suppose one could argue that within the ambit of this Bill one could discuss the floods in Queensland. The ambit is so wide that one could discuss the carpet on this floor or the wooden surrounds of the chamber. One could discuss the microphone equipment which allows us to broadcast, or anything else, because these components are brought within the established powers of the Authority which is to be set up. It is suggested in the legislation that the Authority shall consist of 5 people, 3 of whom shall be full time and 2 part time. I do not know who the Government has in mind to appoint to the part time positions. I do not know whether the Government would be able to find a trade union official who is sufficiently close to it these days and who would be able to get sufficient time away from his strike-creating activities to be able to join the proposed authority. 
I accept that, in an authority of this character, if it were not Bob Hawke at least it would be  Mr Halfpenny  or  Mr Mundey  who would be one of the 5 members. I wonder whether 5 members would be sufficient for an authority with the enormous breadth which this Authority is to be given. We do not know who will be  chairman.  But there will be a secretary. I have no doubt that he will come from the Department of Minerals and Energy as is stated in the Bill. I have watched the development of mining industries, particularly large ventures, and have seen that the acquisition of a skill is gained over many years of association with the industry. This enables a project of some magnitude to be carried on successfully. It seems that on the Authority we will have at least a couple of public servants, a couple of part time people and a  chairman  who I hope will be an authority and not a member of the Australian Labor Party who will be defeated at the next election. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Party has been optimistic only when it has been sure that it would win. It is sure that it will win in this Senate election as it has won in the last 3 Senate elections, in spite of the stories from the Australian Labor Party that it was withering on the vine. It has grown from strength to strength. But this is not in the Bill. I abhor the fact that the Labor Party should waste its time as a government in introducing such a subject. We are not on the air today and I do not want to discuss the election which is about to take place. If  Senator MacLaren  incites me tomorrow that might be a different proposition altogether. Whether or not we are on the air I will be able to take care of him tomorrow. 
In my view this Bill covers far more than the title suggests and far more than the second reading speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  suggested when introducing the Bill. He gave some excellent sounding reasons as to why it was necessary. I do not know that foreign capital is racing around madly trying to get control of mineral industries in this country. Recently a foreign company quite deliberately reduced its holdings in Mt Isa Mines Ltd to below the controlling interest in the company by offering the shares to Australian shareholders.  1  believe that there has been a great deal of tremendous benefit for Australia in welcoming and encouraging foreign capital to come in and develop projects which we seem reluctant to develop ourselves. I suppose the bauxite project at Gove is a classic example. Australian shareholders just would not or could not find the sort of capital which was required for the venture. Ultimately a great deal of it was taken up by overseas capital. But the project is now operating in the interests of Australia as much as in the interest of overseas capital. 
In a Bill of this character it is wrong to suggest that a government authority of this nature in this industry will suddenly make every Australian a part-owner of a mine or that he will have any more equity in the project than he would have if it were developed with foreign capital or by anyone else. I have always believed that from wherever we get the capital it should be our objective to retain a major shareholding in Australia. But that does not necessarily enrich every Australian or make him a potential owner of a share in the mine. Quite the contrary. The establishment of this Authority probably will not make one more Australian a mine owner in his own right. Of course, if the Government has an interest there may be some who feel that they have a share in the equity of the mine. But the Government will not reduce anyone 's taxation because the mining project is a success. Once the Government becomes concerned in a project it usually raises taxes to meet losses caused by the incompetence and inefficiency of management which sometimes is allowed to develop. Instead of a person becoming a wealthy shareholder- it was almost suggested in the second reading speech by the Minister that every Australian will automatically become wealthy because this Authority is to be established- he will find that his taxes will go up to help pay for the losses, particularly if the Government unwisely, ill-advisedly and stupidly leaps in during a period of inflation to increase annual leave and to improve all other conditions, quite apart from increasing wages. 
The Government and the trade union officials know that the most inciting factor in inflation is a decrease in the hours of work and the capacity to produce, particularly if the overall hours are reduced by 5 hours from 40 to 35 a week. In this event the means of production, the machinery, is lying idle for another 5 hours a week unless shift work is introduced to keep it fully occupied. Capitalisation has to be increased to maintain productivity at the same level. If productivity falls in a period when demand is being increased all the time there is inflation, and nothing in the world will stop that sort of inflation. One of the great mistakes of this Government was that it raced in with its proposals. Wage increases may be justified and the economy may be able to cope with them. This does not lower production. But unless we gear leave and shorter hours to the capacity of industry to recapitalise and to generate more productivity in the same time- however desirable this may be for those who receive it- we impose an enormous inflationary impetus on the economy which, if it occurs at the same time as wages are being increased, the economy cannot absorb. That is one of the very basic reasons for inflation. At the moment we will leave the other aspect, the strikes which have been engendered by those who feel that they can twist the Government's tail much more easily than they can twist anybody else's tail because they have certain influences on and power of threats which they maintain against the Government. They are creating the stoppage of production by stupid and foolish strikes such as we know are occurring at this very moment. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The urgency motion we are discussing refers to the disgraceful rates of interest chargeable in this country today on borrowed funds. Before we criticise we have to decide whether the situation has arisen from the normal market fluctuations or the market forces that tend to cause fluctuations in industrial rates, or whether it has emanated from deliberate official policy. Those of us who take an interest in these matters must readily recognise that both factors can affect the interest rates in the country. The reasons given for the situation are quite varied. Some people presume that higher interest rates will slow credit and therefore slow demand. There is not much proof in the marketplace that it largely follows that pattern. Indeed, if some steps are not taken to prevent the influx of overseas capital attracted by high rates of interest in a politically stable country such as Australia, even more demand may be created than existed before the increase in interest rates. 
On this occasion before criticising the Government we must decide whether the dominant factor has been the market forces or the Government's deliberate policy. I propose to quote from no less an authority than the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and to ignore what was said by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  when endeavouring to square off in this House a few nights ago. He then suggested that the situation had arisen from the pressure of overseas circumstances. I do not think that he took any real part in the actions leading to an increase in interest rates, but I believe that the Prime Minister primarily understood what the Labor Party was quite deliberately doing, particularly to people with whom Labor had entered into a contract in the last election campaign in order to win their votes. I wish to quote from an address given by the Prime Minister as recently as 14 March. He said: 
We have elevated the status and importance of the trading banks in Australia to a position they have not enjoyed for more than 20 years. We did this by removing the ceiling on bank interest rates for negotiable certificates of deposit. In that way we enabled the banks to compete vigorously for funds on the money market. Instead of being the first institutions to feel the effects of necessary monetary restrictions, the banks are the beneficiaries: other institutions arc forced to compete with them. I suggest that the extraordinary success of our February loan, which attracted $509m in cash subscriptions - 
Of course, the increased interest rates may have helped-  is evidence of the new role we have given to the banks. The private banks- for so long anathema to Labor governmentsarc back on top. I welcome the fact. They are great institutions. My only regret is that 1 have yet to hear any acknowledgement from them of the fact that a Labor Government has restored their position as the dominant financial institutions in this country. 
That cannot be interpreted in any other way than a deliberate statement of policy, lt is clear that the Prime Minister of this country was discarding completely the interests of the little men buying a home, people endeavouring to buy on time payment a refrigerator or washing machine, and the other people in the indebted class in the community. They are seldom the wealthy unless their indebtedness is attractive to them as a tax deduction when expanding their businesses. I renounce the Labor Party that is prepared to put that forward as a deliberate act of policy. I hope there are Labor men in this House who will try to explain it away. I see no explanation for it. The increases in interest rates that were forced upon the community were a deliberate act of policy by the Government and had nothing to do with the market circumstances of the time. Proof of the deliberateness of the intent was the fact that the Australian currency was revalued in  an  endeavour to stop the influx of overseas capital, to coincide with the increase in interest rates. These facts show quite clearly that the Government recognised what the results could be. Yet, this was done to the detriment of those people in the community who could least afford to pay. I refer to the indebted class whose interest rates are not claimable as a taxation deduction, as the debts of businesses invariably are. 
More shocking in its intent was the contract that was deliberately manoeuvred by the Government. In a statement issued by the Prime Minister the reason why the contract was deliberately manoeuvred was given, lt was that, whilst the opportunity was given for the credit institutions of this country to charge 10 per cent, they were not obliged to pay more than 3.75 per cent to those members of the community who had smaller sums of money in savings accounts in banks. That injustice is still being inflicted on the public. I know that the Government has made a move now- after 12 months of effort, particularly by the Democratic Labor Party, to expose the attitude of the Labor Government to the people it allegedly represents- to make tax deductible interest payments that are made on loans for home building purposes. But as yet, in spite of questions we have asked deliberately in this House and in spite of our opposition to Government proposals which do not recognise this need, no move has been made by this Government to remove this injustice from the poorer people of this community who are receiving interest at a paltry 3.75 per cent on their money deposited in the savings banks. The banks are at liberty to re-lend that money at interest rates of up to 10 per cent. Indeed, interest rates of 10.25 per cent are being offered by large companies to attract capital for credit purposes to expand businesses. That, of course, is understandable. The large companies do not really pay 10.25 per cent on that capital. This is a cost of running a business and the cost of expanding a business and this sum is tax deductible from profits. 
I present the following petition from 1 76 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the honourable the  president  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The Australian Prime Minister and the Australian Government voice emphatic protest to the Premier and Government of the U.S.S.R., at the government enforced exile of the Russian writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn from his home in the U.S.S.R 
We call on the Australian Government to instruct the Austrian delegation at the United Nations to raise the Solzhenitsyn case and that of Soviet writers, historians, scientists, patriots and other defenders of the rights of the people, who are in grave danger as a result of exercising their basic right of free expression. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
It is again my turn to kick at this poor old deflated, worn and smashed football of pensions. Succeeding governments over the years have kicked this football around this chamber, boasting of their own accomplishments and speaking about the deficiencies of their predecessors until we have become completely weary of it. I am sure that the pensioners in some way feel contaminated and disgraced every time we have to grab this old football and kick it around again to the glorification of one political party and to the detriment of another. Succeeding governments claim that they do so much for the poor deprived pensioners that nobody else has ever done. 
The Democratic Labor Party time and time again has suggested that this is not the way in which social services should be treated. Social service recipients have rights in the community, the same as members of a parliament, judges, plumbers or bricklayers, who have their incomes fixed by a tribunal which determines what their services are worth to the community. Nobody feels that it is by an act of grace or charity that money is found for them. Why is it that we get this disgraceful performance, this boasting and chest beating in the Parliament, every time the income of social service recipients is revised? These are the people who have served this country best. They are the people with whom age has caught up. The economy of this nation should be sufficiently virilent to give them a standard of living that is theirs by right, not by the charity of politicians who sit in places like this. But we get it every time and we have had it again today; the same old performance, only, of course, the actors have changed places. Those in the centre of the stage today are the people who sat in the wings a year or so ago but it is the same old performance. The same old weary lines are being trotted out; Look at what we have done- more than anyone else has done before. ' The only people who are not convinced are the pensioners who are still battling for a subsistence. 
What has this Government done? It boasts here not only of this increase under discussion but the previous increases that it gave. The Government case is that it has actually put pensions up $3 a week overall. That has not happened in this one increase because even this Government is too ashamed to suggest that the money tokens that it has given on this occasion are actually what they appear to be worth or what it would like to think they are worth. The Government has increased pensions by $3 in one hit but what does this glorious sum of $3 amount to? I picked up the newspaper last night and I realise that it means 1 .5 lb of steak in Sydney. That is all it amounts to for pensioners. It amounts to an extra 1.5 lb of steak because at the moment steak costs over $2 a lb in Sydney. Are pensioners not supposed to eat steak? Do they always have to have the residue of the carcass or are they supposed to be in such a state of health that a diet of steak would be too much for their physiques. 
I am sickened that we have to hear this boasting and witness this chest beating on the part of political parties which say that they have done more than the others and that no one has ever done as much before. Their supporters then try to analyse the situation to prove it. Every honourable senator present would know what we say now and have said for something like 1 5 years; that this is not an issue which should be decided here with all this phoney boasting, cheering and backslapping, and abuse of ones political opponents. The rate of income for pensioners should be established by a tribunal independent of political boastings in this Parliament and independent of an atmosphere of bribing the pensioners, paying them more than someone else to get their votes. These people do not have to be bribed to be able to make a political decision and I do not think they are very much impressed by it. The whole purpose of the plays wearily trotted out is to try to convince the pensioners that they are better off under one government than another. Of course pensioners have the right to be as well off as the economy of this nation can sustain. They do not want to be any better off than that. There is nothing in the statements of this Government, or those of previous governments, to indicate that pensioners have ever approached anything like that status. 
Pensioners have received miserly handouts of increased money tokens but those payments are not taking up the slack. They are not coping with the increases in the cost of living that occur from day to day. It is the pensioners who pay the price for the industrial anarchy that is prevalent in this country today. Because of stoppages sufficient goods are not being manufactured to meet demand. But even this miserly gesture by the Government is adding to this situation from day to day. There is no attempt to curb the nonproduction of goods in order to meet the demand so that inflation will be brought under control. Rather the contrary is the case. 
Plots are being worked out to bribe more votes out of another section of the community in this country. I refer to those people who work for a deliberate wage or are under a deliberate time schedule. The Government says to them: 'We will try to get you the 35-hour week'. Of course, if it implemented a 35-hour week in the full employment situation that exists at the momentthere is currently a shortage of labour and a shortage of goods- it would crucify every pensioner. But such a proposition is being entertained by this Government. As a trade unionist I tell the Government that it is not planning for a better way of life even for the people to whom it wants to give a 35-hour week if it is given in the present circumstances. If the Australian Council of Trade Unions- as a member of 2 unions I happen to be a financial subscriber to that organisationwas the honest body that it used to be under the leadership of Albert Monk, it would not be pushing this economically crazy proposal at this point in the economic history of this country. 
I believe that at least my commercial would be honest, and that is more than the honourable senator could say about the sort of commercial that he has become rapt in. Of course  Senator O'Byrne  would make that sort of interjection. The whole second reading speech is nothing more than a commercial. The honourable senator's mind is completely engrossed with slogans such as 'It's Time' or something else. He does not like to listen to honesty.  His  brain cannot cope with it. That is his trouble. He should get out amongst the pensioners and find out how they feel about the Government's bragging and the charity that the Government is throwing at them today instead of giving them what is their right. All that we ask is that the type of independent tribunal that has been set up to determine politicians' salaries be set up to determine pensions. If that is done, the pensioners will not ask for any more than that. Perhaps then  Senator O'Byrne  will be more honest and will not sit there prattling about commercials. He should sit in silence and listen to the situation being put to him in honesty, instead of having the temerity to interject in a way that not one of his colleagues has been prepared to do up to date. 
Honourable senators should look at the statements contained in the second reading speech. It even sets out to prove that the cost indices which have shown increases really lag behind increases in average weekly earnings, and that even if the pension is not quite 25 per cent of average weekly earnings the pensioners are not as badly off as they used to be. When Government senators come in here and legal representatives of the unions go into the arbitration courts to argue the wage concept, they argue the other way; they say that wages are lagging behind. So honourable senators opposite can see how their commercial is inconsistent with the case that is put on their behalf elsewhere.  Senator O'Byrne  talks to me about commercials. I know whose minds are commercially oriented over and above a sense of justice. If the Labor Party were half the Labor Party that it used to be, it would not tolerate this sort of hypocrisy; it would be honest; it would get rid of the old political football and the footballers such as honourable senators opposite. 
The Labor Government says that it is better than other governments because it gives to the pensioners. It does not have anything to give. The increased revenue going into the coffers of the Treasury, which has been created by the inflation to which the Government itself has contributed, is three or four times as much as is being handed back to the pensioners. Why does not the Government give the pensioners an increase which is equivalent to the increased amount received from the taxpayers because of inflationary forces? The Government does not give them anything; it does not have anything; it is the taxpayers' money. 
The people out in the streets, whom the Government has forgotten and whom it is supposed to represent, are doing the giving, if anyone is giving at all. The people to whom the Government should be giving are those who have provided the opportunity for its members to sit in this chamber and who have created everything else in this country up to date. They are the generation that built it up to what it is today. They built it up on stable economies in which price levels shifted very little over periods of 10 years. In those days, if one bought a house for 1,000 Pounds, 10 years after purchase, it was still worth about 1,000 Pounds, with perhaps something off for depreciation. If one can buy a house today for $20,000, in 10 years time it will take 30,000 of the same dollar tokens to buy the same house, in spite of the fact that it is 10 years older. Yet Government senators pose as the people who know how to run a country. With that son of appreciation of what makes an economy tick they could not run the corner store, let alone a nation. So they should not boast about it. They should not try to pretend that they are better than they are, because they are not. 
This Government tried to counter the criticism that it must have expected because I have always made that criticism. I say to  Senator Carrick  who has just resumed his seat that it was not always the Labor Party that preached the gospel that it is wrong to pay married pensioners less than unmarried pensioners. Are they any different? Do married pensioners eat less? It is said that two can live more cheaply than one. We all know that that is not true. We all know the mental pressures on an old married couple. Perhaps one partner is ill. The expense of that illness alone can be crippling. Of course, when there are 2 people the chances of illness are doubled. When one partner is ill the other pensioner is really sacrificing a great portion of his income to help meet the added costs of the medical attention for his married partner. But honourable senators opposite say: 'Oh, no; invariably two can live more cheaply than one'. Apparently the payment of a pension is not theirs by right as individuals, because if a pensioner happens to be married the amount he receives is less than that received by a single pensioner. Of course, he should receive the same pension. Pensions should be paid on an individual basis, but this Government boasts that it is continuing the system of awarding differential pensions to married people. 
Yet this same Government is toying with the idea of altering the laws of this nation to allow 2 homosexuals to engage in a marriage ceremony and become a married couple. Is this not a strange philosophy? I have written to such people, who in my view are sick but are anxious that this should be part of our law, and reminded them that they might be sorry if it becomes part of our law because homosexuals grow old just the same as everybody else, and when they reach pensionable age they will find that as married pensioners they will receive less than they would have received had they remained single. But the Government is boasting of the fact that it is granting a differential pension increase to married couples. By doing so it is continuing to widen the gap. Because of inflationary forces the value of the money tokens which we are allocating to pensioners is decreasing, and any increase in pensions is merely trying to keep up with these inflationary forces rather than putting the pensioners in front. The Government is trying to retrieve the lost ground. 
So on the one hand, the Government's philosophy is: Let us be charitable in our thinking; never mind about how it may eat into the moral fibre of the nation; let us encourage those' people who have this enormous difficulty and let us grant to them the supreme honour of being able to marry, whether or not they are homosexual. Honourable senators opposite are advocating it in their policies, are they not? 
Of course you are. Then you come along here with this one and say: 'Once they are married, then of course when they become old aged pensioners we will be able to save some of the money that we allege is ours and which we are giving them'. After reading this document my heart bleeds for honourable senators on the Government benches. I see them walking around with their hands continually in their pockets, giving their own money to the age pensioners. They know very well that they have their hands in the poor old taxpayers' pocket all the time. They let his wages go up and then they swoop on him and take his money from him in the form of taxation. Then they pretend that it is their own money that they are giving away. They say: 'We give to the pensioners'. They could not raise enough between the lot of them to buy a Sydney steak. What are they talking about? They give the pensioner nothing. All they are doing is taking from them the pride and dignity that ought to be theirs by right. 
Why do not Government senators listen to what we have told them over the years and take this humiliating situation out of this political arena? Let them get it off the football ground and have it fixed by an independent tribunal and put onto their own Government or any other government the future responsibility to find the money tokens with which to give these people the justice they deserve. I renounce the idea of a differential rate between married and single pensioners. The Government says that of course two can live cheaper than one. It goes further than that and says: 'People who publish cartoons emphasise this point and that is most unfair to us because if two people were living together in a de facto relationship, their pension would be cut down'. Government senators boast of this. Would it be cut down in the case of the homosexuals of whom I was speaking? Could the Government prove its case if 2 males or 2 females pensioners were living in the same house and sharing the expenses of the house- two living cheaper than one? No, it is done only if 2 people have a marriage certificate. 
-Yes, I know that  Senator Georges  would want me to sit down. How Government senators squirm when one hits them where it hurts. The honourable senator is pleading with me now to shut up. He knows my reputation in politics. It may do for the weak and the defenceless to plead with me, but when the plea comes from politicians such as honourable senators opposite I enjoy it. They can crawl on their knees if they want to. They will get no mercy from me when they come here with this sort of baloney- this sort of malarkey- and claim that this is a policy. This is not a policy, it is an insult to the older people in the community which they should not have to suffer at their age. If Government senators continue to try to produce the phoney arguments that they have produced here they will inevitably make the stupid mistakes that they made when they tried to evaluate the situation between single arid married pensioners. 
The Government has got to the stage now of boasting, by saying: 'Look what we are doing now in terms of child endowment. We are going to make it possible to pay it to credit unions'. I have no doubt that the children will be delighted, and their mothers also, now that they know they can get it through a credit union. It will be only the same amount of money- the same amount of tokens which are worth half what they used to be worth. But they can get it in a different way: They can collect it through a credit union. They will be delighted when they read that that is the policy of this Government which is supposed to be in the interests of the ordinary people. There is no increase for the ordinary people at all. 
The rest of the document recognises the injustice to those whom the Government has singled out for some of its cold charity. It has proved the case for them- that they should get more- but it gives them nothing extra. All it does is give them something in a different way. It says: 'We are robbing you, but be pleased about it, because whilst we are robbing you, if you have a credit union account you will be able to pick it up there instead of picking it up at the bank'. 
The last Government was not good on these questions and my criticism of it was the same as it is of the present Government. But it did not come forward trying to justify its policy by a stupid argument like that of the present Government.  Senator Georges,  surely is not proud of that. I respect him as a gentlemen- and that is more that I can say for many of his colleagues. I hope that my saying that about him will not do him any political damage. I can understand why I am not popular with his Party: I know too much about it. I know where the bodies are buried, to start with. I say to  Senator Georges,  be careful. He is a little honest. Some day I might know where his tombstone too is located, if he is not a little more cautious and a little less honest than he is. 
The Democratic Labor Party's attitude to this Bill is what it has been to nearly all other pension Bills. The Government will not do justice to these people by making political footballs of them every time it drags their degradation- which it has created- into the Parliament to boost itself and its own political stocks. The Government will do it only when at last it is forced, as it will be, to take up another plank of the Democratic Labor Party policy and put these pensions in the hands of an independent tribunal to assess what they are worth. Let Government senators put this matter where they have put their own salaries and then they will get unqualified support from the DLP. Today they get that support only because they are giving the pensioners back a fraction of what they have already taken from them. That is bad enough- but when Government senators boast about it they will get from us what they have got today. 
-When this debate was interrupted I was conveying to the Senate the attitude of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to the legislation. It is very interesting to refer to that part of the speech of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  when introducing the legislation where he set out precisely what the legislation was proposed to do. He cited some instances of where this Authority could be used to protect Australia from the erosion of its resources by the investment of too much foreign capital, but he made some other very interesting statements which indicated that the Government was quite fixed in its idea that it would not only enter into this industry in terms of exploration and assistance for exploration in industries which had already been established and endeavour to establish new industries but also would seek to take over the industries already established. They are not the principles of the Democratic Labor Party and we could not in any circumstances see ourselves associated with a Bill that goes as far as this legislation. 
I had reached a stage in my address on the previous occasion that was virtually a preamble to the statement I have just made, but if my remarks have been misinterpreted as suggesting that the Democratic Labor Party may have some sympathy with the Bill, I point out to the Senate that certainly members of my Party have sympathy with the title of the Bill and with some of the principles that are supposed to be enunciated in it. But we have no sympathy with the measures contained in this legislation which seek to carry out some of the things with which we cannot agree. For instance, I refer to the limit to which foreign capital may be introduced for the development of some Australian industries. The Democratic Labor Party has always set its face very strongly against a preponderence of foreign capital although we have recognised that foreign capital is necessary to develop the enormous resources of this country. We have always held the view that foreign capital should not be allowed to dominate. But that is not the sole purpose of this Bill. There is some doubt whether that purpose would be achieved by this Bill. However, what could be achieved by it is completely opposed to the principles against which the Democratic Labor Party has set its face. I think those principles are generally known. We are not prepared to support this legislation. We will not support the motion for the second reading and will vote against it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If it is now established that  Senator Gair  had this appointment from 14 March, is it claimed that he is no longer a member of the Senate because he held an office of profit under the Crown? If that is so, does the Government propose to recover from  Senator Gair  the emoluments he wrongly drew as a member of this Senate? Also if that is correct, what does the Government propose to do in regard to section 46 of the Constitution, which provides that for every day on which a senator who is not capable of holding his seat in this chamber because he holds an office of profit under the Crown so sits he shall be liable to pay the sum of one hundred pounds to any person who sues for it in any court of competent jurisdiction? Will the Commonwealth sue for the amount over the 14 to 16 days involved to recoup $3,200 of the $60,000 bribe which it has paid? 
Will the Attorney-General inform the Senate of the method by which  Senator Gair  was made aware of  His Excellency  the Governor-General's approval of the Government's request for his assent to the appointment of  Senator Gair  as an ambassador? On what day was this done? By whom was it done? If it was not in writing, what was the authority of the person charged with conveying the verbal information to the senator? Were the same methods used to convey to  Senator Gair  the acceptance of him by the Irish Republic? 
-This matter, of course, has exercised the attention of this chamber for more than a week now. I, like everybody else, have been called upon to play some small part in the incidents that have led up to the catastrophe for the parliamentary system of government in this country which has emanated from the successful attempt to bribe away from the political loyalties of a lifetime a man who had a splendid political record but who, of course, was going through a phase of life through which all of us must go some day. We heard from  Senator O  'Byrne this afternoon an account of the precise methods that were used to corrupt a person who perhaps was no longer quite as capable as he once was of defending himself from this type of political chicanery. 
I am here to speak the truth, and I will speak it. Let me go through the incidents that led up to the position in which we find ourselves today. The story first broke in the Press last Tuesday morning, and I read about it in the newspapers. When we got to Canberra we met  Senator Gair  and talked to him. I asked him whether the story was to be believed. At that time it was completely unbelievable to me that he would take that attitude. He immediately informed us that the Press report was true; that he was contemplating acceptance of the position; indeed, that he felt the matter had gone beyond his control; and that he thought he was committed.  Senator Gair  was asked, not by me but by another member of our Caucus who can speak for himself, to reconsider the matter. 
That was  Senator Kane. Senator Gair  said that he did not think he could reconsider it, but he might. Asked when his term in the Senate would end, he said: 'Tomorrow I propose to hand in my resignation'. They were the circumstances and that was the truth of the matter up to that point of time. 
When the story broke, of course, the Government was gleeful. Statements were made in the other House and in this chamber, and the Government felt that it had pulled a shrewd and competent political trick. I suppose it could have been said, if one has that standard of morality in politics- I have never subscribed to it- that it was a smart or clever political trick. But when one plays politics on that basis, of course, one naturally attracts resistance, and apparently resistance occurred. The Government was outsmarted. I. believe that this chamber is more interested in what happened then' than in the circumstances of the purchasing, by the offer of an ambassadorship in Ireland, of the most hated enemy of the Labor Party. Those who hated him most set out to destroy him. Those are the circumstances we should be discussing, because  Senator Gair  or ex-Senator Gair, whichever he may be, is no longer important in relation to the responsibilities that go with what has happened in this Parliament.  Senator Gair  no longer is a significant factor in the arguments that are taking place because immediately the smart ones found that they were outsmarted they resorted to dishonesty and trickery and, it is alleged, lies in this Parliament in order to substantiate the situation. 
I want to trace the circumstances of  Senator Gair's  appointment, not as a man with a legal mind but as an ordinary member of the Australian community. The first claim that was made to prove that  Senator Gair  was no longer a senatorindeed, had not been for some weeks- was that he ceased to be a senator on 14 March when a letter over the signature of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs, who happens to be the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  was sent to the Governor-General informing him of the wishes of the Government in this matter and asking for his approval to proceed with the appointment. The appointment had yet to be made. According to the paper placed before us, the Government received that approval. On the basis of that approval it was suggested that  Senator Gair  was no longer a member of the Senate from a time which suited the Government. 
The Government made a hasty decision because it would be completely impossible to prove that a man had been appointed as ambassador to a country before that country had accepted the appointment. It would have been a breach of all the procedures established by all countries to appoint a person to an office such as this before he had actually been accepted by the country concerned. Of course, it is necessary to obtain the approval of the appropriate authority in one's own country before one can proceed to set in motion the necessary machinery for appointment. But who ever heard in any previous case- I hope that the Government tries to prove this in the High Court- of it being even possible to make such an appointment before acceptance had been received from the country to which the person involved was to be appointed. 
Now in this chamber the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has shifted ground. Although the learned legal opinion submitted by the Solicitor-General states that the appointment became effective on 14 March, the AttorneyGeneral now wants to make it 21 March because that is the day after approval was received from the country that was to receive the benefit of the services of Vincent Gair as Ambassador for Australia. That approval was received on 20 March. On 21 March a minute, again over the signature of the Acting Minister of State for Foreign Affairs,  Mr Whitlam,  was sent to  His Excellency  the Governor-General for his approval. The subject matter of that minute was: 'Appointment of  Senator the  Honourable Vincent Clair Gair . . .' So at that time the appointment was still the subject matter of a minute; it had not been accomplished, as was claimed originally, on 14 March. Of course, the fact of it being the subject matter of a minute does not constitute an appointment either, does it? Paragraph (iii) of that minute states: 
Such appointment commences on and from a date to be determined- 
It says not that it has been determined but that it is to be determined in the future; if it does not mean that, what does it mean?  by the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs. 
That is what the Prime Minister and Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs asked  His Excellency  the Governor-General to approve, and the Governor-General gave his approval. He approved nothing other than that 'such appointment commences on and from a date to be'- in the future- 'determined'. Then we come to the honest legal opinion. It is strange that the very learned gentleman who gave this legal opinion used the same verbiage in expressing the opinion that the appointment of  Senator Gair  as Ambassador to Ireland was approved, and actually  Senator Gair  was the Ambassador on 14 March. In giving his opinion the Solicitor-General said:   . . that the former  Senator held  an office of profit from the moment of his appointment . . . 
I repeat the words: 'from the moment of his appointment.' But the appointment had not commenced on 21 March; it was to commence on a date yet to be fixed. So how can  Senator Gair  have become an ambassador on 21 March when the legal opinion of the Solicitor-General is that he become Ambassador on 14 March? The legal opinion admits that he held an office of profit from the moment of his appointment. Yet the minute dated 21 March states that the appointment was to commence on a date to be fixed -in the future. 
As we all now know, the only suggestion that any date has ever been fixed came in an admission by the Minister for Foreign Affairs relating to the document that he has laid before the Parliament. Paragraph (ii) of the document sent to  His Excellency  on 2 1 March for approval contained all the subsidiary matters which go with the appointment, such as what it costs to get there, how much it costs to transport the furniture and the glassware, the cost of the insurance thereof and everything else; but it carefully omitted the date of commencement that had to be fixed. It has still to be fixed unless we can accept what the Attorney-General said here, that he considered that document to be the date determined. That is answered in Hansard because in an answer to  Senator Durack  there were 2 separate and definite statements from the Minister. What other construction can be placed upon it than that? That he was appointed at some previous date? Of course you cannot say that. 
But that is not the most serious thing. To make that stick, following the enormous pressure exerted by honourable senators by way of questioning to get at the truth of what had happened in this instance, a statement was made, not in this chamber but in another place, and for the first time, that  Senator Gair,  who was alleged by the Government to have been an ambassador for some 3 weeks and had come in here on 9 occasions and voted in divisions during that period, was told by the Attorney-General, who sits in this chamber, that he should not be here and that he should not vote. That statement was not made by the Attorney-General under pressure of question. It was first suggested in another place by the Prime Minister and later substantiated in this chamber by the Attorney-General who alleged that he did this. I want to read a statement made in Brisbane to a newspaper by  Senator Gair  on this very subject. I am not suggesting that the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General are liars. That has yet to be determined and it should be done by a royal commission because somebody has lied- either the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General or the Ambassador to Ireland. If the Ambassador to Ireland lied and the Prime Minister and the Attorney-General knew it, his appointment should have been withdrawn already. What inference can we draw from the fact that he is still tonight the Ambassador-designate to Ireland except that what he is reported to have said to this newspaper is correct. He is reported as having said: 

 Mr Gair denied that the AttorneyGeneral,  Senator Murphy,  had advised him not to take his place in the Senate. 
An unequivocal statement was made by the Attorney-General and the Prime Minister. This newspaper report continues: 
He rejected a statement by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  who said in Parliament that  Senator Gair  had sat in the Senate Chamber on Tuesday against the advice of  Senator Murphy. 
That is not correct' he said.  'Senator Murphy  saw me in my place and never said a word ... No one advised me not to take my place in the Senate. I went in automatically. It never occurred to me. That is the truth. ' 
I issue this challenge to the Government: If that statement is true, is it going to send to Ireland the man who made it? Is it going to find out whether he did or did not make that statement? Is it going to send this man to Ireland? If its Prime Minister told the truth and if its Attorney-General told the truth he must be telling a lie. Is that the sort of status that the Government wants Australia to have abroad? 
I challenge the Government that it dare not allow this matter to proceed beyond this point. A royal commission at least should be appointed to ascertain the truth. I have heard honourable senators on the Government side talking about Watergate and somebody bugging somebody's office. This is political trickery again, is it not? Is bugging any worse than buying a political opponent to gain a political advantage? Who cares? Not I, because I have not been involved in such things. Let honourable senators opposite answer and tell me which is the worst- bugging somebody's office or buying somebody they have hated for the last 18 years. Honourable senators opposite know full well the answer to that question. The whole of the Government of the United States of America today stands in doubt in the eyes of the world because of one question and one question alone and that is: Did those in high authority conspire to deceive the Congress? 
This matter we are dealing with also is a conspiracy but here we have deliberate and direct evidence of those in the Parliament who are involved but they are too cowardly now to defend their honour. This is involved in the statement made by the Ambassador-designate to Ireland who said that people lied in the House of Representatives and they lied in the Senate. Yet those people are still going to send the man who said that to Ireland. Somebody is frightened to establish the truth and therefore they are going to allow this country to be besmirched in the eyes of the world and never resolve where the lie is. The lie must be somewhere between the 3 people who made the statements on this question. 
It is because this Parliament is more precious to the people of this nation than any of the little people in here and any of the parties represented that the Democratic Labor Party will go to the people, whatever seems to be the obvious political consequences. We will go to the people and give them their opportunity. This Senate has been charged with a sacred trust and that is the right to recall parliaments and send them to the people, their true masters. We do not dismiss the Government in this chamber; we merely say: Go back to your masters, the people, and let them decide whether your actions of the last week will preserve democracy and good government in this country, or whether they will destroy the prestige of this House and the other place for all time.' For that reason we will have no hesitation when we come to vote on this motion. We will have no hesitation in regard to any of the other motions that come before this Senate and have to be decided not in the interests of politicians but in the interests of Parliament and the people. 
-The Bill before the Senate has been discussed before and it was not thought we would discuss it again. The introduction of it is purely a political gimmick because the Government wishes to discuss in an election campaign a myth of free medicine. The Government had no intention of re-introducing the Bill in this form. There is substantial evidence of that in the community. This is not surprising because the Bill in its present form was first introduced- as I said on a previous occasion- in circumstances that gave it no possible hope of acceptance by the skilled professions in the industry which is involved. The doctors were abused. Most immoderate language was used by the Minister in describing the doctors merely because they wanted to have their say and express their opinions on what this type of program would do to the quality of medical health services in this country. The National Standing Committee of Private Hospitals was placed in a similar category. Indeed there is evidence that the Government tried to seek better beginnings for any future ideas after the first Bill had been rejected by the Senate. But that was not the reason for the abandonment of the scheme. 
The Government had begun to see the sense of many of the arguments produced by the people whose hostility it had aroused. I refer to the skilled professions in the industry whose cooperation had to be obtained to make a success of any health service in this country. The original scheme had been completely unacceptable to that section of the community. It is not sufficient to produce a health scheme that is acceptable to the patients of this nation without having the cooperation of the skilled practitioners who provide the health services. What would happen if plumbers had to work to a certain system or standard and they did not agree with it? They would never get a building finished. So it is with the medical health services. 
If this Government is so conscientious about giving priorities to bricklayers, carpenters, plumbers, bootmakers or anyone else to express their points of view on circumstances in their industries which personally affect them, surely it should extend the same rights and privileges to the most highly intelligent members of our community, including members of the medical profession. Surely we do not regard them as charlatans who are merely trying to improve their own wealth and status at the expense of the people. People of that calibre are in a minority. People would never become doctors if they were not dedicated to the profession. I noticed this week that a doctor who was 44 years of age, who was dedicated to his profession and who had been one of the greatest sporting doctors in Victoria had died, at an age at which many doctors die. The average life of a doctor is the shortest in the community because he works under enormous concentration and persistent strain. 1 have heard politicians complaining this week of the circumstances under which we have been working because of this extraordinary period in politics. Doctors diagnose major complaints and are faced with the possibility of performing major surgery. How many hours sleep a night do they get? How often is their sleep interrupted by planning the intricacies of major surgery and operations which may take 4 or 5 hours? Absolute and complete concentration of the highest possible degree is required. The Minister charges the doctors with being charlatans. He could not do their job himself. Unless someone undergoes the extensive training to which doctors submit themselves and the years and years of discipline that are involved they could not operate on that scale. It would be well if all of us in the community remembered that. 
Plenty of proof is available that this Government was proposing to change the present Bill. I would like to draw the Senate's attention to a meeting of the National Standing Committee of Private Hospitals, which met in Melbourne on 27 March 1974. It is interesting to study the pattern of its previous meetings. All its previous meetings were held in Melbourne. In 1973 it met on 18 June, 9 May, 26 July and 21 November. It met about once every 3 months. It met for its scheduled meeting on 14 March 1974. It met again a little over a week later on 27 March at a special meeting called at the behest of the Government. Delegates were brought at great expense from all over Australia because the Government had requested the Committee to review a situation that, in spite of the open government pledged by the present Government, remains a mystery. 
I will outline what happened at the meeting. The Committee acceded to the Government's request for this meeting and the  Chairman  asked that consideration be given to the expenses incurred being paid by the Government because the Government had requested the delegates from all over Australia to be present. One of the Government officials indicated that the proposals submitted in writing for discussion were without prejudice on both sides. The proposals were then discussed together with pertinent questions asked by members of the National Standing Committee of the 2 government officials present. The government officials left the meeting at approximately 1 p.m. and indicated that they would return at 2.30 p.m. in order to obtain the decision of the Committee. Prior to departure one of the government officials indicated that the Minister would be prepared to meet the National Standing Committee the following day, Thursday 28 March, if such a meeting was necessary. Members of the Committee considered the proposals presented- by the Government and as a result of these discussions the meeting unanimously agreed: 
The initial impression is not favourable and we feel that we must return to our respective States to discuss the proposals freely in the context of the original Bill with our associations and their members. In the meantime we do not feel that a meeting with the Minister would serve any useful purpose. 
The 2 Government officials returned to the meeting at 2.45 p.m. The  Chairman  presented them with a written copy of the resolution and an explanation of the action taken. 
One of the two government officials then requested that the papers distributed that morning be returned and that the committee members disregard the matters raised as though they had never been placed before them. The papers distributed that morning . . . 
By the Government-  were then handed back to the the Government officials who then left the meeting. 
On 28 March this occurred, and now a couple of weeks later we have the Government bringing back the original Bill as though they had never attempted to amend it at all. This is with only one of the skilled bodies which is concerned with running the medical services of this country, the National Committee of Private Hospitals which met under those circumstances. I believe the Minister referred to this in a speech that he made today and suggested that the meeting on 27 March was merely a meeting of this Association that was already in progress. Yet the Committee had been specially called together only a fortnight after it had met. It usually meets every 3 months. Even the costs of conducting the meeting had been discussed. Yet the Minister went into the House with again this element of trickery and deceit of the Parliament and suggested that that meeting was the normal meeting conducted by this association. I turn from the question of whether this Bill was sincerely brought in by the Government to the question of whether it is a good Bill or not, whether it is any better than it was when it was brought in before. 
I notice in the Minister's second reading speech in the other place that he paid the Party to which I belong, the Democratic Labor Party, and the Bill I presented in this chamber a very great compliment because he spent a third of his speech on the introduction of his own Bill in discussing the DLP's Bill. He suggested, of course, that our Bill is no good. He said that to cover the 13 per cent- he claimed it was 17 per cent- of people not already covered would cost $ 180m. I challenged his figures. It will not cost that at all in our book. But let us accept what he says. He suggests that this is worse than the Government's Bill for that reason. But in the White Paper issued by the Government headed 'Public Hospitals: Estimated Contributions to the Operating Costs by the Australian Government and State Governments', he makes a comparison between the present private insurance scheme and the Government's health insurance scheme that we are debating. His figures show that it will cost the Government on the hospital side alone another $290m. Whose is the better scheme on a monetary basis? Certainly $80m of that would be saved by the States which would pay less. He claimed this of one factor of the medical service, the public hospitals estimated contributions and proved if we take his figures, that in this one aspect he is $30m over the Democratic Labor Party scheme even assuming that all the costs as stated by the Minister were correct; and they are not. 
It is simple to work out the estimated cost of the DLP's scheme. It means that the Commonwealth Government will pay for every pensioner, every unemployed person, every disadvantaged family and every new Australian who has not heard about the scheme a contribution to the present medical benefits scheme so that they will get an equal service to everybody else, a service which the Minister admits is satisfactory and of which he says the only reason for the change is the number of people eliminated under it. Let me turn to the number of people who are disadvantaged under the present scheme. There are a lot of people who do not come under it. In Queensland it is not necessary for everybody to come under the full benefits because, as we all know, residents of Queensland get free access to hospitals. There is no means test. So they do not have to insure themselves for that purpose. They are part of the percentage said to be not covered by the existing scheme but this does not mean that they are not covered by some scheme. Then there are the war widows, war pensioners, service personnel and that portion of the Queensland population entitled to free treatment in public hospitals. The total number not covered works out at fewer than half a million people in the whole of Australia- 338,900 people. This clearly indicates that the Government again is publishing figures that are designed to trick the people. 
I turn now to the problem of the quality of medical care. We know that there is a system in England which when it started off was to be very cheap. Today it is nearly bankrupting the English nation because of the availability of what was alleged to be free medicine. I want to quote from a discussion which took place apparently in a 'This Day Tonight' type of program. Whether that was its name I am not aware but I quote from documents prepared by the Australian Reference Service entitled 'New Zealand's National Health Scheme'. These are the sort of questions asked and answers obtained: 
Reporter: Another measure of the decline in the New Zealand scheme is the over-strained public hospital system. The vast base hospitals which dominate the city-scapes simply cost too much to be extended to meet demands. The result: for non-urgent surgery, the waiting list in some cases is up to three or four years- gall bladders, hernias, cartilages, varicose veins- anything troublesome but not vital has low priority. 
I am referring to the New Zealand situation. New Zealand in this respect is not nearly as well off as Australia which has not got this scheme yet. New Zealand has 7.2 beds for every thousand people while Australia with many more cheaper and less ambitious private hospitals has 10.8 beds, nearly half as many again. 
The swing to private insurance in New Zealand shows that it is necessary even on the costs that the Government estimates- and I will come to that in a moment- it will cost the average person for free medicine, for people to turn to private insurance as well to get a satisfactory quality of medical service. The reporter continued: 
The chronic bed shortage has meant a massive swing to private health insurance. Ten years ago, it was virtually unheard of in New Zealand. Now perhaps 15% of the population has opted for medical insurance- the only way of guaranteeing elective hospitalisation. 
A  Dr Cooper  was asked 2 questions and the report reads as follows. 
Reporter: This seems to be quite contradictory to the idea of a free medical scheme- how does this arise? 

 Dr Cooper The public hospital is not available, so I 've got to immediately ask the patient, 'Can you afford to go to a private surgeon, ' or has he got private medical insurance. 
Reporter: Take a case that doesn't need hospitalisationsay, for example, someone with a skin problem that you want to send to a skin specialist. Now, why can't . . . why don 't you like sending your patients to the specialists attached to the public hospitals? 

 Dr Cooper Well, if you go to the public hospital, he may be seen by a junior doctor who knows less than I do; if he is seen by a specialist, 

 Dr Cooper doubts whether he is thoroughly trained in the specialist area of skin complaints to diagnose or to treat properly-  a proper specialist, that man ... the specialist may be expected to see twenty or thirty people in a three-hour session, that means that he can spend about two minutes, or three minutes, or half a minute, on a patient, which is inadequate. 
If you cut corners in medicine, you make mistakes. The easiest corner to cut is the corner of taking a proper historyyou've got to listen to people if you're going to come to the right diagnosis- and I find that the skin specialist privately may spend up to half an hour,  ferretting  out information which is necessary to make the right diagnosis to give the right treatment. In public hospitals, there is one harassed specialist with a multitude waiting- the only thing that can happen to medical standards is that they fall. So unless a person is in real financial difficulties, I direct the lot into a private specialist's office. 
That is the practical way in which these sorts of schemes work out. This is not a rosy dream of what the Government would like alleged free medicine to be; these are the hard practical facts. We can study the scheme in England and we can read the information which is available in book after book. But we are all people and I am afraid that when something is free everyone tries to get more than his own pound of flesh. Actually nothing can ever be free. The Government's White Paper on The Australian Health Insurance Program completely explodes the theory of free medicine. Again I make reference to the White Paper which was issued by this Government to prove how cheap to the little man this scheme was. I emphasise to this chamber again that we have what no intelligent person could suspect to be anything but the art of trickery, in that the Government is trying to represent something to be exactly what it is not. If this were not so, why would any intelligent Government department produce a scale to show the levy payable at selected levels of taxable income, and the deductions for dependants, by starting the scale at $24 a week and concluding it at $45 a week? Who in the hell does it cover in our community today? This is the only table produced to show that for some people on those lowly incomes the scheme will cost them nil if they have dependants. 
The honourable senator ought to be crying with shame. I do not need a handkerchief but he does. This is his Government's scheme. It is his Government's trickydicky explanation to the people of this nation. But let us go through it with a much finer toothcomb. At $24 a week income a taxpayer with no deduction for dependants will pay $16.20 a year for free medicine. But, of course, when he has deductions for dependants of up to $100 a weekhis wife had better not be working because she cannot claim for dependants too- he does not pay anything at all. The scale goes down meticulously from $27 a week to $30 a week and the taxable income is increased by $200 a year to give a pattern of the Australian people. But that does not apply to any Australian people today. The table then goes up to $44 a week.  Mr President,  do you know what the Government does with this alleged intelligent table which is the only one to show the cost? The yearly taxable income jumps from $2,200 to $2,210 which is $10 a year extra; and the Government gives a table for those amounts. From the fellow on $40 a week the table goes up to the fellow on $44 a week. One can then pluck out the next 5 categories which go from $2,2 10 a year to $2,272 a year. Between any two of those amounts there is not a difference of a dollar a week. The difference in the 5 categories which the Government gives is $62 a year. On a weekly basis we are dealing with fractions of cents. In this table the Government shows that in relation to the extra $10- which is the difference between the taxable yearly income of $2,200 and $2,2 10- if one claims $ 100 for dependants the Government takes $5 out of the $ 10 which leaves one with $5. If one has the princely income of $2,272 which is where the table cuts out and which works out at about $45 a week, one is getting $62 a year income over the fellow who is paying nothing with a $100 claim for dependants, and out of that extra $62 a year income, the Government takes $30.67 for hospital and medical benefits. That is the Government's free medical scheme for the little man; and one has to have dependants to get that. If one does not have any dependants the difference is not nearly so marked. At $2,200 taxable income a year one already pays $29.70 a year and the amount goes up by only about $1. But when one has a claim of $100 for dependants on his taxable income, the amount goes up to $30.67. That is Labor looking after the little man! But we cannot find any little men on $45 a week. 
If this is what the Government is doing in relation to incomes of between $40 and $45 a week, what happens to the man who gets between $90 and $100 a week which is the average wage? Let us consider the man who has a claim of $100 a year for dependants. If, as applies in most households today, his wife happens to be working and, being intelligent Australians, the family claims on the husband 's salary for the dependants, then the wife can claim no dependants at all.  Her  payments start when she is on $24 a week, if she is prepared to work for that amount. The Government cops her for $ 1 6.20 a year. If she gets up to a more believable salary of $45 a week, although no woman works for that today- I only go this far because this is as far as the table goes- then the Government takes $30.67 a year off her because she has no dependants to claim as her husband is working too. So if both of them were receiving $45 a week and if they had children to enable them to claim $100 a year tax deduction, between them they would be paying almost $62 a year for the Government's free medical scheme, in spite of the fact that they have 2 children. 
Ninty-four dollars now. Well, I suggest that the honourable senator go to the Australian Democratic Labor program and he will find that people on that sort of income- if that were their total family income with 2 children- would pay nothing at all. Let us see which is the best scheme for the people. We are giving the Senate the facts. I notice that those who were most vociferous with interjections have disappeared. Honourable senators opposite cannot be proud of this alleged free medical scheme. Is it any wonder that the Labor Party was abandoning the scheme, not because the Senate rejected it but because the Labor Party went off- as it has on many things- without sufficient preparation of what it was doing. This is not a good scheme. It is a very bad one. It is a scheme which could shatter the Government. It could be an enormous financial burden to this nation and to its taxpayers, because whatever the Government at this time has computed to be a reasonable cost to expect from the scheme I warn the Government that the cost will double and treble within the first 5 years. 
People, because they are no better or worse than people always are, will get the idea that this is something for nothing or something for which they have already paid in their taxes and therefore, as a right, when little Johnnie falls over and scrapes his knee in the garden his mother, instead of doing home surgery as she has always done by putting antiseptic and perhaps a sticking plaster on his knee, will take him to the doctor. Of course there are thousands of little accidents like this every day. This is happening in England and in New Zealand. Those are the cases which form the long queues that many people who are genuinely ill look at with despair because they really need to see a doctor. They will be joined by the lonely and the depressed who feel that they have the right of the company of a doctor at any hour of the day or night. They will call him out. Doctors in England are complaining and screaming. They are leaving England because of it and because they feel that they have no rights at all. They are the slaves in modern England. People ring them up at all hours of the night. When they make a diagnosis it is that the people are lonely and terrified a little of the night. The people might have some of those pains which all of us who are getting on in years get from time to time. This is no reflection on them. They are human. They send for the doctor, not realising that with thousands of others doing it every night they are making it impossible for a competent and proper medical service to be conducted for the whole of the people. 
In my younger days, with great enthusiasm, I helped sponsor free schemes for workersworkers education societies. We would start a year with 200 people interested in a subject because it was free. Because it was free they did not value it. Within 3 months they would get sick of going out at night, and the 200 would have dwindled away to 5 or 6. Because it was free nobody valued it. We may think it is reprehensible, but it is human nature. That is what the Government is dealing with. I warn the Government, with its enthusiasm for schemes of this sort, to examine their practicality. Listen to the doctors, many of whom are refugees from a similar set of circumstances in other parts of the world and have come here to escape them. I appeal to the public not to fall for the myth that the scheme can possibly be a free medicine scheme. Do not accept that what the White Paper states is true. Forget the trickery of the tables which are supposed to represent the Australian people, because they are not extended into the areas that affect Australian income earners. They must have been put there for a purpose. What purpose can I read into it other than to trick the people by showing 7 times in some column at the end of a line of statistics that nobody will pay anything. Work it out. An income earner on $44 a week who has sufficient dependants to be able to claim $100 from his annual gross income is referred to. Is anyone on the Labor side prepared to say that it is even an intelligent thing to say that such a person - 
-They all fled. The facts destroy them. This White Paper is another tricky Dicky which is designed to deceive. The great tragedy of this Parliament today is that those things which are thought to be clever in order to get one's own way in politics are becoming the accepted standard. Even when the cleverness sometimes fails they are prepared to do things which have not been tolerated previously in this country. Previously, even in the little State of Tasmania, when somebody found that he had inadvertently given an untruthful answer to a question he immediately resigned his seat in Parliament. I suggest that if one looks at the records of this Parliament in the last few weeks one finds that there can be no other conclusion but that deliberate lies have been told to trick not only the people but now the Parliament. They are the things that are making honourable men stand up in this place and say the things that we say. I will not discuss the matter on this Bill because I might be out of order, but there will be another occasion. 
This Bill will go out because the mere circumstances of its re-introduction are tricky. The Government has been negotiating with people to amend and reconstruct a proposition which was analysed here and which we ultimately rejected. We sent it back to the Government. The Government realises that the criticisms were valid. It tried to meet those criticisms with changes and amendments. That is what Parliament is all about. That is why we have Oppositions. I heard in this chamber tonight a cry to  Senator Webster:  Where is your mandate?' Each senator has a mandate. It is not only governments which have mandates, all honourable senators are elected by a majority of the people when we are elected. With our ideas and our thoughts we are trusted to do, on behalf of the people of this nation, the best that our limited abilities enable us to do. We should do it with honour. We should at least do it a little better than we would expect of the rest of the community, of business ethics or of the usual political licence which we extend to each other perhaps on the hustings. But in the Senate the truth should surely be sacred. Surely we should not produce documents, as this document has been produced, in a deliberate attempt to deceive and not to disclose. After all, a White Paper is surely something which any person should be able to read to gain some information about the proposition to which it refers. The table to which I have referred defeats this purpose because it does not explain the scheme to the people concerned. But that was the purpose of the issuance of the document. 
We will reject this Bill again. It was not proper for it to have been brought back here so that it could be said on the hustings that this Government has a glorious free medicine scheme. It is not free. It is not a scheme of medical service to assist the little man. If it is, will the Government prove it to us by the production of statistics which at least apply to the lower income earners of this nation, not this mass of rubbish which the Government thought was suitable for the people of this nation but which, when analysed in the Parliament as it has to be, shows up the glaring weaknesses of the scheme? We will reject this Bill. We will fight it on the hustings, if that is the reason the Government has re-introduced it. We will tell the people that the tables which we will produce show what the scheme really costs. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen the newspaper reports of 1 April which disclosed that borrowing by Australian companies of fixed interest capital was at record levels? Were those levels recorded as being $434.2m for the December 1973 quarter as against $ 1 53.6m for the same quarter of 1 972? In view of those figures, does the Government still persist with the view that the vicious increase in interest rates will deter borrowing and assist in controlling inflation or does the Minister consider that the Australian Democratic Labor Party is right and that higher interest rates encourage the lender, expand credit and aggravate inflation? 
-The Australian Democratic Labor Party does. not associate itself with this proposition. This election is being carried out in a state of great emergency because the Opposition in this place willed it to be so. Are we to mess around with the dates that will be fixed for the election to suit the convenience of everybody who has political ambitions and who has seen fit to resign from a 
State Parliament before the decision was even arrived at here?  Senator Negus  did not desire an election and he desired to speak on Supply tonight but he was denied that request. Is everybody to wait perhaps an extra week because somebody somewhere in some party demands the right that it all should be held up because he is caught in a position like many other people are? If he had designs to nominate for Parliament and died, would the whole election be cancelled? It is prepostrous that honourable senators here on the Opposition benches who have brought about an election- whatever party we belong to- should now demand a postponement or something because of decisions of parties or individuals to resign to contest an election which may or may not have taken place. What if a person 's judgment had been wrong and there had been no double dissolution of this Parliament? Would we have had to have an election so that he could nominate? This is prepostrous. We do not propose to go along with the suggestion that has been made. We want to see the decision in which we played a part carried in the only way it can be carried and that is by passing this legislation. 
I have had many differences with the Government. 1 appreciate that this is a snap decision. The Government may not know all the things that we want to ask. I believe that it will be sufficiently honourable about this- although I have had great reason to question its honour in the last fortnight- that when it has the information it will follow the usual precedents established in this Parliament, will not seek to gain an unfair advantage but will let us know. I would not support the idea that it should run around Australia and find out what everybody has done. There may be somebody who may not resign from the State Parliament until tomorrow. Must we hold up the matter for them? Maybe he will not want to resign until the last minute. Will we have to hold it up again? We cannot accept that as a precept in making a decision on a question of this magnitude. We will support the proposition as it is. 
I will not keep the Senate for more than a few moments. As once again in my political career I have heard predictions of my political demise I feel it is obligatory upon me at least to thank you,  Mr President,  for your courtesy and your patience with me in particular. I do not suppose I have been a very easy member of Parliament for a  chairman  to deal with. I never have been. But we are all going to an election. We seek the will of the people, and I think we all accept what is happening in that spirit. To those who gaze into crystal balls and seem to find some satisfaction from what they consider to be the certain political demise of their opponents I say this: I would not be happy to know of the involuntary nonreturn of any member of this House. Knowing the facts of politics in this place, such members will probably be replaced by someone who thinks politically very much the same as they do. I have learnt to like most of my associates in this place whatever have been our political opinions, because we are all Australians seeking, I hope to serve Australia and to achieve those things which we think are good for Australia. As we are men- I think that we would not be here unless we were men of some capacity- we do not all think alike. But I do not think that we should learn to dislike one another personally for that. 
I issue a word of warning for those with crystal balls who predict my defeat. I have been listening to those predictions for the last 20 years, but somehow or other I am still around. Whilst some people may get some satisfaction out of these predictions let me say that they leave me with no depression at all. I am thoroughly confident. I offer my thanks to you,  Mr President,  and extend my good wishes to the rest of the Senate in the forthcoming election campaign. I will be back here to bid them welcome when the new Senate is gathering after the forthcoming election. I hope that my colleague, George Hannan, whose involuntary retirement also has been predicted, will be back here amongst us as well. 
