My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. I refer to his statement in the House last Thursday night that no prosecution for offences of treachery or treason can be mounted against  Mr Burchett  because there has been no formal declaration of war in Vietnam. I ask him whether, in view of the modern trend towards undeclared wars by subversion and terrorism - which is so obvious in Laos at the moment - the Crimes Act can be revised, possibly in consultation with the 
States, to ensure that such treachery can never be repeated and remain unpunished where Australians servicemen are involved? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the recent 24-hour stoppage by the Builders Labourers Union and the reported threatened strike for 1st April if negotiations with employers are unsuccessful. I ask the Minister whether there are any moves to settle this dispute through arbitration. I also ask whether there is any provision for the leaders of the union to test the feeling of the 40,000 members by secret ballot. Is it possible for such a damaging nation wide strike, affecting all sections of the community - not just the families directly involved - to be called without reference to the men themselves? 
Let me say at the beginning that this Bill does not close the door on Chowilla for all time. There may be some time in the future when Chowilla can be considered as a practical possibility and we must not end on the note that Chowilla is finished forever. That is not true. I am pleased to be able to support this legislation absolutely. I might say that the controversy over Chowilla has raged in South Australia for at (east  8  years and it is becoming something of an emotional issue. It has been used by all sorts of vested interests to pursue their own hobby horse. In particular, it is being used, as we have seen tonight, by the Labor members both here and in South Australia as a vehicle to gain government in that State without the slightest concern for the wellbeing of the people who live in South Australia and who leave the negotiations for adequate water supplies in the hands of their political representatives, hoping that they are men of integrity. 
I wish to pay a very warm tribute to the personal and political honesty of the Premier of South Australia and the South Australian Government. The Premier could have chosen to play on the emotional appeal of Chowilla just as Labor is doing now and the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  has just done.  His  Government originally sought this project as strenuously as Labor appears to do now but when the technical comparisons were released in January last year he had the integrity and the political courage to agree to look at the agreement again. What is more, he was able to achieve something out of what seemed like bad news for his State by successfully negotiating an increased water quota for South Australia. I would like to quote him. In January of last year he said: 
Our share of 1,500,000 acre feet will be guaranteed under conditions which have obtained in all years so far studied. If a series of droughts eventuate greater than known since 1905, South Australia will share on an equal basis with the other States. This is not only a great win for my Government but one of the most important pieces of news the South Australian public have heard. 
I repeat this statement so that there can be a permanent record of his comments in the Federal Hansard. 
I address a question to the Attorney-General. Was the Right Honourable  Dr H.  V. Evatt a member of the Australian Labor Party while sitting on and before leaving the bench to contest a seat in this Parliament on behalf of that Party? Did he later resign from the Labor Party before being appointed by a Labor government to the Supreme Court of an Australian State? 
Tomorrow we are to witness in many Australian cities the culmination of the activities of Australia's own fifth column movement - the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. In addition to the occupation of public places by its supporters another well known Communist controlled group of patriots - the Seamens Union of Australia - is to go on strike for 24 hours in support of the moratorium. We should not forget the riots that occurred last year when the United States Consulate-General was the target for extremist violence and 31 people were injured and 88 arrested. 
My advice to my fellow Australians is that they should ignore the Moratorium in the same way that I ignore the interjector. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for Wilmot has interjected 3 times in about H minutes. I suggest that he restrain himself. 
The Premier of South Australia, when asked to comment on the human trash littering the steps of Parliament House in Adelaide last Monday said: 'This is the worst form of pollution I have ever seen'. I think he went on to say something like this: 'I advise all South Australians to have a look at the pollution in front of Parliament House'. At question time today my colleague the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  asked the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  a question relating to the involvement of the trade union movement in the Moratorium. The Minister replied that in his view there was a positive diminution of trade union support and that it appeared now that only the maritime unions were supporting it. This is significant, because as all honourable members know the maritime unions without exception are Communist unions. The Minister went on to say that the main additional support for the Moratorium seems to be coming from Australian Labor Party voters whose purpose is to attack democracy. He described them very adequately, I think, as political bikies packraping democracy. 1 would describe the Moratorium as the most blatant CommunistAustralian Labor Party unity ticket ever conceived. Of course this so called peace movement is a creature of the Communists. 1 can never understand why Opposition members knowing of the Communist involvement, are marching shoulder to shoulder with Communists, wearing their Moratorium ribbons so proudly - even in this place, as they are today - and shouting Fascist' or 'Mccarthyite' at the faintest suggestion of Communist infection. 
Tomorrow's Moratorium programme in South Australia includes public speeches by the State Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Don  Dunstan, in spite of Labor Party rules but in line with the new Australian Labor Party submissiveness. He will be speaking on the same platform as  Mrs Freda  Brown, who claims to have visited North Vietnam recently and who is  president  of the Union of Australian Women and a publicly declared ticket holding member of the Communist Party. The Moratorium Steering Committee in Queensland for example, is heavily loaded with Communists. What more obvious unity ticket is there than this Red Moratorium committee? 
It may be worth mentioning some of the names, so that they will appear in Hansard. The  chairman  in Queensland is  Mr Rod  White,  president  of the Queensland Peace Committee. Of course we all know that the term 'Peace Committee' really means peaceful submission. The joint secretaries include  Mr Joe  Harris, a card carrying member of the Communist Party of Australia, and  Mr Hugh  Hamilton, a member of the Communist Party. Two of the committee members are  Mr Jack  Sherrington and  Mr Phil  O'Brien, who is also vice-president of the Queensland Peace Committee - the vehicle used as a front for this fifth column peace movement, the Association for International Co-operation and Disarmament, lt is laced with Communists. Its name really means disarmament of the allies. Then there is  Mr W.  E. Gollan, a member of the national executive of the Communist Party of Australia and a delegate to the Peace Council in Khartoum; E. Boatswain, who organised the secondary schools march in Canberra last year or the year before; and A. Outhred, a former secretary of the Sydney University Labor Club and a candidate for election to the Senate of the University. 
All this information is publically available and 1 am glad the honourable member for Calare  (Mr acknowledging it. Then there is Robert Gould, our old friend the proprietor of the Third World Bookshop who describes himself as more to the left than the Communists. I. think he calls himself a Trotskyist. As the Minister said, there are many varieties these days, not to mention the undercover and indistinguishable Communists better described as revolutionary Marxists and disguised in all sorts of ways from professors to housewives. 
I wonder whether the honourable member who has interjected and other members such as the honourable members for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  Kingston  (Dr Gun),  Sturt  (Mr Foster),  Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  St George  (Mr Morrison)  and Wills  (Mr Bryant),  who wear their Moratorium ribbons, insult their intelligence by ignoring these facts; or are they haunted by the nagging thought that the Communists are very close to controlling the majority of the important trade unions, and therefore their Australian Labor Party endorsement? AH these honourable members wear their Moratorium ribbons and make predictable Socialist speeches. The honourable member for Adelaide is not present in the chamber at the moment but he should be worrying about having to rely on Marxism for a political living because he is the most active capitalist of us all. [Quorum formed]. 
The people of Australia should realise that the device of calling a quorum has just been used by the Opposition merely to silence me and anybody else who is prepared to draw attention to the way in which the Communist Party controls the people on the Opposition side of the chamber. I ask the honourable member who called for a quorum - I think it was the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  - a very simple question: Does he want the North Vietnamese to win? The Labor Party has called for a withdrawal from Vietnam, the abandonment of national service, and the betrayal of Laos, Cambodia, Thailand and other South East Asian countries. Every time Hanoi hears such calls North Vietnamese aggression is encouraged and the war actually is lengthened. In the few moments left to me I want to quote what was said in April 1958 by  Mr Harold  Holt: 
What Australia needs is what the Communists themselves are preaching in their own objectives, that is, a united front - not a united front for communism, but a united political front against communism. How can we in this country hope to get a united political front against communism when we have the kind of leadership, and the kind of support behind that leadership, that we find in honourable gentlemen on the opposite side of the House? 
Those words are equally true today. I deplore the tactics of the Australian Labor Party. I deplore its involvement in the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign. I find it very hard to be associated with members of the Opposition in any other place. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Navy. In view of the increasing activity of foreign owned vessels of various types operating in Australian waters and the possibility that the Navy will be called upon to pursue such vessels al short notice, is there legal provision for such pursuit outside Australian territorial waters? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has his attention been drawn to the highly satisfactory migration and employment statistics just released in South Australia? What do these figures reveal when compared with the same period in 1967? Is there justification for the assertion by the Premier of South Australia that his Government's policies have helped to return South Australia to the level of prosperity enjoyed under the previous Liberal Government? 
I was pleased to hear the Opposition state that it supported the Port Augusta to Whyalla Railway Bill. 1 am pleased to support it also. I know that I speak for all honourable members on this side of the House, particularly those representing South Australian electorates, when I say that we are glad to see this action taken at last. This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament in respect of an agreement between the Commonwealth Government and the South Australian Government to enable the construction, by the Commonwealth, of a new standard gauge railway between Port Augusta and Whyalla. 
The original negotiations between the 2 governments were resolved on the initiative of the then Premier of South Australia,  Sir Thomas  Playford. I would like to see  Sir Thomas  receive due credit for his work in this regard because he successfully negotiated with the Commonwealth the standardisation agreement of 1949. South Australia was the only State to sign that agreement. 
The result has been that South Australia has received substantial financial assistance - more than any other State - from the Commonwealth, first towards the TransAustralian Railway and secondly for the standard gauge line from Port Pirie to Broken Hill. This will be the third standard gauge line construction to be financed by the Commonwealth. Discussions are under way now to enable a link to be inaugurated from Tarcoola, on the trans-continental line, to Alice Springs. In addition, there is the standard gauge line from Port Augusta to Marree which links with the narrow gauge Central Australia Railway to Alice Springs. 
Apart from the obvious need for the Australian States to establish a Federal government responsible for defence, external affairs, immigration and other matters, in which Commonwealth influence is becoming progressively greater, I believe that few problems could have influenced the founders of federation more than the hotchpotch of railway systems of that time, with various gauges in various States. It seems to mc that few things, even today, are retarding our national development more than this particular problem. 
The general principle underlying thu distribution of Commonwealth assistance to State budgets is to enable each State to provide government services at a standard broadly similar to the standards in the other States, provided that the State makes similar efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. Thus the wealthier States of Victoria and New South Wales receive lower amounts per head of population because, with higher levels of income, they have a greater capacity to raise revenue from their own residents and because they usually can achieve a similar standard of government services with lower per head expenditures than the other States. In spite of South Australia's enormous area and relatively small population - it respresents aabout 9% of Australia's total population - from its own resources and at its own initiative it has succeeded in establishing a very satisfactory internal railway system. I take this opportunity of impressing on the Government, through the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  the serious disadvantage suffered by South Australia compared to those State now linked together by the standard gauge railway sys tem. Traditionally, South Australia always has been a low cost State. It has survived because the cost of producing goods and transporting them to other States has often been lower that the costs in those States. 
Past Governments, particularly those under  Sir Thomas  Playford and other Liberal leaders, have been able to achieve a comparatively peaceful industrial situation and to supply industry with adequate services at cheaper cost than has been the case in other States. For example, South Australia has such organisations as the highly successful Electricity Trust which supplies power at very low rates, and a more than adequate flow of water through the pipeline system from the River Murray, a scheme criticised very strongly when first introduced by  Sir Thomas  Playford. Events have proved that both those projects were the fulfilment of more than forward looking for South Australia. 
Unfortunately, however, South Australian industry is now seriously disadvantaged in regard to the transport of manufactured goods to markets in the eastern States. All South Australians, irrespective of their political affiliations, warmly welcome the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  of the construction of the fourth line which is to connect Adelaide to Port Pirie. This line should be initiated very soon and it will place South Australian industry on at least an equal footing with competitors in other States. 
There has been criticism of the decision to proceed with the Port Pirie to Whyalla link before the Adelaide to Port Pirie link but it must be remembered that when the original discussions took place it was uneconomic to proceed with the Whyalla link. The position has now changed. Obviously the decision by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to transport steel to South Australia by road and rail instead of by sea has made the whole project economically possible. There will in future be a very great increase in the freight carried. Port Augusta and Whyalla will become major industrial complexes and the construction of the standard gauge railway link is absolutely essential. It is also highly desirable from a social point of view. It is expected that apart from the large amount of freight to be carried between the 2 cities, a modern passenger service will be established using Budd rail cars. This will be of particular benefit to people in Whyalla. 
The Government has paid special attention to level crossings. As a result of negotiations with South Austraiian authorities, several important safety factors will be included in this project. There will be a road overpass approximately 5 miles south of Port Augusta and the South Australian Highways Department has agreed to divert the Port August-Whyalla road so that traffic can use it. The other level crossings at Lincoln Gap and Point Lowly will be protected by flashing lights. Honourable members on both sides of the House obviously strongly support this Bill. The criticism that it should have been introduced many years ago is not valid in view of the economic position at that time. 
In a recent address the Attorney-General indicated that he has been considering an alteration to the Jaw relating to homosexuality. How does the honourable gentleman measure public opinion? Does he believe that recent Press publicity supporting a liberalisation of the law relating to homosexuality represents the view of the general public? What is the AttorneyGeneral's present attitude? Has he discussed this matter with the Government? 
There were very many inaccuracies in the speech made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr McIvor)  on this Bill. Unfortunately I do not have the time to deal with all of them but perhaps I might mention the one with which he commenced his speech. In referring to the second read- ing speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  the honourable member said that voluntary bodies arc trying to help the State governments to discharge their obligations. I think that this is an unfortunate criticism of the voluntary system as we know it. I inform the honour-, able member that many of these organisations arc established only on the initiative of people, not governments, and exist only through the work of volunteers. There is such an organisation in South Australia which I  will deal with in a moment. That organisation has been in operation for nearly 70 years and for 50 of those years it received no government  support whatsoever. The honourable member for Gellibrand mentioned a whole series of activities that he felt should be covered in this type of legislation. He said that free medicines should be supplied, that salaries should be paid, that kindergartens, creches, and schools should be paid for, that there should be special teacher courses and that more teachers should be made available. The position is that this Bill does not attempt to cover all of those situations and in any case they are the responsibility of the State governments. The Commonwealth Government does not wish to intrude unnecessarily into the fields of education and health. 1 feel that ] must take the honourable member to task on one point on which he was completely inaccurate. He said that there was no provision made in this Bill   for  spastics, autistics or the blind. In fact he said that the Bill will do nothing for them, and that statement is patently untrue. On the very first page of the second reading speech of the Minister those disabilities are referred to, and in any case the Bill provides that 'handicapped children' includes physically handicapped or mentally handicapped. 
It says handicapped children, physically or mentally. If someone has an autistic child- 
Of course it is. We are not dealing with all the other big brother requirements that you want. 
I ask the Minister for the Navy a question supplementary to an earlier question concerning the apprehension of foreign owned vessels committing offences in waters contiguous to the Australian coast. What instructions have been given to the Navy in such circumstances? What law enforcement agency can take action if the offence is a breach of a State law? 
I ask the Minister for Defence: What arrangements have been made for the projected withdrawal of the 8th Battalion from Vietnam and the training of Vietnamese troops to replace this Battalion? 
I think it is a matter for the very greatest regret that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  should speak in the way he did about former Governors-General of this country. I am thinking in particular of Field-Marshal Lord Slim, a soldier with one of the greatest war records of anyone. The other former Governor-General is  Sir William  McKell who I must say came from the same sort of political background as does the honourable member for Kalgoorlie. I think it is in very poor taste for anyone in this House to criticise any GovernorGeneral, whatever his background, for the receipt of a pension. I should say that the honourable member does not speak for the million pensioners in this country. He speaks for the bums in this country. The whole of the honourable member's speech was, in my view, a regurgitation of the tired old Socialist philosophies. It was an expression of the class consciousness that we listened to last night in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER &lt;Mr Lucock)Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
1 was not calling the pensioners in the honourable gentleman's area bums. I was calling people who talk like the honourable member bums. 
I suggest that the honourable member for Kalgoorlie should travel around the world a bit. If he can show me another country that is better to live in than this counry. no matter what one's level of income, [ will go and live there. This is the best country in the world. I would like to return to the Socialist philosophies expressed by the Leader of the Opposition last night and to make the point that he spoke for 65 minutes. 
It was heavy going, I must agree. What was important was not what he said but what he did not say. Let us look at some of the things he did not mention. I should like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  who followed the Leader of the Opposition in the debate. In my view, the honourable member's rebuttal was the best speech on matters of economic policy that I have heard since I have been in this Parliament. I thought he dealt with the Leader of the Opposition extremely well. I should also like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  who preceded me in the debate and who dealt in some depth with the upheavals in the industrial situation in Australia today. I shall run. out of time if I deal at too great length with what the Leader of the Opposition said. I am concerned with what he did not say, and in particular with what he did not say about defence and external affairs. It seems to me that these matters of the defence of this country and our relationship with other countries are at least important, if not pre-eminent. 
In the whole of his 65 minutes the Leader of the Opposition dealt with defence for 1 minute and dealt with external aid not at all. He did not say a single word about it. I am sure that some of my very capable colleagues who will follow me in this debate will explain many other deficiencies in the Leader of the Opposition's speech, but I am concerned with the questions of defence and external affairs. I refer honourable members to pages 5 and 12 of the Budget Speech where they will see that Australia will spend about S2,000m on defence and external aid, which are things that T consider important but which the Leader of the Opposition does not consider important enough to give moto than 1 minute of his time. 
I timed it carefully. If there is an area of dispute here 1 am sure we can settle it later. 
I am sure that the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  is a great supporter of arbitration. I wish that honourable members opposite would support arbitration. I want to talk about defence and external affairs because 1 consider these matters to be important. 
I cannot but notice that the honourable member is wearing one of those Moratorium badges. 
1 am interested to hear that the Opposition Whip, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  is proud to wear a Moratorium badge. I suppose now he will say that the Moratorium movement is respectable because it is going to be controlled by the Australian Labor Party, and that is his reason for his wearing a Moratorium badge. I would like to tell the House what happened in Adelaide in this connection last month. A Moratorium meeting was held and the ALP claimed to have taken over the movement and made it respectable. A list of names was issued to the Press. One of the names included was that of the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun),  who is not in the chamber tonight. Eight names were issued to the Press, but I happen to know that 10 people were selected to run the Moratorium Campaign in South Australia. lt is worth mentioning, if it is not going to disturb the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  too much because I am sure that he knows these gentlemen, that the two people whose names were not published in the Adelaide newspaper were both ticket holding Communists. 
Is the honourable member interested to know the names of the ticket holding Communists? I will be happy to supply them. They were  Mr Hal  Alexander, who is on the national executive of the Communist Party, and  Mrs Beryl  Miller, who is a card carrying Communist. Either the Labor Party in South Australia was deceitful in not releasing all the names to the Press or the Press was deceitful in not publishing them. 
The Government has been criticised for an alleged lack of defence planning. This is the point I was anxious to spend some time talking about tonight. It is important for the Australian people to recognise the difficulty and Janger in attempting to make projections very far into the future. We can make fairly accurate short term plans, but in these times of rapid technological advances the attitudes and achievements of our friends and enemies can themselves change. Part of our defence planning has to include efforts to reach mutual understanding with like-minded neighbours. I believe that our past diplomatic patience and reliability in times of severe trouble have succeeded in establishing Australia's creditability with the nations of south east and south west Asia. Who could have guessed, when Australia was ordering the Fill, aircraft and was taking a look over her shoulder at the possibility of confrontation with Indonesia under Sukarno, that we would be on the most friendly terms with an anti-communist Indonesia and a pro-Australian Indonesia about the time of delivery - if we can assume that delivery would have been this year. At the moment it is impossible to guess what the government will be like in Peking in 10 years time. By then mainland China could well have a nuclear capacity to destroy the world. I am quite sure that by then she will have the capacity to destroy all of south east Asia. The possibility, remote as it seems now, is that the Chinese people may reject the tyranny of life under Mao Tse Tung or whoever comes after him. All we can do in the meantime is to try to move closer to other countries who, with us. live with the menace of Communist Chinese aggression. I put it to the House and to the Commonwealth that Australia must have the trust and co-operation of friendly neighbours. We cannot have worthwhile defence without worthwhile diplomacy. 
1 intend to deal with that in a moment. It is what they call a crash defence policy and what the Prime Minister  (Mr Garton)  has described rather more accurately as a crash non-defence policy. We cannot hope to exercise by ourselves a proper surveillance over our tremendous coastline and adjacent oceans. Even if the United States of America continues with the Nixon doctrine of helping those who help themselves, I believe that we must expand and continue to modernise our existing 3 Services in co-operation with our smaller allies. I strongly support Australia's involvement first of all in Korea, then in Malaysia and now in Vietnam. Our contribution, if not enormous, is significant because it demonstrates a willingness to join in resisting a common enemy when one of our friends is in trouble. This spirit of comradeship was supposed to have been typically Australian. It seems to be fashionable to 'knock' that spirit these days. I believe it still exists. 
I accept and go along with the interjection. This is perfectly true. 
I do not care what anyone says, even the young man who is screaming at the moment and who is probably eligible for national service, if the Government introduced universal national service, say at 18 or at whatever age the honourable member is who interjects, for I year and provided for service in the Navy and the Air Force as well as the Army we could finance it as a nation, and we would be a stronger and better nation for it. This is my personal view. It is a matter of very great regret that we have not supported the Cambodians more actively and more positively. In my view if it was proper and moral for us to go into Vietnam it is very much more proper and more moral for us to go into Cambodia, and I mean with troops as well as money. Some honourable member interjected and asked why 1 did not go into Cambodia or Vietnam. I have been in both places. 
 I intend to say something about Africa in a moment. I want to say how improper T thought it was and, in fact, humiliating to hear the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition when he returned from his latest world tour, first class. He advocates not only an isolationist policy, which 1 recognise is the policy of his Party for Australia, and the abandonment of our allies, but he advocates that Australia should become what amounts to the munitions factory of South East Asia. According to the Leader of the Opposition Australia has to get things into perspective. If he were running things he would supply, according to himself, Malaysia, India and Singapore with arms but not the troops to use them. Presumably Thailand, Laos, Cambodia and the other friendly nations in the region have been dominoed already - and I say that in every sense of the word. The best they can hope for is pious words. We all remember the so-called crash defence policy outlined by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  when he spoke to the Fabian Society in Melbourne last year. Of course, that is a society of great Australian patriots: forward looking and dedicated to serve! Labor and the Fabians still persist in the advocacy of this doctrinaire Socialist policy. They believe in such things as a fixed percentage of the gross national product being spent on defence and aid. Honourable members opposite do not seem to have any regard for the requirements of our neighbours or the need for their good will, lt is frightening to consider the damage that statements of the Leader of the Opposition must be doing to Australia's reputation in the countries mentioned and other countries in the area. The difference between the Opposition and the Government is that wc have no difficulty in recognising the enemy. 
 I am glad,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you have identified the electorate of the honourable member who interjects. I have not seen him in the House before. We recognise aggressive international Communism as the real threat to world peace and we believe the Communists when they tell us that they believe in world domination. The Labor Party, and the honourable member for Blaxland, hope that the danger may go away. Perhaps if we turn our backs on the menace it will even disappear. Honourable members on this side of the House believe  -  I do anyway - that we must resist forthrightly and without equivocation, and so far as we possibly can we should help others in the same position. 
The other point I wish to make is that the Australian people must recognise the right of all nations to put their own selfinterest first. We should not take for granted that our great partners in the ANZUS treaty will automatically rush to our aid whenever we are in trouble. The British have demonstrated their belief in the doctrine of national self-interest and we would be worse than foolish to expect that the interests of America and Australia's self-interest will always coincide. I would have no doubt that in the unthinkable event of the Labor Party forming a federal government - and my flesh crawls at the thought - with its present isolationist policies, Australia would immediately forfeit the support of our American allies. It would not be in America's self-interest to defend a country which, although capable of making a worthwhile contribution to its own defence, was too selfish, too cowardly or too disinterested to undertake such obligations. For these reasons I urge the Government to examine in Australia's self-interest the possibility of negotiating mutual defence arrangements with those of our neighbours who have not yet succumbed to the onslaught of Communism. In particular we should be negotiating with those friendly non-Communist nations who share with us the periphery of the Indian Ocean - South Africa placed strategically at the entrance and Indonesia between us and Asia. Because of the limitation of time I shall not say any more about Indonesia. However I shall refer to South Africa because it is of great importance to us to consider our position in relation to South Africa. The Leader of the Opposition calls it Southern Africa, and continues to so call it in his unwarranted attacks on the other friendly countries which share with us a frontage to the Indian Ocean, lt appals me that the leader of the alternative government in this country continues to demean his position and his Party by attacking the South African governments on the basis of their domestic policies. 
Not at all. He is not the only one, and more the pity. Simply to have visited South Africa or Rhodesia is sufficient to be labelled racist. By the same pro -ess I suppose that any of us could label the Leader of the Opposition as a Communist simply because he has been to 
Russia. This would be ridiculous, as we all know. Racial discrimination is no more evident in those countries than in most others. 
Critics should go there, and especially the honourable member for Sydney, and try to understand their problems instead of standing back criticising them in smug self-satisfaction and ignorance, unwarranted when we consider the history of our Australian Aboriginals. Racial tension is not confined solely to the problems of black people and white people. 
I wish the honourable member for Sydney would listen and learn. I doubt whether there is a country in the world - black, white or Asian - where racial discrimisation is non-existent. As often as not it is black against black or black against Asian or vice versa. We have only to consider the hatred which exists between many of the African nations - the sufferings of the Arabs in Tanzania; the Ibos in Nigeria; the position of 50,000 Indians in Kenya, all of them with British passports - so do not talk to me about British colonialism - the untouchables in India; and the Muslims in the Sudan, to name a few examples.  Mr Jacob  Malik, a name not unknown to honourable members opposite, brands these racist Fascist regimes as a threat to world peace. This is well received in the United Nations General Assembly where he also brands Australia in similar terms for its alleged actions in Papua and New Guinea. What about the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, the Chinese conquest - not invasion - of Tibet, the actions of North Vietnam in Cambodia in relation to which we have just had a delegation? These are only a few of the recent so-called acts of liberation which seem to have passed from public debate as a result of effective Communist propaganda. 
South Africa has invaded no-one. She has no territorial aims. On the contrary, South Africa is following a domestic policy of divestment of territory. South Africa should be given some credit for the social improvements she is trying so hard to achieve. Those who manipulate public opinion against South Africa render a great disservice to what is left of the free world. 
But whatever South Africa's domestic policies are. I claim that it is in Australia's self interest to foster closer relations with her. There is clear evidence of both Soviet and Chinese Communist penetration in Africa, the Middle East, the Suez Canal zone as well as strategic Indian Ocean points such as Socotra, Mauritius and Zanzibar. The Cape route is vital not only to Western Europe but also to all countries east of Suez, and few countries are further east of Suez than we are. 
Those Australians who actively campaign against the non-Communist countries of southern Africa are making a positive contribution towards the Communist goal of world domination. The Communist world does not give a damn for the suffering of humans, whatever the colour of their skin. The Communists are shrewd enough to recognise the appeal of racial discrimination as an emotional catch-cry. lt is only the Communist world which can profit by the destruction of a strongly anti-Communist southern Africa. That is the reason for the establishment of the anti-apartheid movement which in reality is an anti-South Africa movement. The anti-apartheid organisation is purely a Communist front. 
 I will be happy to take an encore because I might run out of time. As I was saying, the anti-apartheid organisation is purely a Communist front formed in London on the initiative of a group of activists who operate in the same way as do Communist manipulated peace fronts in Australia. There are at least 9 British or African card carrying Communists on the committee of this organisation which has direct links with such revolutionary and violent organisations as the Pan African organisation and the African National Congress. Both of those groups are banned in South Africa because of proven acts of terrorism and murder. Both have links with the Defence and Aid Fund which is the international agency strongly supported by the Leader of the Opposition. I can only assume that he has no knowledge of the Communist organisers who manipulate these movements. 
His ignorance is vast but in this field it is tremendous. How else could he, the Leader of the Opposition, lend his support and patronage to a fund set up to defend terrorists and guerillas when they are captured? They are not men charged with crimes based on the colour of their skin. 
I hope that the Christian gentleman who has just interjected will let that sink in. 
 I am speaking the unvarnished truth and I live for the day when people with minds as narrow as that of the honourable member will go to that country to find out the truth for themselves. 
The Minister said that the honourable gentleman is a sponge but far too wet. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! 1 suggest that the Minister for the Navy cease assisting the honourable member for Boothby. 
.1 was saying that these men are not charged with crimes based on the colour of their skin. Some of them are white. They are not victims of racial discrimination. They are violent men intent on seizing power by acts of terrorism on their own countrymen. I should like to see our Government encourage the British in their negotiations with South Africa on the Simonstown Agreement. The ridiculous arms embargo placed on South Africa by the British Socialist Government is a serious breach of that Agreement and of direct concern to Australia and other countries dependent on the Cape route for trade and communications. It is ludicrous to assert that such arms may be used against the Bantu people. Tt is obvious that no-one on the other side has been there so I will say that the Bantu people are the black African people. South Africa produces most of her own weapons anyway and it is difficult to imagine maritime weapons being used on land. I suppose  Mr Harold  Wilson wanted us to picture a situation in which submarines would be travelling up the Zambesi River. 
You look like Alf Garnett with long sideburns, and sawn off at the knees I might add. I do not think anyone in Britain knows more about British politics than does Alf Garnett. I think he made a very good contribution to the recent election campaign. I also enjoyed his programme on television although I could not get used to the language. Before that interruption I was referring to  Mr Harold  Wilson and his misunderstanding of the use of armaments and the difference between maritime and land armaments. 1 cannot think of a situation in which one could drop a torpedo on Lesotho alongside Johannesburg. When it is all boiled down, that is really what he was saying. 1 suspect that the reported statements of some of the leaders of African countries are largely for home consumption. There is much more communication and cooperation between black and white African countries than the world ever hears about. Each African leader must act according to the doctrine of national self interest, which is what I believe we should do. In my view many of the African countries, both within the Commonwealth and without, have problems which are similar to our own and to those of South Africa. We have the mutual problem of a common enemy operating sometimes with open aggression, sometimes by subversion and political blackmail. None of us profits by attacking the genuinely peaceful countries of southern Africa. If all of this makes me a racist, I am afraid you will have to class me as a racist. 
What I admire about these countries is the way in which they have moved by legislative action to control the subversive activities of Communists, people like Wilfred Burchett. It is to our eternal shame as a country that a person like Wilfred Burchett could move around the world and work on battlefields in Korea and in Vietnam in opposition to Australian troops and come back to this country and be feted as if he were a hero. I respect and admire the southern African countries for their legislative action to control such subversive activities. Those countries are under direct threat. In Rhodesia every day of the week they are subject to incursions from over the Zambesi. The guerillas, most of them not even Rhodesian Africans, are trained in places like Cuba, Zambia, Peking - all the Communist countries - and the weapons that they are using- 
I. have been to this country and seen with my own eyes, so I am not saying something that other people have told me. The guerillas are trained in Communist countries. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 direct my question to the Minister for the Navy. What progress has been made in the development of naval facilities at Cockburn Sound in Western Australia? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Services. The Minister will remember describing this year as one of consolidation for social benefits at a high level. In view of the increasing inflationary pressures which affect people on fixed incomes before all others, particularly the aged and widows with dependent children, will the Minister give consideration to an urgent re-examination of, the pension levels which must otherwise be severely eroded if we wait for next year's budget? 

 - Mr Chairman, the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  commenced his remarks by saying that he would not go into very much detail about Vietnam. There was a pretty good reason for that. He does not know very much about Vietnam. He spent the whole of his 15 minutes talking about Vietnam, anyway. He said that nothing had changed, that we were withdrawing our troops slowly whereas we should withdraw them straightaway. The point should be made that Australia is withdrawing its troops for the very good reason that its policy is succeeding in Vietnam. This policy ls not one of failure. 
The Committee is discussing the estimates for the Department of External Affairs. This is an enormous subject, encompassing as it does the whole of the world. In the short time available to us in these debates, we can touch only on the areas which each of us considers the most important to Australia. I think that we all realise the economic and cultural ties as well as the strategic importance of the areas east of us in the Pacific, that is, New Zealand, Fiji, which is about to become independent, and other islands extending to the United States of America itself. I do not think that any of us feels any threat to Australia from that area. We do not wish to neglect it but, in a sense, Australia is the front line of the area and future recognisable threats to the security of Australia can be expected to come from the west and north-west, and not from the east - that is, from the east of Australia. For this reason, 1 wish to draw attention at every opportunity to the need for Australia to expand both its defensive and its offensive capabilities in the realisation that it cannot expect to be protected by friendly super powers forever. 
Australia has the technological capacity and the resources to become a nation of world significance. 1 think that it is about time we stopped wringing our hands and deploring such facts of life as the British withdrawal from east of Suez and the possible American reluctance to maintain a military presence in Asia. This was touched on by the honourable member for Bendigo. I repeat the view that Australia should encourage every form of cooperation with the friendly nations which share with us a responsibility in the Indian Ocean. I refer particularly to Indonesia and South Africa which both live under the threat of Communist aggression and subversion and which both resist it. They have no illusions about the intentions of international Communism - neither do I - either Moscow or Peking style, and neither country subscribes to the pathetic attitude of appeasement which is fashionable in so many other places - even. 1 regret to say, in Australia. 
Australia is in a unique positon. We have friendly relations with many nations which are unfriendly to each other. We have been able to maintain this friendship with dignity even when these nations fall out. 1 am thinking for example of the confrontation period between Malaysia and Indonesia, the problems between India and Pakistan, the trouble between South Vietnam and Cambodia, Israel and the Arab countries. In each of these cases we have maintained relationships with both sides and I believe that we have done so with dignity. I feel that Australians - that is, with the possible exception of the honourable member for Bendigo - cannot fail to be aware of the Russian penetration into the Indian Ocean area. I believe that this is a carefully planned policy to contain China and, at the same time, to expand the Soviet influence into South East Asia as the British move out. It is useful also in Russian efforts concerning oceanography, fishing and merchant activities as well as its programme in outer space. 1 have no doubt that the Russians will move carefully and not too quickly because they do not regard the Chinese as an immediate threat. None of the former European colonies or possessions is anxious to be colonised or possessed again, unless they can help it. Looking to the future, we can expect that the great seafaring nations of the world probably will not need land bases when operating away from home. The Russians have not reached this degree of sophistication yet, but they certainly seem to me to be shopping around to become established in the few suitable areas that exist. 
I will tell the honourable member shortly. With the nearest Soviet naval base at Vladivostock, it is easy to understand the Soviet interest in such strategically placed islands as Mauritius, Socotra, the Seychelles, Diego Garcia, Singapore and perhaps Ceylon which now recognises Communist countries including North Vietnam. The Soviet Union has made capital from India's fear of China and the mutual distrust between India and Pakistan. The Soviet naval influence has been felt already in India where Russian officers train Indian sailors in Russian submarines and naval facilities are closed to all foreigners other than Russians. The Americans do not appear to be showing much interest in the Indian Ocean area. It is reliably reported that the Soviet Indian Ocean squadron averages about 14 warships, including at least 1 nuclear submarine. 
An examination of the Indian Ocean area reveals that there are relatively few islands in a position to provide facilities for interested nations, such as Australia, to straddle the sea and air routes connecting South East Asia and Australia with Europe, Africa and the Middle East. For this reason, I am anxious to draw the attention of the Government urgently to the Australian Territory of Cocos Islands which, I believe, is at least equally important to the security of Australia and to our trade routes as are Darwin, Learmonth or Cockburn Sound. A satisfactory airfield is established already at Cocos Island and a submarine cable links Australia with South Africa. Cocos Island is Australian sovereign territory, well over 1,000 miles out into the Indian Ocean, and is placed in  a  position to assist in the surveillance both by air and by sea of  a  large expanse of this strategic area. Australia should give high priority to improving the Cocos Island facility, using rt ourselves and encouraging our friends to use it. Cocos Island can be described as Australia's second aircraft carrier and, with the cooperation of the friendly countries that I have mentioned, Australia- 
It is unsinkable - that is the point about it - and it is paid for. With the co-operation of the other friendly countries that I have mentioned, Australia can make a worthwhile contribution to the security of this area as well as to its own security. 
Looking to the future, I say that the time must surely come when Australia will consider a nuclear as well as a conventional armament capacity. 1 have not any doubt that the most suitable force for Australia now and in the future is a seaborne capacity. If it is in terms of a nuclear capacity, we have the additional advantage of a second strike capability. Whatever power we possess, it must be seen by other nations to be a credible deterrent, and in my view the build-up of the Cocos Island facility would provide the proof of our determination to protect ourselves and to co-operate with our friends. The security of the whole of South East Asia would be reinforced against a nuclear China if Australia and her allies possessed a similar capacity operating from Cocos Island. One could suggest that perhaps in the future this could well be the role of the Fill with Cocos Island as its base. 
In the few moments left to me I would like to make some reference to the speech last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on these estimates. It was a typical diatribe of denigration shot through with typical inconsistencies and lacking a single positive courageous thought. It makes no sense to criticise the Government, as the Leader of the Opposition did. because its foreign policies have responded to changing conditions in foreign countries. Surely this is precisely the obligation of responsible government. The Opposition's policy changes from ALP Conference to ALP Conference and relates to the power struggles which are constantly erupting within its own ranks. We have the evidence before us daily of what is happening in Victoria at the moment. 
Our policy is well known. The Opposition's variegated attitude towards foreign affairs is determined by the powerful union bosses who inform members, including the Leader of the Opposition, what the policy will be. These men have no responsibility to the electorate and this is why the Leader of the Opposition is reluctant to put forward any positive policy. We on this side can only guess at his policy. It seems that withdrawal of military support for our friends is part of it. Cancellation of the Fill appears to be another part, and the disintegration of our army by the abolition of national service seems to be another. 
The Leader of the Opposition last night spent some time talking about Indonesia. We can all remember  that  the ALP  was  once highly critical of Indonesia, about the time that the Communists were overthrown. The Leader of the Opposition loves to proclaim his hatred of racism. Is he in one breath now advocating a closer alliance with Indonesia and  two  breaths later implying criticism of her? I would like him to answer that question. Or does he apply different standards to different countries? We on this side  of  the House would like to have  closeT  military cooperation with Indonesia but we realise that we must wait until Indonesia feels ready to become involved. The Leader of the Opposition should define to us just what he means by racism. If his insulting attacks upon countries such as South Africa mean racial discrimination, and if his foreign policy will be to insult countries in which he believes racial discrimination exists, he will suddenly run out of countries and he will be able to dispense altogether with the Department of External Affairs. Unfortunately his lighthearted speech and his lightheaded contents are given publicity in many countries and are damaging to Australia's reputation, which is much more important than his. I regret that he made the comment that he made last night. 
It was not my original intention to take part in this debate, but I have listened to a succession of Opposition speakers denigrating the Government and attacking the social services legislation and the Budget generally in what I consider to be an absolutely irresponsible way. I feel some compulsion to take part in the debate. My estimate of the cost of the proposals put forward by the procession of Opposition speakers is that if Labor's proposals were adopted the present estimated cost of $ 1,000m in 1 year would rise to $2,500m in a year. The debate from the other side of the House has been a typical recital of Fabian socialism and totalitarianism. 
The only person in this chamber who would fit that description is the honourable member who has just interjected. He continues to underline that in every debate. If we had a society run by people like the honourable member who interjects we would see a big brother society. Perhaps the honourable member might be big brother. We would have somebody watching over us from the cradle to the grave. Our whole life would be ordered. Let us not forget Labor's policy of nationalisation and the abolition of upper Houses. We do not seem to hear too much about that these days. The abolition of State governors, the abolition of the Senate and policies of centralism are continually being brought forward by the Labor Party. As I say, the whole debate from the other side has been one of unreasonable and irresponsible attack upon the Budget. The attack has even been taken outside the Parliament into some of the unions and pressure groups. The attempt to take advantage of pensioners by misrepresenting the Government's attitude is a typical example of political opportunism to gain votes. I would like the honourable member who is interjecting to speak a little louder when he makes a personal attack so that I can hear it. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  1 have been endeavouring to address my remarks through you and will continue to do so. I was making the point that all of us, particularly those on this side, are anxious to improve social conditions in this country. I believe that the Government's record confirms this. We all want better conditions for our people. The Labor Party, the unions, and those who shed crocodile tears cannot claim a monopoly of this concern. The Government's record indicates our views and attitudes. From the beginning, back in 1905, pension rates were established on a basis of need and that is still the basis. In my view the Budget has been well presented and is a fair and balanced one. The Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  has described it as a health Budget, with the emphasis on health. I am prepared to defend it and am pleased to have the opportunity to do so. 1 think it is relevant to the Bill to mention that personal taxation will be reduced when the necessary legislation is passed. The people who pay taxes are the ones who provide the pensions. The Government has been criticised for the introduction of indirect taxes. I think it is fair to say that none of those indirect taxes should materially affect the sort of person whom we are attempting to look after in this legislation. A couple of years ago in this House I made a speech on the subject of taxation. I would like to mention it again because it is entirely relevant. At that time I took the opportunity to compare taxation scales in Australia with those in the United States of America. In certain groups they were most unfavourable to Australia. In each case I prepared figures that applied to a taxpayer claiming deductions for a wife and 2 children at the maximum rate which, at that time, was $1,000. Such a taxpayer in the United States, on an income of $3,000 at that time - I stress that this was 2 years ago - paid no tax at all. The Australian taxpayer on an income of $3,000 - at that time there were over half a million in this country - paid at least $90. With the more likely deductions of $500 a year he paid approximately $140 in tax. If he worked overtime or applied himself to his business and increased his income to $4,000, with the same amount of deductions - that is, $1,000- he paid tax of at least $280. Most would be paying a great deal more than that. I sought to make the point that there was little incentive for an Australian taxpayer in that group to lift his income by a third when the result would be an increase in tax of 300 per cent. 
I then went on to deal with other categories of tax in the higher groups. They are the ones that will be dealt with in this Budget. I pay a tribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and his advisers who have been able to ease taxation in this particular area. I repeat that these are the people who are providing the money for our pensioners. I am glad the Minister for Social Services is at the table. I would like to draw his attention and the attention of the House to the consumer price index which rose by 3.7 per cent from June 1969 to June 1970. If we had applied that increase to the pension rate, in the case of a married person the rate would have been increased by 49c and in the case of a single person the rate would have been increased by 56c. I would also like to direct the Minister's attention to the situation of the single person. Once again it is the single person who almost always is the worst hit. On this occasion we have not quite been able to establish the high rate that applied to the single pension 12 months ago. I hope the Government and the Minister will look at this and will keep a close watch on all these indices so that if there is any enlargement in the gap we can do something about it without having to wait another 12 months. 1 know this is the Minister's attitude, because he answered a question on these lines last week. 1 would like to say something about fringe benefits. I have listened, as far as I could stand it. to the debate today, but with the exception of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  no-one has mentioned fringe benefits. There certainly has not been any public record of the statement made by the Minister in his second reading speech dealing with this matter. It seems to me that it is totally unfair for sections of the public, pressure groups, the Opposition and everybody who wants to clout the Government, completely to overlook something which is of very great advantage to the pensioner group in our society. I am pleased to have the opportunity to say something about it because today we are on the air and whatever figures one is able to quote will go out uncensored and some people in the community will hear what the true position is. After this Bill is passed the person on the lowest pension rate will receive $15.50 per week. 
-I think that is a fairly irrelevant sort of interjection. I do not know that I have seen the honourable member trying to live on it either. We are not discussing what he or I could live on. We are discussing the number of people in the community who are in an underprivileged area and who perhaps could be described as living in pockets of poverty. I repeat that the pension is $15.50 per week. The supplementary pension is $2 and the value of the fringe benefits have been costed and appear in Hansard. Spread over 1 million pensioners they amount to $5 per pensioner per week. So the real value of the pension is $22.50 per week. No-one on this side says that that is the end of everything; we all look for improvements. These are indisputable facts and if the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  would only take the trouble to study the statements made by the Minister for Social Services he would find that they are true. 
It is a great shame that one could be in this place for 21 years and still not have the capacity to understand the legislation. 
A couple of years ago in one of my early contributions to debates I drew attention to fringe benefits and said that if we extend the fringe benefits the opportunity will be lost to make direct increases in pension payments - perhapsI should have said 'diminished'. The money would not be available; it would have been spent on fringe benefits. I understood at that time that it cost the Government $73m for every $1 increase in the pension. The more we increase the fringe benefits such as the one we were then discussing - the provision of hearing aids for pensioners - the less we are able to increase the pension directly. I sought to make the point that perhaps people in the community in this situation, the pensioners, would prefer not to have fringe benefits but increases in the pension. Since then I have conducted a survey and I know plenty of such surveys have been conducted by other authorities. I have had many discussions with pensioners, as I know all honourable members on both sides of the House have, and I am quite certain that 99 per cent, if not 100 per cent, of the pensioner community would prefer to retain all the fringe benefits even if it meant a more gradual increase in the direct pension. That is what is happening. Somewhere in the booklet which sets out the Labor Party's platform and rules I am sure there is a reference to the average wage. There is the old Socialist theory of linking things to things and of spending a fixed percentage of the gross national product on, for example, defence, foreign aid and so on. There is in this booklet a statement that the Labor Party believes that the pension should be linked to the average wage. 
-I will proceed to say what is wrong with it. On page 20 of the booklet setting out the Australian Labor Party's platform this statement appears: 
Social  security payments will be tied to a pro portion of the average weekly earnings. . . .  It does not say what the proportion shall be-  so that persons receiving benefits will receive  automatic  increases. . . . 
It goes on to deal with productivity and other terms which I do not think are understood on the other side of the House. I understand that in some debate or on some television programme the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  mentioned that this link should be 30 per cent of the average wage. If that is so 1 would like to explain to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  so that he will be better informed on the matter, that the average wage, according to the most recent reports, is approximately $63 per week after tax and 30 per cent of it is somewhere about $20. I take it that the ALP policy is that the pension at this moment should be about $20 per week. I would relate that to the figure I have just worked out which indicates that the real value of the present pension is $22.SO per week. So much for this business of linking things to the average wage. I would like to take that a step further and explain to the Opposition - I am not sure whether in the competition the honourable member for Grayndler or the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  is actually leading for Labor in relation to social services; i understand there is a great deal of ill-feeling between them - that this figure more properly should be related to the most common wage, not the average wage. 
I think honourable members will find that the most common wage in this country is about $48 or $50 a week, lt is very difficult to work out the exact figure. Table No. 30 in the Year Book for 1967, which is fairly authoritative, shows that in the grade of actual income from $1,000 to $2,000 the number of taxpayers in 1967 was just under H million and that in the next group of $2,000 to $4,000 the number was just under  2i  million. This means that out of a total work force of 5 million about 4 million people are earning between $1,000 and $4,000 and many of them must be earning somewhere about the most common wage. 
I would suggest to the honourable member that the wage most commonly received in this country is somewhere about $50 and not anywhere near the average wage. The point I seek to make is that pensions should be related perhaps to the most common wage. On that basis I submit to the House that the pension at the moment is roughly half the wage received most commonly in this country. I believe that the average wage is misleading because very few people receive a very high wage. If high wages are included in a calculation the average is lifted. 
We on this side of the House have a concern for people who are on the most common wage and in this category I would include as an example migrant couples. One can imagine the situation of a migrant couple with 4 or 5 children. I would also include a working widow with dependent children, a working deserted wife with dependent children or a working widower with dependent children. There are thousands and perhaps a million of this class of person in this country. In my view this is the true area of underprivilege and poverty in which we should be working and on which I am aware the Minister is anxious to spend his efforts. 
In the time left to me I would like, for the record, to hurry through some of the amounts that are involved in the fringe benefits. I would like to make the point that the actual pension rate has risen by 50 per cent since 1947, together with other fringe benefits which I will quickly enumerate. A supplementary assistance payment of $2 a week is made to single and married pensioners who receive the standard rate of pension, who pay rent and whose means are assessed at under $52. There are 150,000 in this category in Australia. A wife's allowance of $7 a week is paid to a non-pensioner wife of an invalid pensioner. There are 23,000 in this category in Australia. A guardian's allowance of $4 a week is paid to single and widowed pensioners with children under 16 years of age and there are 4,000 in this category in Australia. There is also an additional pension for children. In the last few years many improvements have been made for age and invalid pensioners which have not been mentioned by the Opposition and for which the Government should have been given credit. I refer to such benefits as the Meals on Wheels subsidy, home care, paramedical services, subsidies for dwellings for aged people and so on. 
I think that we should at least be given fairly high marks for achieving significant break-throughs in the field of the pensioner medical service. I am quite sure that no pensioner would want to have this fringe benefit taken away. A pensioner receives free consultation from general practitioners both in his own home and in the doctors' surgery. He also receives free specialist treatment as an outpatient at a public hospital. A pensioner with dependants has over 8 general practitioner consultations a year whereas the corresponding average for the non-pensioner insured person is less than 4. In relation to the health benefit, pensioners receive free treatment in public wards of public hospitals together with the ancillary medical services which go with such treatment. I am sure all honourable members have had experience of pensioners with serious protracted illnesses for whom the free pharmaceutical benefit is a tremendous boon. The list of drugs available under the national health service includes all drugs on the health benefits list plus some extra ones. The value per head of the medical, hospital and pharmaceutical benefits which I have referred to and which I have not seen mentioned in any newspaper report works out at $3.10 per pensioner. 
With other benefits such as the nursing home benefits pensioners are entitled to $14 a week for light nursing and $35 a week for heavy nursing. Miscellaneous benefits of considerable value such  as  home nursing, the construction of nursing homes, and home care and paramedical service, the hearing aid service - as I mentioned a moment ago - and the Meals on Wheels subsidy are available. For personal care there is a payment of $5 a week for elderly people over 80. At the time this was introduced we were looking for the day when this age could perhaps be reduced to 75. There are almost a million elderly residents in non-profit hostel type accommodation. Concessions are provided for radio and television licences which have greatly reduced the rates for pensioners. The pensioners share  in  various housing benefits which were introduced by this Government such as the aged persons homes scheme, dwellings for aged persons and  rental  concessions for aged pensioners in units. Pensioners also receive, special fare concessions in all States. Admittedly these are State benefits but they do accrue to the same category of person. Pensioners receive alleviation of council and other rates in some States 
The tax concession should not be overlooked. This also is of some benefit to non-pensioners. The average of all these benefits just mentioned works out at slightly less than $5 a week to which must be added the various concessions which were not costed by the Minister. Without anY doubt the fringe benefits are in excess of $5 a week. I repeat that we are by no means prepared to say that this is the end of the story. We are seeking improvements all the time. But in fairness to the Government and just for the sake of not trying to secure political points on some occasions let someone agree that the real value of the pension spread over the million pensioners in this country - a very high proportion of the total work force of 5 million - will be $22.50 which allows for the $5 value of the fringe benefits. That figure approximates half the wage most commonly received in Australia. I repeat that the pension is calculated on the basis of need. The Government is on record as being conscious of the needs of the pensioners in the community. Its supporters continue to push for improvements. I think the Minister would be the first to agree that he would like some let-up. At least let honourable members opposite give the Government the credit it deserves. I say to them: Just for once let us approach this in a non-political way and stop trying to make political gain out of this section of the community. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been directed to statements made by the Premier of South Australia that the Commonwealth is ignoring his efforts to renegotiate the Dartmouth Dam Agreement, and his accusations that the Commonwealth Government - not the State Government, of course - is playing politics in this matter? In view of the urgent need for South Australia to secure the added water supplies gained for it by the previous Government, will the Prime Minister try to arrange a meeting between the authorities concerned, if possible during the brief period available between the Premier's current overseas trips? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether, in view of the current interest in enemy flags and Moratorium demonstrations, his attention has been drawn to the more sinister aspect of the use of these flags as weapons against the police. I ask him whether he has seen an instruction issued to peace marchers by one of the Moratorium organising groups, the Students for Democratic Action, which says: 
Put your placard or flag on a thick stick and if an RSL, DLP Fascist, soldier or a cop thumps you -hit back. 
Has the Prime Minister had an opportunity to examine these weapons? This is the sort of weapon. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Affairs and is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Diamond Valley. How many United States troops will be left in Vietnam and what will be their role? How will this number compare with the numbers of front line - that is, combat - troops of the South Vietnamese army? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Customs and Excise been drawn to the extraordinarily mild penalties which are consistently imposed on convicted drug pedlars in most courts throughout the Commonwealth? In view of the increasing numbers of drug thefts from both retail and wholesale pharmacists, what steps can be taken to strengthen security? Finally, is there any evidence of drug addiction amongst school children in Australia? 
1 think that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant; should be corrected on one or two important inaccuracies. He said that the Minister for Defence (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had referred to  Senator Kennedy.  I would like the honourable member for Wills :o know that the Minister for Defence was talking about John' Kennedy, the former  President  of the United States. There is a slight difference. The honourable member for Wills referred also to the Canadian forces. He ought to know that the Canadian forces have run down by almost 20,000 Service personnel to 82,000. He talked also about Britain. The British Army has been reduced from 300,000 to 150,000 personnel since national service was abolished. Just to prove the point I quote  Mr Denis  Healey. He said: 
By the end of 1972 we shall have cut our defence expenditure by one-third. We shall have cut our commitments by one-half and our defence manpower by one-fifth. We have 7 fewer battalions in Britain today. 
This is as a result of the abolition of national service. The Royal Navy is down severely. I believe the figure is somewhere in excess of 20,000 personnel. I finish on this point of rebuttal by pointing to the fact that the ordinary Australian soldier is the highest paid soldier in the world. 
The only point on which 1 agree with the honourable member for Wills is that we do not get enough time to discuss the defence estimates when we have only 10 minutes in which to speak. In the short time left to me I want to say something to honourable members and the Australian public about 2 documents which were produced by the American Security Council, one in 1967 arid one last month, entitled The Changing Strategic Military Balance USA v. USSR'. These studies were prepared for the United Slates House Armed Services Committee to assess the military strength, especially in terms of nuclear capacity, between the 2 great powers. The reports are based on unclassified material and are available to members in the Parliamentary Library and, I would hope, to the general public. They make very grim reading. Every Australian should know what most Americans now realise, that the United States nuclear superiority over the Soviet Union in 1961 has now been reversed. The United States Secretary of Defence noted in a speech to the Associated Press annual luncheon in April last in America: 
In the space of 3 years - from 1965 to 1970- the Soviet Union has virtually quadrupled the total  megatonnage  in its strategic defensive force. ... in the same period the US reduced its megatonnage by more than 40 per cent. 
I think there has been a tendency for Australians, and probably Americans, to regard Communist China as world public enemy No. 1. This stems from the lack of proper understanding of the ideologies of the 2 Communist world powers. In my view, the Soviet's ideology is much more dangerous to genuine world peace than the Chinese ideology, certainly in the short term. Red China is completely committed to Maoism, which in simple terms is the practice and advocacy for other nations of old-fashioned reactionary Communism but not direct military involvement in other nations affairs. The present regime in China possesses a fanatical conviction in some sort of dream world Communist Utopia where all nations achieve the purity of Maoist thoughts by internal revolution. I do not believe that the present Communist Chinese hierarchy is interested in overt means of securing this Utopia. It believes in the concept of ultimate Communist world domination through local wars of national liberation achieved through a condition of world revolution and the acts of violence committed at Moratorium demonstrations, university sit-ins, etc, to which I have been personally subjected and which arc the local manifestation of Maoism in action. 
What 1 am saying is of importance in understanding ideologies and what activates people, lt is a shame that the honourable member does not spend more time in studying them. A study of Soviet Communist ideology is much more disturbing for Australia, especially having regard to obvious Soviet intentions. Like the Chinese, the Soviets believe in the doctrine of permanent world revolution, but unlike the Chinese, the Soviets are committed to a traditional policy of Russian colonialism which makes the former great colonial powers look positively benign. 
While covertly observing the doctrine of permanent world revolution, the Soviet also overtly pursues one of 'peaceful coexistence' so that we see her piously coexisting with the United States and other western powers and. at the same time, engaging in deliberate underhand breaches of this 'peace' epitomised at this very moment by the undenied Soviet penetration of Egypt and her undoubted control of the Suez canal. 
Several of my colleagues and I have drawn attention to the Soviet activity in the Indian Ocean - such matters as the Russian interest in Mauritius. Socotra, East Africa, India, Ceylon, Singapore, as well as the undeniable proximity to our north of such strategically placed ports as Vladivostok and the submarine port of Petro Pavlovsk. The British have now fewer than 20 combat vessels east of Suez, the French only a couple of destroyers and, apart from an unknown number of submarines, the United States naval activity is confined to the Persian Gulf area. Members of the Opposition take great comfort from the apparent disengagement of the United States in South East Asia and they think they can make capital from the announced United States abolition of national service within the next three years. I find nothing to comfort Australia in any of the changing United States attitudes. The Americans are not in the hot seat, we are. 1 am pleased to note the continuing modernisation of our three Services under this Government and, in particular, the decision to expedite the building of a naval base at Cockburn Sound, together with the upgrading of the RAAF complex at Exmouth. 1 remind honourable members that North West Cape is closer to Saigon than it is to Sydney, closer to Djakarta than Djakarta is to Darwin, and I make the serious proposition that this area could well be established as a major defence complex, including Army training facilities. J remind the House that, even in 1967, the American Security Council reported that the available evidence indicated that the Soviet Union had a goal of strategic superiority designed to win a nuclear war rather than merely deter one. Once in a war-winning posture, the USSR would be ideally situated to practice nuclear blackmail and would not even have to fight a nuclear war. 
The United Stales has exchanged ils goal of a war winning strategic superiority for a strategy of mutual deterrence. 1 take the view that the Soviets had already won the arms race and can clinch their policy of world domination any time they please. They will not bother to unleash their nuclear weapons because they need human labor to sustain them and to build their expanding empire. This is the same technique used in eastern Europe except that the slave labor of the captive nations was used and still is used to create and maintain Soviet industry. Soviet Russia is in the position where she can blackmail into sub mission any nation she chooses. How prophetic were the words of Kruschev in 1963 when he said: 
Today the imperialists pretend to be brave - but only in words; in reality they tremble before the socialist world which is growing and  gaining  in strength. And let them tremble! So much the better for us! A fight is in progress between these two systems, a life and death combat. But we Communists want to win this struggle with the least losses, and there is no doubt whatsoever that we shall win. This is why we are striving for victory, for the triumph of Communism, without  unleasing  a world thermonuclear war. 
I believe that we are living in the most dangerous period of human history. 
The Australian public is unaware of the danger. The Press is reluctant to tell them - presumably because that kind of information does not sell newspapers - and the Socialist Labor Party in the other side - as someone just interjected and said: 'We are still living' - supports, perhaps unconsciously, what can well be described as a conspiracy of silence and subservience to Soviet-directed international Communism. I commend the proposed expenditure to the Committee and I commend the Minister for his zeal. 
I was interested to listen to the remarks that were made by, I think, the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  a short time ago. I believe that he advocated the massive grant of federal funds to local government - I think the honourable member referred to his service in local government - and suggested that local government should, in fact, take care of social service work within the States. I think it is true to say that this is the line that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  has been pushing for some months. Unfortunately I do not have any recent quotations of what the Leader of the Opposition has said on this subject but I am sure that I have heard him say something to this effect in this House in the last few days. 
The Leader of the Opposition. I happen to have a quotation which is contained in the 1956 Hansard of this place. I think we would have to say that it is accurate. During a speech in Parliament the honourable member was asked whether he had abandoned nationalisation. He said: 
No. We advocate  municipalisation  in regard to local services,  mutualisation  in regard to insurance offices and nationalisation of services which affect everybody in the nation. 
I find  it  very difficult to follow the Leader of the Opposition. I' regard him as something of a political chameleon which, as honourable members know, is a lizard which turns red when  it  is put on a red rock and blue when it is put on a blue rock. I have a quotation from what was said by the Leader of the Opposition, which I am sure will be of interest to the Committee, as reported  in  the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 8th April 1968. The Leader of the Opposition was addressing, of all places, the New South Wales Fabian Society. 
This is entirely relevant because the honourable member for Burke said that social services should be instituted through local government. The honourable member referred to his 10 years in local government, and I can claim to have a few years in it as well. This quotation is perfectly relevant because it shows that either the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition has changed completely or hrs credibility is open to doubt. 
 I do not think so because it is in Hansard. What he said is clearly there on record. 1 would like to read to the House what the Leader of the Opposition said to the New South Wales Fabian Society in 1968. The Press article is headed: 'Hit at Local Government'. The dateline is Sydney, 7th April. The article stated: 
 There was too much local government in New South Wales, the Federal Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said in Sydney today. 
There were governments everywhere - local, State and Federal - but only the Federal Government had the money effectively to govern. 
The States got a certain amount of money from poker machines, racing and so on, but 'people's vices are not so great that governments can tax many more of them.' 
All political activity in local government would be more efficient if there were fewer local governments. 
I think I heard an honourable member interject that that is true. The article went on to state: 
All political activity in local government would be more efficient if there were fewer local governments. 
It is very hard to follow the Leader of the Opposition. He is, to say the best, inconsistent. I would like to say something of Socialism and the philosophy of the Australian Labor Party because that philosophy has an effect on the matter of social services which is before us. I would like to refer to the book containing the constitution, rules and platform of the Australian Labor Party and particularly to page 20. which under the heading 'Social Welfare' deals with pensions. It goes into great depth but. in a sentence, it says that the pensions should be a percentage of the average wage. Nowhere in that book does it say what the percentage should be, although ( understand that there have been other references by the Leader of the Opposition to the effect that it should be 30 per cent. It seems to me that the policy should be spelt out in some detail rather than merely referring to a percentage. 
 I will deal with that loo in a moment. The percentage should be dealt with in detail. Is it 30 per cent? Is it 10 per cent? What is the percentage? All the way through the policy of the Labor Party this atmosphere of Socialism keeps pushing through, lt states that defence should be a percentage of the gross national product. Just imagine how much- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  (Mr  Drury) - Order! As I understand it, the honourable member is reading something in relation to the Opposition's policy on social services. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I was dealing with page 20 of the document setting out the Labor Party's constiutiion, platform and rules under the heading 'Social Welfare'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Sturt will cease interjecting. I warn him for the last time. 
What I am saying is entirely relevant. I intended, but of course there will not be enough time, to expand on the policy of the Labor Party on such things as overseas aid. This also is tied to some other percentage. It is a percentage of the gross national product. While there is an opportunity, I would like to say how much  1  deplore the remarks that were made last night by the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan).  Referring to national servicemen, he said that national service had made criminals out of people who would otherwise have gone through the whole of their lives with unblemished records and would have been a credit to this country. I wish to be dissociated from that sentiment. In my view, those young men are very much a credit to their country. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I have warned the honourable member for Sturt, who is again interjecting. I said that I warned him fox the last time. If he interrupts again and disobeys the Chair I will name him. 
We are dealing with repatriation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! There have been a lot of interjections all the time from the honourable member's own side which have made it a little difficult and a little incoherent. I ask the honourable member for Boothby to confine his remarks to the matter before the Chair. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I think that, by the same token, my remarks are not entirely irrelevant because national servicemen eventually become returned soldiers. We are dealing with repatriation, and what members on the other side of the chamber think about returned soldiers is relevant to the estimates we are discussing. What the honourable member for Forrest said about national servicemen when they become returned soldiers was absolutely disgraceful. 
I shall get back to the question of pensions. I was dealing with the matter of the average wage. It is important, when we have regard to the amount of social service pensions paid by this Government, that we consider it in relation to what is the most common wage. I have referred to this before in this place. According to a Press report in the 'Australian' only today the wage most commonly paid in Western Australia until this moment has been $46 a week. I think that members ' are less than honest if they do not study the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  on the Social Services Bill and determine what is the true value of the pension. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
1 must Say that the display of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has not been one of his best. In fact, during one period he really abused the forms of this House. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - There is no substance in the point of order. It is a matter for the Chair. 
1 am taking my second period. I feel a bit loquacious this afternoon. 1 have listened to the honourable member for Sturt attacking honourable members on this side of the House. He has used expressions like 'talk around the lobbies'. He made some suggestion that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  does not have the support of the Government. Another expression which be used was 'a lack of understanding of the problems of the aged'. He also said that we are interested only in exploiting the aged. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I I have warned the honourable member for Sturt two or three times this afternoon. As be well knows it is against the Standing Orders to interject. 1 have warned him a number of times and I will not warn him again. 
It does not disturb me,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  But I would like to say to the House and to the honourable member who has interjected that if the tragic situation ever arose in which the Labor Party became the government there is not a single thing that he or any other member of the Parliamentary Labor Party could do about anything. They would do exactly what was decided for them by their bosses outside this Parliament and I think this is a deplorable situation. No-one is going to tell me that that is not the true position, that the Labor Party and its policies are not controlled by people not elected by the taxpayers of Australia. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Robertson is out of order. 
He is also out of his place. I would use as an example of this lack of parliamentary control the dreadful situation which exists at the moment in South Australia where a referendum has just been held and where the will of the people will not be executed. I have in front of me- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I call the honourable member for Boothby. 
J will not deal with that any more except to say that there is pictorial evidence of the Premier of  South  Australia waiting outside a house for the executive of the Labor Party to tell him in what way the Government should bring in its legislation as a result of this referendum. But i will now deal with the question of single pensioners, something which has been overlooked by all speakers today. In my view - it is unpopular to say it - the section of the pensionable community which is worst off is that which contains single pensioners. I have had discussions with and made representations to the Minister over some years about this matter. When I use the expression 'those who are living in genteel poverty' I am thinking about widows, widowers and unmarried elderly women who live in their own homes, who do not pay rent but who pay rates. I would like  to  suggest to the Minister once again that this matter be considered at the time of the next Budget and that perhaps a case should now be settled for people in this situation to be paid a supplementary pension. It is increasingly difficult for those sorts of people to maintain their properties with one pension coming into the house. 
I believe that families such as those of migrants with 4 or 5 children, deserted wives, widows and deserted widowers with dependent children are the ones who are seriously affected in the community. A lot of the crocodile tears we have seen thi.s afternoon have no sincere and genuine application. One matter that has been overlooked is intiation, In my view, the person hurt first and hardest in an inflationary situation is the pensioner. Every wage increase and every loss in productivity is paid for by the pensioner, the superannuitants or persons on fixed incomes. I take the view that militant trade unionists do not give a darn for the pensioner. That is most unfortunate and unrealistic, because I should think more than half the pensioner community is made up of former trade unionists. 
would like to quote a comment made by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  today in answer to a question dealing with the 35-hour week. He said that if a 35-hour week were successfully introduced into this country at the moment the increase in unit cost would be immediately from 10 per cent to 12 per cent a unit. 1 would make the point that the ones who could least handle this increase would be those on fixed incomes and pensioners. The Minister also said that the cost to the community in the first year would be $2,000m, a pretty significant figure. I commend to the House an address by the Minister for Labour and National Service to the Committee for Economic Development of Australia on 8th October when he said, dealing with inflation: 
In the last 4 years, average weekly earnings have increased by an average of about 7 per cent per annum and consumer prices by about 3 per cent per annum. In the first 6 months of the current year (1970) the rate of inflation has accelerated to an annual rate of 4-) per cent. 
If it continued for any length of time, this rate of inflation would be quite unacceptable - not just to the Government with economic responsibility to maintain balanced growth and development, but to large sections of the community who are powerless in the redistribution of income, wages, and assets which is the social vice of inflation. 
He was referring to the group I mentioned, the pensioners. I think it was the honourable member for Sturt who briefly mentioned the Pensioners' Little Budget Campaign. He referred to an article by Professor Downing. Just before I came into the chamber I received a copy of a letter sent to the Prime Minister and one sent to me by the Pensioners' Little Budget Campaign. In that letter the writer says: 
The Committee is nol associated with any party--  which means political party - 
. nor do any of its supporters represent any party or pensioners' Organisation. 
I have some doubt about that, because yesterday 1 received a letter from a single pensioner referring to this campaign and to the Pensioners' Federation and the plight of single pensioners. I would like to quote briefly from this letter because I think it is entirely relevant and it is certainly about social services. The writer says in her letter: 
They- 
That is the Pensioners' Federation -   . . were so hostile too to our differential pension, which  Mr Molt  first introduced in 1963.  Mrs Ellis  is the ruling spirit, and is always anxious to get 'Little Budgets' after the big one. lt. is clear profit for her, as she owns her own house, and lets flats. They are nol needy, as how could they go regularly, year after year, lo Canberra. 
I mention this because there is a movement for a 'Little Budget' sponsored by the Brotherhood of St Laurence, who are always ready to fall in with the idea of more money from the Government. But there are things such as housing for pensioners, more money per week for the lone property owner, the payment to surviving members of family units, such as mother and daughter, or two sisters etc. who should be paid al least two-thirds of the 12 weeks double pension now paid to the surviving marriage partner. 
She goes on to say: 
Although the Little Budget is ostensibly being asked for by high Anglican circles, it is nevertheless the brain child of  Mrs Ellis.  There arc so many of we lone pensioners (70 per cent of all groups) that we pick up news from all over the place, and we are well aware of the source of most appeals to Canberra. We ourselves were fortunate in helping to obtain the States Grants for aged persons dwellings, and those who can earn find the tapered Means Test of great benefit. 
That is good to know. The letter continues: 
But the Pensioners* Federation never included such things in their curriculum- 
I would be very pleased to receive the file to which the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  has referred. 1 would then proceed to table it in this place. There would not be a single person who has ever been to my office who has not had service, whether he or she comes from the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Australian Country Party or even the Communist Party. I would like to have the list to which the honourable idiot referred tabled in this Parliament. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to further reported attacks upon him yesterday by the Premier of South Australia. The Premier of South Australia stated that the moment he arrived in Canberra the Prime Minister said to him: 'You can ratify the agreement to build the Dartmouth Dam or you will get nothing'. He also claimed that similar instructions were given not only to the Federal Minister concerned but also to the State Ministers who attended last Friday's conference. This is an interesting new development in CommonwealthState relationships. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the total number of persons in the Australian civilian workforce in each of the years ending 30th June 1967, 1968, 1969 and 1970. 
What was the total number of Commonwealth Government civilian employees in each of the same years. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, immigration is one of the few subjects on which Government and Opposition members agree pretty much on all aspects. I know from listening to the speech by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  who has just resumed his seat and to the speech delivered by the honourable member who preceded him, that this view has been confirmed in respect of this legislation. One could continue by saying in respect of this measure: 'We support it. We support it. We should have had this proposal years ago. We support it.' But it is necessary to say a little more than that, particularly because of the amendment which has been moved by the Opposition. To say the least, I think that the amendment is a trifle unfair, particularly the part which states:   . . this House condemns the Government for the delay in providing a comprehensive programme of migration education, adequate finance facilities and capital equipment, including buildings. 
I think that it is reasonable to defend the Government and to say that, after all, this whole question of education is and has been traditionally and constitutionally a State responsibility as is the sponsorship of migrants. The responsibility of the Commonwealth virtually has been in the recruitment of migrants. Let me set out some of the questions that we should be asking ourselves. I hope that, in the cost/ benefit analysis which the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  has arranged - for which I congratulate him - these questions which I would like to have dealt with will be answered. For example, one question that I would ask is: Just how large should our population be? I do not know, who knows what it ought to be? Should it be 13 million, 30 million or 130 million? It seems to me that this is a most important questionthat we should be asking ourselves. Some optimum figure must be established somewhere. 1 am not one of those who believe any longer that we must populate or perish. 
Going back over the history of immigration. I remember very well, without referring to the quality of life, the quality of the migrants who came to us after World War II. The quality of these migrants was absolutely superlative. We would like to see migrants of this type continue to be attractedto Australia. 
I am referring to the migrants who came to Australia after the Second World War. They were displaced people from Europe who had very strong motives for coming to this country. These people have proved to be excellent migrants. But I believe the motives for immigration have changed since those years. One of the problems is that we cannot control the flow of immigration by, as it were, turning the tap on and turning the tap off. What we can do though, 1 think, is perhaps to have a gentle easing of the flow from the tap to look at the quality of the material that iscoming out of it. I was interested to hear the Minister during question time today announce that our migrant intake for this year will be about 10,000 fewer than the original target of 180,000. I think that we should, if nothing else, be self critical on some of these subjects. 1 believe that our migration programme has been totally successful, although it has created areas of underprivilege in the community. It has been a compassionate policy and, in my view, it is the best migration policy in the world. It is selective, it is true: but it is selective because we wish to preserve a homogeneous population and because we have deliberately set out not to create a multi-racial society. But I think we must agree that along the line we have set up some pockets of underprivilege. 
We hear at odd times, when we can sort out the sense, criticism by some people of the pensioner arrangements and, in particular, criticism of the recent pension increases. Without going over the previous debates, 1 would like to reiterate my view that one of the most serious areas of underprivilege in addition to the single pensioner group is amongst migrants. The migrant pensioner is in an even worse situation. I had a classic case brought to my attention only last week. It related to a migrant pensioner who had died and left a widow with 5 children. Even when that migrant was alive and employed, he, like a million other people in this country, was receiving a wage of approximately only $50 a week. I believe that that is the most serious area of underprivilege or poverty, if we can put it that way. Of course, the reason for it is the one we are trying to eliminate today. This man had the serious disadvantage of not being able to speak our language. There would be another million people like him confined largely to working in road gangs or in an unskilled capacity. 
I compare the situation of migrant families and migrant children with that of the mentally handicapped. I think they are equally handicapped. They do not have the same sort of support as the mentally handicapped. In the last session of Parliament we passed legislation for the assistance of mentally handicapped children. There is a community acceptance of and compassion for these people. I have been for years a member ofan association concerned with mentally handicapped children. Members of these associations have parents and friends who can apply pressures on the Government, but migrants are not in that position. 
There is also a tendency for people to compare our system with the system in other countries. In particular, there has been comparison with the Canadian system. Under that system. Canada seeks to attract only those migrants with skills. It employs what is called a points system. In general terms, someone achieving over 40 points out of a maximum of 100 is admitted as a migrant. It is interesting to note that 30 points are alloted to a migrant who has an education and that another 10 are allotted to someone who is fluent in French and English. It is also interesting that 27 per cent of the population of Canada is of neither French nor English origin. There is significant racial discontent in that country, which is what I am sure we jointly seek to avoid in this country. 
Like other speakers, I find that migrant children suffer a serious disability in some of the schools in my electorate. I find that the problem varies from school to school. In those schools in the inner suburbs and in the older established areas there is a very high percentage of migrant children in all the classes. The number becomes fewer as we get through into the secondary classes. I understand that there are fewer migrants in country schools. But in at least one school in my electorate and in at least one class in this school every child is a migrant and none of them has a proper command of the English language. I understand that 5 per cent of the school population are migrant children, but of course this percentage must be very much higher in many of the schools. I may be making a mild criticism, but I think it is most important for us to organise teaching of English to intending migrants in their own country. If we could pay a subsidy or spend time and effort, and therefore money, to introduce the teaching of English into schools in Greece, Turkey or any of the other European countries, that would be money very well spent. Notes which refer to what is done in these countries have been circulated, and somewhere or other they mention preembarkation language instruction in Turkey and Greece in particular. But 1 would make the point that Greece, for example, is a country of dozens and dozens of islands, and very few of the Greek migrants can possibly have any pre-embarkation language instruction. Even then, many of those coming to this country  -  1 do not know what the figure is now but I believe it is about 40 per cent - travel by air, so there is no opportunity for them to have lessons in the language while they are travelling to Australia. 
I have heard a considerable amount of criticism of recent arrivals, particularly those from the United Kingdom. I think it is permissible to refer to quality in that way. I have spoken to welfare officers and chaplains who have in the last few months come to Australia on vessels carrying migrants, and there seems to be no doubt that a large number  -  10 per cent is a large number - of persons coming to Australia at the moment from the United Kingdom are really coming here for a holiday. I would like to see the Minister and the Department have a look at that matter. I am also concerned about the problems which are arising within the' Yugoslav community in Australia because, as I recollect, when this legislation was foreshadowed and the immigration agreement with Yugoslavia was entered into a year or so ago the arrangement was that we were to receive a very large number of skilled tradesmen migrants. I do not believe that this is what is happening. I believe that we are receiving large numbers of unskilled Yugoslavs and people who cannot speak our language. There is a considerable amount of discontent in the Yugoslav community in Australia. I would (ike to mention briefly the Tregillis report on the training of skilled workers in Europe. 
 1 made the point earlier that, if we approve of this Bill, all we can keep on saying is: 'I approve of the Bill'. I think there are some things in the Bill and some attitudes about our immigration policy that can be altered. In any case, I think that the amendment moved by the Opposition is to be deplored, so I am attempting to resist it. I will now deal briefly with the Tregillis report. I hope that we will have the opportunity at some time in the future to debate this report in some detail. It refers to the report of the Vernon Committee of Economic Inquiry in 1965 and draws attention to the matter of education. It states: 
. the problem of increasing the skilled work force 'will not be solved by- raising the immigration target in order to acquire more craftsmen from overseas, although anything that can be done to increase the proportion of skilled persons among immigrants will be useful'. 
Threaded all through this report are references to the need for a better understanding of our language and a better understanding of tradesmen's skills among migrants. I think that we can find evidence there to support what we have to say. I want to mention briefly a couple of points raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  He had some sort of odd constitutional theory in respect of migration and he felt that we could in some way or other get around the Constitution and feed money into hospitals, health services, mental institutions and local government. I would like to say that that is precisely what we are not seeking to do. The whole purpose of encouraging migrants to learn English is to try to integrate them into our own community and not allow them to become separate. We surely do not want a situation where we have separate hospitals and separate local authorities. The honourable member also opposed the ethnic groupings in the community and in this I would disagree with him quite strongly and put in a word in support of ethnic groupings. I believe that they are of considerable benefit to migrants and I am thinking in particular of the Greek community and how much it has done to help Greek migrants in counselling, securing employment and general social welfare work. 
As a final comment in this debate I would like to refer to some remarks made by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  outside the House at the eighteenth Australian Citizenship Convention which I think expressed a quite asinine point of view. He said: 
One group of migrants now coming in who have no ethnic group or particular affiliations in Australia are Asians.  I  have helped in settling some Asian migrants and generally the Department of Immigration has been helpful, effective and speei.lv. But there is confusion and misunderstanding in both Asia and Australia about procedures. 
Air Grassby - That is right. 
We will deal with that in a moment. The honourable member said further:  lt is desirable to overcome this, and a very simple way would be to have a special office in an Asian capital, perhaps Manila, where a team of skilled people could clear the confusion. 
I would suggest that the only confusion that exists is in the honourable member's mind because the Philippines is one country with which we do not have any arrangement. Although we take some Filipino migrants it does not accept any from Australia. Our policy on non-European migration is very well known and if it is not well known and understood it is entirely the fault of persons like the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  It is up to us to understand our policy and to go out and sell it. 
This is an area of migration which we should examine much more closely. I am sure we all have cases of people who have come to Australia and spent many years here and become more Australian than Asian and wish to stay on that basis. This is, I think, unfortunate because they come to this country to learn a skill and take the skill back to their own country. I wonder whether the Government, and perhaps both parties, could give consideration to the suggestion of training Asian people in their own countries. I understand that at any one time in this country 12 per cent of students who wish to attend university are excluded from courses because of the number of Asians in the faculties. That is fair enough, but when large percentages of those students come back here this seems to me to be unfair to the Australian born student. I wonder if we and the Asians would not get better value for our money if we set up a university for example in Singapore and sent our own staff - lecturers and academics - to train Singaporeans, Malaysians. Indians and any other people one cares to suggest. I think the Bill is an excellent move. It is a shame it did not happen years ago but we have to remember that previous Ministers have had to make agreements with all the States and to make an agreement at that level on any subject is. 1 think, an achievement. I support the Bill and strongly oppose the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for National Development. In view of the delay in the construction of the Dartmouth Dam and the decision in the recent national wage case, is the Minister able to tell the House of the amount of escalation in the contract price? What obligation is there upon member governments to meet the increases when the South Australian Government does finally agree to ratify the agreement under which the dam is to be built? 
We are continuing the debate that was adjourned last night on the statement by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  regarding censorship. I take this opportunity of congratulating the Minister on the immense amount of work that he has done in compiling the statement. It is most comprehensive. Like many of the other documents that he has prepared, it required a great deal of courage - perhaps more than any of us possess - to introduce it. Firstly, I would like to refer to the Minister's very limited powers in this matter. 1 remind the House that the Commonwealth is responsible only for the laws governing the importation of pornographic and other materials and that the responsibility for laws governing the production of such material rests with the States. 1 would disagree with 2 points in the Minister's statement. Possibly, he has different ideas since he presented the statement last year. The statement is some 8 or 9 months old now. One of the points I disagree with is his assertion that censorship is evil.I do not believe this. In fact, I believe that we all practise censorship in some for or another. We all practise selfcensorship. We all read the advertisement for a motion picture before we go to see it, and we all read the advertisement for a television film before we watch it. Provided we can make an honest view of the film in that advertisement, we make a judgment as to whether or not we will watch it. So, I submit that unconsciously we do apply self-censorship to ourselves. In the Parliament we practise censorship. We do not allow unparliamentary language. We limit ourselves in the time permitted for debate. We do not allow interjections. So, in the Parliament we do approve of censorship. We have had no time to pursue the question of military censorship. I put the view that military censorship has been lax to a degree in respect of news reports emanating from Vietnam. Very often, this laxness has tended to endanger - our. forces serving there.  -i . , . 
I disagree also with the Minister in his assertion that censorship' is' not the business of the people. I take- the view that we as the elected members  of- this Parliament are, in fact, a cross-section of the people and that we should reflect in this place the views of the community 'and therefore the attitudes of the community. I think that the community trusts us' as members of Parliament in this matter. 1 believe that the members of the community feel that, someone has to control'pornographic material and other obscenities.I 'do not believe that the Press, the advertisers, the exhibitors or the police, because the. police have not the powers that they need, ,.can do this. I believe it is up to members of Parliament to do this.In the . final , analysis, we are answerable at the ballot box. 1 wish to raise another matter about which I am sure the . Minister also feels strongly. The South Australian Government has demonstrated an . interest in censorship. It has, unfortunately I believe, acted unilaterally particularly in regard to the novel 'Portnoy's Complaint' which I have read. For once in. nrjy life at least, I agree entirely with the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  I consider that it was . a  collection of pure rubbish. If the 4-letter words were eliminated, it would still be garbage. The South Australian Goverrimeut is not taking censorship very seriously/ Recently we had the example of a' pornographic university publication which was distributed on a university campus. I wrote to the AttorneyGeneral in South Australia and asked him whether he would investigate it and consider prosecuting those responsible. That was in early December,,, and no action has been taken. 
Concern is felt at least by some members of the South Australian Parliament - for example, by  Mr Corcoran^on  the matter of abortion and the alarming figures that have been revealed by State reports. Still, no action has been taken by the Government in South Australia.^ On this issue I refer to a section of the policy speech delivered by the Premier. of South Australia in which he stated that his Government would 'set a standard of social advancement that the whole of Australia will envy'. Social reform, or whatever it is called, can create many problems. Some people would call it 'civilised society'. Other people would Call it 'liberated society'. 
I draw the attention of the House to the sorry mess in Britain at the moment. That country is surveying the results of permissiveness which always progresses a little at a lime. Easy divorce, the relaxation of censorship, easily obtained abortions and the relaxation in the laws governing homosexuality all contribute to this state of affairs. My point of view is that permissiveness, regardless of the name by which it is known, eventually sows in such countries the seeds of destruction. 
I will re d briefly, because my time is limited, a few remarks from the report of  Sir George  Godber, the Chief Medical Officer of the British Government. He stated, in a report presented to a Socialist government: 
The medical profession is so alarmed that its leaders have warned that hospitals soon won't be able to cope with these by-products of the liberated  society 
Illegitimate births to girls under 16 have trebled in 10 years; the VD figures are up 50,000 on the worst of the post-war years; one-fifth of all abortions are now performed on schoolgirls. And the spread of diseases showed that 'sexual licence' in Britain was increasing alarmingly in the 12- J 5 age group. 
In 1969 only 483 girls under 16 became pregnant. In the past year J,496 cases have been reported. And the trite figure could be considerably higher, masked  by  the high abortion rate. 1  would like to go on reading right through this sorry report, lt continues: 
There were 50,037 cases of gonorrhoea alone in England this year and again the toll was heaviest on the young. &gt;n a record year, teenagers accounted for I case in  4. 
Even more alarming is that the disease is spreading twice as quickly among teenagers as among adults. 
I commend that report to members of the House who have the time to read it. We were asked last night by honourable members opposite: Should adults be able to read aud look at that which they wish to read and look at whatever they wish to look at and I suppose a short answer is yes, I agree with that, but ] make the point that not all adults have adult mental processes. Literate people expect everybody else to be equally literate and understanding and some corrupt deliberately, as happened in the case that I referred to of the university publication which was sent to me by a parent who picked it up from his secondary school child.  1  would make the point that it is not the university students, in the majority, who prepare and peddle pornography. 
I would be equally strong in my criticism of what I would describe as pictorial pornography and the need for total prohibition.  1  have seen some of the books which have been denied entry into this country - not only books but also films, including television films. Some of these books depict just about every form of sexual deviation one could possibly imagine, including group copulation, copulation between animals and humans, in my view indescribably filthy, always in close-up and, it seems, always in technicolour. I would ask the  House and the Australian  public to consider who are pushing for the abolition of censorship in this country. Let us exclude the sincere, concerned tiny minority of people who are genuine in their attempts. I put to the House that there are 2 categories. There are those who wish to make a profit out of peddling pornography, and I regard them as on no higher level than those who make a living from the earnings of prostitutes. As I said, there is a minority with sincerely held views, but the second group would include some of those. I would include some editors of newspapers, some feature writers - all of them without any responsibility - and as time permits I would like to give a couple of examples to the House of the sort of people who are making a profit out of pornography and the sort of people who  1  think should be exposed and, preferably, prosecuted. in the first instance, I would refer to those film exhibitors who promote pornography and who rely on false advertising to persuade people to go and have a look at films. I understand that in many instances they are opposed to the introduction of an R certificate. They want to present wholesome family entertainment. I am looking now at an advertisement for the Star Theatrette. I do not know whether it is in Melbourne or Sydney. 
 I am informed that it is in Melbourne. This advertisement features a film titled 'Dossier Prostitution': The advertisement states: 
SEE - How they live - Where they come from - Where they work. It brings to life the secret world which surrounds us every day. 
The position regarding that film, which I have not seen but I would say would be pure rubbish, was that there were 3 minutes of explicit prostitution scenes deleted. Would the honourable member say they should be left in? 
Would the other honourable members who support total abolition, such as the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  say that these segments should be left in? There is also an advertisement for the film 'Cover Me Babe', showing at the Albany Theatre, also in Melbourne. The blurb states: 
He turns the girls on, then turns on his camera. There are some things you just don't talk about . . . these people make films about them . . . and leave the wounded behind! 
Three minutes of the film were censored. The deleted passages included group scenes involving 3 couples during sexual intercourse and one of a naked girl masterbating. Would honourable members leave that segment in that film? I am sure I would not. Do not tell me that that has artistic or literary merit, the holy cow of the abolitionists. The other category of persons I would like to refer to are those of the Press all around Australia who are - in some cases, not generally of course - so anxious to abolish censorship. We have had a report by the Minister which referred to the film Like Night and Day'. In his report to the House, and to the public, he said, referring to a scene, that this film:   . . contains a scene which depicts a young woman performing cunnilingus on her sister while at the same time a man has intercourse with the young woman by entering her from behind. 
No newspaper in Australia published that paragraph. Every newspaper in Australia censored this statement by the Minister, including the ones which push the virtues of the abolition of censorship. One newspaper stated that overseas critics have praised this film. Overseas critics - faceless, unnamed authorities. I say: To heck with overseas critics. I suppose the one who has arrived in Australia today or yesterday- 
He is the joint managing director of 'News of the World' in Britain. Would honourable members class him as an overseas critic of authority. He referred to the Minister's attitude as still an awful joke. There is no news of the world in the 'News of the World'; it is a pure scandal sheet. I do not regard him as an authority in this matter. So I ask honourable members opposite: Would they leave this sort of material in films if they were in government? If they were' in government and this was their attitude I would say: God help Australia. The Minister sets out what he believes so I would like to say quickly what 1 believe. We are mostly in total agreement. I believe censorship is necessary, not necessarily' evil. It should be open to public scrutiny. There should be as little as possible within the limits of community standards, but not those limits defined by a vociferous and powerful minority without responsibility.'- 
Any relaxation, whether in the long term policies or on specific, examples, should be based strictly on genuine artistic qualities. No action should ever seek to be justified on the grounds of artistic ' integrity when none exists, and there is' 'only the urge to make a quick dollar. Parents in the community do have a responsibility to impose their own censorship but T believe it is also the Government's job to ' assist in the protection of the community. T believe that pornography and violence;' and the advertising of them, should ' be prohibited. I believe also that references', to the advantages of drug taking should be prohibited and offences for convicted : pedlars made more uniform and realistically severe. I congratulate the Minister' oh' bringing this matter under public scrutiny and the only thing I regret is that we have censored ourselves to 15 minutes each in Which to talk about it. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. ,.' . 
 Has the AttorneyGeneral seen reports in the South Australian Press that an increasing number of migrants are returning to Britain and taking with them a variety of goods still under hire purchase contracts with Australian companies? As such persons make a declaration of ownership when re-entering Britain, is it possible to negotiate some sort of agreement with the British Government to assist in the recovery of such debts? 
-1 would like to take part briefly in this debate. Like the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  1 regard the subject of wheat as something which is a little outside my field. I do not suppose that a single grain of wheat is produced in my electorate; I know that none is grown in the honourable member's electorate. However I have had a view for some time on the problems of the over-production and sale of wheat and I would like to put my view to the House. 
I have not checked it with my colleagues in the Country Party but I am sure that they will go along with me. I think I can speak for a lot of people in my electorate who eat bread and for taxpayers who. in the final analysis, pick up the tab. 1 would not want to appear to be critical of wheat growers because I think that they operate a most efficient industry. They are conscientious and they have a record of co-operation with governments over very many years. 1 do not think that wheat growers are anywhere nearly so badly off as are producers of wool, dairy products, mutton and other products. However I think it is time that someone took a lead in doing something about diversification in the wheat industry. It seems to me that it is total madness to go on producing more and more wheat. Wc have quotas, over-production, a lack of profitability and diminishing returns. If anything ever happened to the International Grains Arrangement I wonder what would happen to the wheat growers. 
I want to say something about the matter of diversification. I would like to refer to the speech that was mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports. The Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  when speaking at the Agricultural Outlook Conference at the Australian National University last February put his finger on the problem. However I would like to see a little more aggression in the treatment of the problem. In opening the Conference the Minister said:  1 can give you an assurance that the Commonwealth Government will continue to work closely with the rural industries in looking fur answers to their problems. We will keep on providing substantial funds for research, for promotion, for extension services, for reconstruction programmes, for stabilisation schemes and other measures. We will vigorously continue our efforts to secure better access to world markets through international negotiation. 
I think that the important words are research' and 'other measures'. The sort of aggressive research and diversification I want to talk about is the possible swing of edible oil seed. It seems to me that in this country we have a tremendously wide range of agricultural conditions from the sub-tropical in Queensland to the very dry areas in South Australia where I come from and areas such as the Mallee which has an extremely low rainfall. But if we specifically exclude those dry areas we have in Australia a suitable climate for producing almost everything. I am thinking of such seed as soya bean, sunflower, peanuts, rape seed and cotton seed. We have a ludicrous situation in that we actually import these products and we import the oil that is made from them. What is even more stupid is that stock feed manufacturers, who earn overseas currency by exporting vegetable protein meal, actually import fish meal and soya bean from which vegetable protein meal is made. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I ask the honourable member for Boothby to relate his remarks to the Bill now before the House. 
I thank you for reminding me,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The way in which I relate my remarks to this Bill is that we are being asked to provide an enormous amount of money to finance- 
We are being asked to provide an enormous amount of money to finance the carry-over stock of the production by wheat growers. I appreciate the support that I am receiving. I am offering a solution. If we can persuade the growers to diversify we will not in the future have to make available this sort of finance. That is the relevance of my remarks. I had referred to the amount of seed which could be produced in this country and which we import quite unnecessarily. I had reached the point of talking about fish oil which is used to make vegetable protein meal. Fish oil is imported and then exported. I have with me figures which relate to the amount of whale and fish oil which is imported free of duty into this country. I think that this is a matter which the Government could look into. These oils are not only imported free of duty but I understand that in America the importation of fish oil has been banned on health grounds. 
Last year Australia imported almost  900,000  gallons of this substance which, according to my calculations, produces  4.000  tons of meal. This is in excess of  10,000  tons of the seed, and the growing of  10,000  tons of the seed would require more than  20,000  acres of land. That is an example of a way in which  20,000  acres of land which is currently producing wheat which we cannot sell could be used to produce edible oil seed which we can sell. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard  4  tables which set out details in relation to imports to Australia and exports from Australia of oil seeds and vegetable oils for the years  1967-68, 1968-69  and  1969-70. 

<graphic href="071131197103164_32_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="071131197103164_33_2.jpg"></graphic>

It is interesting to note that last year Australia exported vegetable oils to the value of only $100,000 and imported oils, including fish oil, to the value of SI 3m. For the same year we exported vegetable seeds to the value of only Sim but we imported almost $10m worth of seed. 1 think most of the export value is in the flour and meal of seeds. Presumably the oil seed is imported anyway. The world position of the producers of oil seed is much more attractive than is the current market position of wheat growers. The United States of America and Canada are the biggest exporters of vegetable oils and meal. The trend is towards the export of the seed. This would suit Australia very well because we could export the seed and the importing countries would produce the oil which in turn would promote their secondary industries. Last year the United States exported soya beans valued at over $1,1 00m. I am not an authority on agriculture but I understand that soya beans could be produced in many areas in Australia which are under irrigation. The United States export of soya beans works out at S2.50 a bushel. The Canadians have doubled their own consumption of rape seed in the last 4 years from 4 million bushels to  8  million bushels and in the same year they have increased exports from  13  million to  22  million bushels. Australia has not done anything at all to increase its exports. 
I want to return briefly to what the Minister for Trade and Industry said at the Agricultural Outlook Conference. In dealing with forecasting he made the point that forecasting is notoriously difficult, as we all know. He said: 
Farmers need it. Rural industry organisations need it. Marketing authorities need it, and so do all those industries that are involved with, and which depend on, the rural industries. Fanners need it because they - must be able to run their operations in a rational, business-like way. I hope all those people who have the task of advising farmers will be helped in their work by the results of this conference. 
I would like to think that perhaps my suggestions will be tried by farmers, and I would like to see this Parliament encourage farmers to produce this sort of crop. The conditions in Australia are ideal. The wheat grower has no need to buy any more plant. All he would need to do would be to adapt his header and other machinery. Perhaps even dairy farmers through co-operation by  6, 8  or  10  of them could plant a few acres of seed and subcontract. I think that rape seed would be suitable for South Australian conditions. All the farmer would need do is to ensure that the crushing mills would be prepared to take his produce. I point out that this industry has an expanding world market. I do not think we can say that about the wheat industry. The edible oil seed definitely has an expanding world market. World production of edible vegetable oils has risen from  16  million tons in  1965  to  19  million tons last year but in Australia production of these types of seeds has increased from only  7,000  tons - I was talking in millions of tons a moment ago - in  1965  to  21,000  tons last year. On my calculations, this is one-thousandth of world production. I do not know whether my figures regarding the wheat industry are accurate, but I understand that we are the second biggest producer of wheat in the world. 
Whatever position we hold, we produce a lot of wheat. When it comes to edible oil seed, our production is negligible in the world scene. Although I do not seek leave to incorporate this table in Hansard, I should like to quote briefly from it because it contains details about countries which import the sort of seed that I claim we can produce in Australia. In the limited time available to me I will confine my remarks to  4  types of seed. In  1969  the European Economic Community countries imported nearly  400,000  tons of rape seed. But what is significant is that Japan imported nearly  300,000  tons of rape seed in that year. In  1969  Japan imported more than  200,000  tons of sunflower seed. It also imported more than  100,000  tons of linseed and nearly  300,000  tons of cotton seed. So it goes on. The situation seems perfectly obvious to me. We are in a close business partnership with Japan, which is a major importer of these types of seed. Why do not we produce this seed? I am totally opposed to arranging people's lives but it seems to me that the ideal situation would be to rearrange the quota system so that areas which because of climatic conditions, are unable to produce edible oil seed - and I should think that areas such as the Mallee and other dry areas in South Australia would not be able to do  so  - receive a higher quota for wheat production and areas where edible oil seed could be produced could receive a lower quota for wheat production. That might be throwing a cat in amongst the pigeons- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I think that the honourable member is getting a little wide of the terms of the Bill. 
I quite agree,  Sir, that  I did get a little away from the question of an advance being made for the sale of wheat, but I think that it is in the interests of the nation as well as of Austraiian wheat growers to suggest that there should be a rethinking of production schedules so that we can produce other crops. It would be stupid for me to say that all wheat growers should abandon production of wheat. As I have just mentioned, some areas are unsuitable for the production of anything else. But areas which are suitable for the production of other crops should be promoted. Farmers should be encouraged to experiment. 
I have made a suggestion about rearranging quotas. Ultimately there could br over-production, even in edible oil seed, and I suppose that some countries in the future - in fact, I believe that occasionally some have done this in the past - dump when they have over-production. But the present indications are that there is a tremendously expanding world market and a healthy demand for oil seed. We ourselves are importing oil seed. If there is a healthy demand for it, 1 think that we should be moving to satisfy that demand, and that is more than one can say about the wheat situation.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I apologise for having strayed slightly from the substance of the Bill, but I took this opportunity to put these views before the Parliament. 1 hope that in the future my views will be supported by those in the community who hold similar views. If the situation continues where we are producing something which we cannot sell, let some of us get in and produce something which we can sell. I support the Bill 

 Mr grassby (Riverina) (5.35)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  we have just heard from the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  a dissertation on oil seed. I might say that i am at one with him when he says that we should be producing more oil seed crops, and 1 even go along with him in promoting the production of rape seed where it can be profitably produced. But apart from that, I. must say that he did put forward a large number of popular myths about wheat and the wheat situation with which I will deal in a moment or two. But at the outset I indicate that my distinguished colleague, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  in his usual masterly fashion dissected the detail of the financial operations of the Australian Wheat Board.  His  suggestion that the Board's operations should be more fully documented for the Parliament is something that would be well worth considering. 1 make this point with some enthusiasm for the reason that it is not often understood in the nation or in the industry just how much the Commonwealth Government is involved in making essential decisions on wheat. In fact, the Commonwealth Government acts as an umbrella under which wheat sales are made by the Board. 
The Commonwealth Government, by this and similar legislation, dictates the size of the wheat ration or quota for the nation. In fact in all cases it dictates the conditions under which we trade, such as the interest rate and the terms of repayment. Therefore, it should be clearly understood by the nation and the industry that the Commonwealth Government has in fact been largely responsible for decisions which I might say have proved to be quite disastrous in recent years. In the very first instance it should be understood that there is no question of taxpayers finding large sums of money in order to subsidise the industry; large sums of money that could be categorised as handouts. This is not the position at all. In fact, the reason for this legislation lies in an anachronism in legislation which should be changed. The Reserve Bank Act provides that loans of the type made to the Board shall not be for more than 1 year. This is a silly provision in the legislation because it is obviously impossible for the Wheat Board to tailor its operations and its receipts and expenditures to comply with that very old provision. The provision should have been repealed when it came before the Parliament, I think last year. It should have been struck out. There was no need for it in relation to this sort of advance. 
The next point I make is that far from providing a handout to an industry, this Bill, as the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  pointed out in his second reading speech, provides that the loan shall be made to the Board at an interest rate, and the interest rate has just been increased. It is 5 per cent, which is more than double what it was when the Government came to power 20 years ago. It might be said: 'Well, things have changed.' Perhaps they have, but I think it should be acknowledged that in some years, wheat growers particularly have to find from their own pockets S50m to meet the Commonwealth's interest charges. So let us have it clearly understood: This is no handout. This is in fact a loan, which is very good business for the Commonwealth. It also adds to the Commonwealth's balance of payments in a most favourable way. So I do not think there need be any apology for this legislation, for this Bill or for the advance to the Board. 
I come now to some of the points which were made by the honourable member for Boothby. He used phrases - and I do not blame him for doing so - which are popular currency in the nation as a whole. He referred to over production of wheat. He used the phrase 'taxpayers pick up the tab'. Of course, he indicated that perhaps wheat growers were not so badly off. Then he talked about diversifying. 1 have no argument about that, but 1 will have a little comment to make on how we should do it. The honourable member for Boothby also indicated that we were one of the great nations in wheat production. We are not a great nation in terms of wheat output. In fact, I think Britain produces about as much wheat as we do. Certainly in terms of total grains the French would produce far more than Austrafia produces. This business of seeing ourselves as a producer of a huge surplus of foodstuffs is just not true. It may have been this sort of national myth which led the former Treasurer  (Mr McMahon)  to make his disastrous decision to limit the amount of money he was going to make available for the crop, thereby forcing rationing and restrictions in the middle of a season. This was one of the major actions of government that has led to the crisis in the countryside. 
Let me direct attention to it once again. The decision was made in panic. Perhaps I can forgive that action, but I cannot forgive the fact that the mistake was compounded for 2 years in a row. In that first year of rationing and quotas we did not reach the national quota that the Government set. But we still had restrictions. In the second year quotas were issued across the nation, which indicated that there would be quite a dramatic  reduction on  a personal basis. Again there was no hope of reaching that quota. For the 2 years that we have had national quotas we have not had a chance of reaching them. Let us now look at what happened in relation to the industry and the decisions that originated in the Treasury. What happened was that the Government panicked, lt made wrong decisions. How wrong they were was disclosed just the other day by the New South Wales Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Geoffrey  Crawford. He said: 
We have  only  152 million bushels  of  wheat in the State  at this time and if  this rate  of  disappearance continues  we  could  end  up next year with a carryover of only 50 million bushels. 
This is  far too low  and  it is  dangerous. 
It is 30 million bushels below what is desirable. The Minister said that all quotas must be abolished in New South Wales this year. He has done this. He made an appeal: 'Please deliver all the wheat for this year and last year. Put it ali in. Let us have it all. We will pay the SI. 10. All the quotas have been set to one side.' In other words, the panic decision of 1969-70 has caught up with us. There is no suggestion of massive over-production in Australia at the present time. Certainly there has to be proper regulation. Nobody quarrels wilh that. But let us be quite clear that the panic decision which brought hardship in the middle of the season should never have been made. This has contributed to the present loss of confidence in collateral in the countryside. 
The honourable member for Boothby said that there is no really great demand for wheat. In the last 12 months we have gone through one of the greatest wheat booms in history. It has never been as good in a whole generation. I do not intend to go into this now, but it has been pointed out by some industry spokesmen that we could have sold a great deal more wheat if our machinery had been adequate. In this instance they were referring to transport. I make the point very clearly and very definitely that we could have sold a great deal more. I do not know whether, if the long awaited letter arrives from China, and the order is large enough, wc will be able to meet it. The matters of being over-produced and having huge carryovers and great stockpiles are myths of the moment and myths of yesterday. 
At a more appropriate moment a little later on 1 would like (o examine just what our situation would be with China. Of course, China is not really there. Its 700 million people are not recognised. They are not there. But if they should happen to be there for the purpose of writing to us and trading with us I am not altogether sure what our situation would be about meeting any major order. I put this forward as a considered comment in relation to the allegations that we have huge unsaleable stockpiles of wheat. This is rubbish. We have not. When we look across the world we see that, quite apart from the fact that both the United Nations and the United States Department of Agriculture have predicted a continuing expansion in food grains - including wheat - from now to the end of the century, in a properly segregated system of selling we would be able to get a greater share of that market. 
The honourable member for Boothby talked about diversifying. I agree with him. This is a good point that he makes. I have no concern about this. What I would say to him is that if the Government is going to say to a wheat grower: 'You are going to diversify out of wheat into something else' it should provide him with an incentive to do so. The Canadians have given a good lead here. What they did when they thought there should have been greater diversification in some of their wheat areas was to provide acreage incentives of up to $10,000 per farm to change. If anyone went on to an Australian farm with a cheque for $10,000 as an incentive the farmer would chase him as a confidence trickster, because our people have never had incentives in that way. If there is to be talk about changing and diversifying there has to be an incentive from the central administration which controls the money, determines the advance and by its overall manipulations determines the net return to the grower. 
I would point out that the money, which has been loaned by the Commonwealth at double the interest rate of 20 years ago, will be repaid with interest and it will not go to the grower. A quarter of it will go to the ramshackle railway systems of the States in many instances. One crop in four of many of the growers in my electorate goes to State railways for transport costs. Wheat has been subsidising State railways systems for 2 generations and more. Let us have it understood that there is no question of this being a hand-out to an industry. The Government is making good profits on it and the States are doing very well. Overseas shipowners have doubled their freights in the last 12 months. We had a wheat boom, and their freights have doubled since March last year. They have done extremely well. 
Under the incredible panic decisions of the central government in this country the wheatgrower has not reaped the benefit at all of the wheat boom across the world. He was forced to sell when he did not want to. He was forced to put wheat aside when he should have been able to deliver it and sell it. The whole administration has been shocking and inadequate and has contributed to the crisis in the countryside. Let us look ahead to what we should be doing. I want to mention 2 points here. 
Firstly, we are going to continue to reside in this region of the world. I do not think there is anywhere else for us to go, and most of us would like to stay. I suggest that we should face up to the realities of the region and of trade particularly. As I suggested before, we should at least open a wheat board office or a trade office in China as a matter of urgency. There is a market there to cater for 700 million people. The entire world is making a rush there at the moment. The Japanese have not quite resolved their diplomatic difficulties but they have got a trade agreement worth about $800m and they have established a trade office there. Is it suggested that Japan has suddenly compromised its high principles by doing this? ls it suggested that Britain, France, Canada and Italy have suddenly compromised themselves in the same way? Of course not. They have recognised the realities of world trade in a trading situation. This should be done by this country in the interests of its people. 
The prospects for trade with China are continuing ones, for various reasons. Certainly we would be on far better' ground to assess what China is going to do in the future if we had our own people on the spot evaluating the situation. It is rather ludicrous that we have to go to our trading rivals when we want on the spot information on what is happening in a major market in our own region of the world. The situation is ludicrous. 
Take the situation with regard to India. India has been importing large quantities of wheat. India has also done extraordinarily well under the much publicised green revolution. Again this is one of those nice, popular myths that we throw around so easily. It has been suggested that because of the green revolution there is no need in future to worry about possible grain sales to India. It is true that in 1968-69 India and Pakistan alone brought about miracles of improvement in their economies, but after a record run of seasons they are still 3.5 million tons of wheat short of their requirements. Their national larder is empty when they had hoped to have 5 million tons in stock so in effect they are 8.5 million tons behind. They were interested in new initiatives from Australia to increase the trade which has  been  static for some years- The Indian Government wanted to do this and awaited an Australian initiative but they were in the middle of a general election and obviously did not want to operate publicly, and direct attention to the shortcomings in their economy. I make no comment on the Government. It has just been returned so I suppose that speaks for itself. 
The other point that I want to make in relation to India is that it has been able to cover some of its deficits under Public Law 480 of the United States Congress which enables the United States to sell primary products under long-term conditions - over 20 years with low interest rates - and accept payment in local currency. This year the United States denied this condition to India and demanded that more than half of the money be found in American dollars. The Indians do not want  to  find  those  dollars and would prefer some new initiative from us. But it cannot come from just the Wheat Board because there has to be reciprocity of trade in an  Overall  way. lt is not a matter of the Wheat Board taking an initiative in this; it is a matter of the Government taking an initiative in an overall trade deal which India desires and which in fact it would be  in  the interests  of  the stability of the region for us to enter into. Here again we see  a  complete lack  of  initiative and a  Complete  lack of recognition of a trading  Opportunity  by the Government. 
So I make the point that there is no validity in the submission by Government supporters that we are over-produced, that there is a tab to be picked up and that the industry is in fact, under this legislation, receiving a handout. It is not. The industry in the future can look forward, I think, to sharing in a world boom. The 55.000 wheat growers throughout Australia deserve something better than dismal rationing. They can have an exciting future based on producing the wheat the market requires, using improved varieties and seeing that their good quality is properly segregated and recognised. We can look to orderly expansion because the world usage will rise and the subsistance farmers of Europe and elsewhere will have gone  before  the century ends. So there is no need for this dismal picture of a very  vital  industry. I would say again that the Government and the Treasury should disabuse their minds of the myths which have dominated them, and if we forgave them for their panic 2 years ago we will not forgive them if they continue to lose the opportunities of world trade that exists at the present time and of which only the Commonwealth can take advantage. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Maisey)  adjourned. 
I address my question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to the activities of so-called demonstrators who yesterday painted slogans on the private homes of employees of both the British and South African Embassies? What action does the Government propose to take to control this form of irresponsible vandalism? Does the legislation currently before the House give the Commonwealth adequate powers to protect the lives and property of such persons? 
I ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether his attention has been drawn to the recent debate in this House on the loan to the Australian Wheat Board and the references to his own speech when opening the Agricultural Outlook Conference this year. Is any action being taken by the Minister's Department, the departments of agriculture in the States or the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to conduct research into and encourage wheat farmers to diversify and to undertake the production and export of other grain? Has the production of edible oil seed, for which there is a world-wide demand and which is imported into Australia in considerable quantities, even been subjected to such an analysis? 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  He was really only shedding crocodile tears and I felt that there was a deep lack of sincerity in what he was saying. 
That is the way I feel about the honourable member. 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Has his attention been drawn to the taxation implications resulting from the purchase by the Australian Council of Trade Unions of Bourke's Store in Melbourne? Will profits from this company be tax free in the hands of  Mr Hawke  and his union in the same way that the Trades and Labour Council of New South Wales is exempt from tax on the profits of radio station 2KY in Sydney? Why should the Australian taxpayer subsidise such activities? 
1 concur with the remarks of the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  in regard to the maiden speech of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  in this House tonight. I agree that it was an excellent speech and I trust that the honourable member for Chisholm will be here to make many more similar speeches. I think his speech has demonstrated a capacity on his part to follow in the steps of his predecessor who I think all honourable members remember with a great dea of affection and respect. I refer to  Sir Wilfrid  Kent Hughes, who died last year. I want particularly to refer to a couple of matters mentioned by the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr F. J. Cairns)  which I think should be noted by honourable members. Firstly, in regard to something which is of interest to all honourable members and to the people of this country  -  I am quite sure that he will not deny this - he said that police are not notorious for telling the truth. 
When the honourable member for Lalor was speaking the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory said 'Hear, hear' and now the honourable member for Prospect confirms that comment. I deplore the fact that a lawyer in this place should adopt such an attitude because. Heaven forbid, one of these days he may even be on the Bench. 
It was him. The .honourable member for Lalor gave us the tired old speech about the unwinnable war in Vietnam. I make the point that the war in Vietnam has been won. This is the reason for the pull-out of our troops. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The war in Vietnam is not the matter under discussion in this debate. 
What the honourable member for Lalor said which I thought was relevant was that there is no right of free speech or assembly in Australia. 
The honourable member says that is right. I say it is wrong. Who could have had a better go at abusing the law in this country than the honourable member for Lalor? I want to quote an article which appeared in the Adelaide Advertiser' on 14th April 1970. Under the heading  'Dr Cairns  Gives Views' on Law" it reads: 
The Victorian  chairman  of the -Vietnam Moratorium Campaign  (Dr Cairns, MHR)  told more than 1,000 Melbourne University ' students yesterday that they need not consider 'that the campaign had to be kept within the law. 
I believe that a citizen has the right, to break an objectionable law',  Dr Cairns  said. 
I suppose that means we have :a right to break this law or any law. 
Who considers the law to be objectionable? Will it -be the .honourable member for Lalor, the, honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster)  -  --rr- 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the establishment of a Soviet Russian military base in Ceylon? In view of the rapidly expanding Soviet activities in the Middle East, North Africa and other countries in the Indian Ocean area, is this not further evidence of the Soviet intention to establish itself as the new colonial power east of Suez? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the desperate plight of soldier settlers in the zone 5 area in the south east of South Australia? Is the Minister in a position to initiate any negotiations with the State Government to resolve this problem? 
Before I address myself to the subject that I want to talk about I take this opportunity of congratulating the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who made a satisfactory and excellent contribution to the debate and revealed an understanding of the position in southern South Africa. The honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  should understand that the honourable member for Lyne was not criticising the church, as was suggested, but was criticising certain people in the church, namely, the World Council of Churches and the Australian Council of Churches. The essence of his contribution was that they had all forgotten how to preach the Gospel. 
Mf McLEAY - It is a completely truthful statement. I thought that the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  made some worthwhile points in his speech, particularly when he referred to the need of all conscientious members for research officers. I support this suggestion. I do not say that members on this side claim all knowledge of all things. Obviously some members on the other side claim some knowledge of some things. But this is one matter on which we agree. I have a recollection of his reference to the need for help in our duties as ombudsmen, and tonight what I want to talk about is something that would fall within the duties of an ombudsman. I shall speak about the Commissioner of Trade Practices and resale price maintenance. I will be rather critical of some of the actions of the Commissioner of Trade Practices, realising that this is a body set up by my Government. 
I deplore, as do I think most people in the Australian community, the way that  Mr Hawke  and the Australian Council of Trade Unions by the use of industrial action have achieved what amounts to a resale price maintenance. I wonder whether the Australian community realises that there is a strong likelihood that the ACTU in its takeover of Bourke's depart ment store will not be paying any income tax. This seems to me to be completely unfair and unreasonable and it places the ACTU in an unfair position in respect of the rest of the trade. I believe also that certain radio stations in Australia owned by the Australian Labor Party and trade union organisations do not pay income tax. I am looking forward to receiving a reply from the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  to a question I have asked on this particular matter. 
I deplore the unions' attitude in relation to compulsory unionism, because that is what it amounts to, in the retail trade in Australia. I know that at least one large departmental store in Sydney was threatened just before Christmas by the Transport Workers Union with a denial of supplies delivered to and from that store unless compulsory unionism was introduced. I know that at this very moment in Victoria carpet factories are under the same threat. I am reminded of what happened on Kangaroo Island, in South Australia, 6 months ago, to a farmer who was not prepared to be bludgeoned into using union shearers. Labour was withheld from those people who were transporting his goods. He could have starved for all the union leaders cared. 
On the question of restrictive trade practices I feel that there is a likelihood of a rather dangerous partnership being formed. On the one hand there are the militant unions; on the other hand there is the ACTU and  Mr Hawke-  and I do not know how one would describe him; and on the third hand, if one can have a third hand, there are high taxes. It seems to me that when there is an amalgamation of all these factors it becomes increasingly difficult for small businesses to survive, lt is about small businesses that I want to address a few remarks. In talking about small businesses and what happens in South Australia I should point out that there is an extra compound in South Australia and that is the Early Closing Act which was introduced by the South Australian Labor Government. This Act will assist in putting many small businesses in the metropolitan area out of business. 
It is in the context of the furniture industry that I wish to speak and I refer to the Third Annual Report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices for the year ended 30th June 1970. On page 4 of that report he dealt at length with the success that the Commission had achieved in the last 12 months in dismantling certain trade agreements. In particular he referred to an agreement in Tasmania between the Australian Retail Furnishers' Association (Tasmanian Division) Ltd and the manufacturers of furniture in Tasmania. He said: 
The essence of the agreement was that members of the one association would deal only with the members of the other association. Anyone not  a  member of the appropriate association could be subjected to a trade boycott. This happened to  a  long established retailer in respect of his Tasmanian and his. mainland supplies. The retailer had left the association after it fined him for breaking its rules by advertising the amount of his reductions at his annual sales. 
After consultations with the Commissioner the associations terminated the reciprocal trading agreement and the boycott was lifted. Presumably this was in the public interest, because the expression 'public interest' appears throughout this report. I want particularly to refer to what is happening in South Australia at present because we have the same sort of situation where a South Australian retailer has been excluded from membership of the furniture association there. As a result the Commissioner of Trade Practices apparently is investigating that agreement with a view to dismantling it just as he did in Tasmania. 
I have a list of questions that were compiled by the manufacturers of furniture in South Australia. This list of 35 questions has been directed to persons in the trade in South Australia but not to the secretaries of the associations. The most interesting question is the question which is numbered 17. Factories in South Australia have been asked: 
From what has been stated in the Press is it likely that any of the rules between the 2 bodies may be changed to allow retailers to use the word discount' in advertising? 
From this I would interpret that the Commissioner of Trade Practices has seen Press reports of what have been supposed to be false and misleading advertising about discounting and as a result he wishes to move against the association. I thought it would be interesting to find out just what was reported in the Press, because the furniture associations, both wholesale and retail, have approached me and are anxious to have this matter discussed openly. I find this difficult because I have a longstanding connection with the industry. This is a matter for an ombudsman but I believe I have an obligation to the people of Australia and to the Parliament to bring this matter out into the open even if I am accused of having some interest which, in fact, I really do not have. However, the first Press reference appeared in January in the 'Advertiser' in South Australia. The article refers to a general meeting of the Retail Furniture Association of South Australia which expelled a member of the Association for allegedly intentionally breaching the group's rules on ethical advertising. My understanding of the position is that the report is true. Further on in the same report the person managing the particular store was asked to comment and he said: 
I don't think this is freedom. I think we should enjoy the same freedom to discount as these supermarkets that have just cut their prices. 
It is the issue of discount which is relevant. That person went on to say that the store had been fined $2,000 by the Association for similar offences over the past 8 years. It is my understanding that this is not true and if an investigation is being held it is based on an inaccurate report. In a subsequent reference in the same newspaper the question of discounting of prices once again came up and the store claimed that because it was discounting it had been virtually thrown out of the Association. I asked the Association to give detailed reasons for the expulsion of this store from the Association. There were several reasons. One was that an article had been advertised but misrepresented. There was no question of discounting there. Another reason was that the store had bought articles outside the terms of the agreement. The store denied this but had subsequently been proved wrong. The store was fined on those 2 counts. 
The third reason is really the nub of this whole problem. Some time in the future we will have to examine carefully what the Commissioner of Trade Practices is doing about what he has described as discounting because I claim that this is not discounting. Honourable members will recall the old days when washing machines and refrigerators were sold at inflated prices and inflated trade-ins were allowed. That was not discounting. In the instance I refer to the firm purchased an article of furniture which normally had a mark-up of  42i  per cent. I can assure honourable members that that is not a very large mark-up these days in any sort of business. On top of that mark-up had been added an amount of $50. This is known in the trade as jacking up the retail price. 
The advertisement to which the Association objected was that this piece of furniture could be purchased for $50 off the marked price upon trading-in a similar piece of furniture. In effect anyone who went along to buy that article and traded an old article ended up paying the retail price and the store still had the traded article to sell. These are the grounds upon which the Retail Furniture Association of South Australia moved against that store. The Association claims - I support its claim - that that is not discounting. I suggest to the House that if the proposed investigation proceeds and the agreement is dismantled in South Australia, as it has been in Tasmania, the public interest is not being looked after. In fact there are suggestions of personal connections between officers of the Commissioner of Trade Practices and the complainant. I trust that these suggestions are incorrect. In point of fact there has been no contact between the Commissioner and the secretary - between the 2 parties concerned - as there should have been in accordance with the terms of the relevant Act. 
I wish now to refer to the report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices. If the honourable member for Sturt pays attention he will learn something because this affects our future retailing in this country. In his report the Commissioner refers to the opportunities that stores, associations and companies have to appeal to the Trade Practices Tribunal. The Commissioner said: 
Although businessmen assert that their restrictions are not contrary to the public interest - 
The term 'public interest' is the key - they desire if possible to avoid becoming involved in Tribunal proceedings, with the attendant publicity and expense . . . 
As far as associations are concerned, including the one I have been talking about, they are very happy to have this matter discussed publicly. There is no question of wanting any secrecy about this matter. The subject of the expense involved is another matter. Without doubt it is an expensive project to go through the forms of appealing to the Tribunal. I believe it is a form of blackmail which is available to practise against corporations and associations. The Commissioner has a staff of 94. It cost the Australian public $750,000 last year to maintain the Commissioner of Trade Practices. It is completely unfair to expect small companies and associations to spend enormous amounts of money in professional representation, as is set out in the Commissioner's report. 
I think the question of discounting is a relevant matter too. I want to refer very quickly to a couple of definitions which appear in a very good article in the issue of 'The Bulletin' of 23rd January 1971. That article dealt with the announcement by Woolworths Ltd and G. J. Coles and Co. Ltd that they were in the interests of the public reducing the prices on grocery lines. Discounting was denned in that article as: 
Discounting is merely a method of trying to increase the volume of sales by reducing the retail profit margin and thus, hopefully, finishing further ahead than the more conventional retailer. 
By adding discounts, double discounts and super discount specials to the confusion, the big chainstores ostensibly are motivated by a concern for. the family budget - 'Your total food bill must cost less'. . . 
The manager of the Queensland Retail Traders Association said - I agree with him - that the announcement is nothing more than a promotional gimmick. Another retail spokesman said that the announcements were most ill-advised because they create the impression that the companies concerned and in effect all grocers have been overcharging during the past years. I have not sufficient time to read other extracts from that article but the comments are all along those lines. 
In another part of the report of the Commissioner of Trade Practices the Commissioner suggested that he should have similar powers to those of the Tariff Board, and he compared the activities of those bodies. I would say there is no comparison whatever between the activities of the Commissioner of Trade Practices and the Tariff Board. The Tariff Board is answerable to this Parliament but the Commissioner is not. Honourable members will recall that since the report of the Tariff Board on the cherry industry was presented to Parliament a number of questions have been asked and answers given in this House. I make the point that the danger is that the Commission is likely to destroy the smaller associations and the smaller producers first. If the Commissioner of Trade Practices wishes to do something effective I suggest that he take on the really big boys. in relation to the restrictive Trade Practices Act I would like to refer to resale price maintenance. I have not heard any reference in this place to what happened in Great Britain in  1962  under the equivalent of her restrictive Trade Practices Act when an agreement, similar to the one I have been talking about, was brought up for consideration and judgment. In the Restrictive Trade Practices Court in that country judgment was banded down by the  President, Sir Stanford  Cooper,  Mr Justice  Buckley,  Mr W.  L. Heywood and  Mr D.  V. House after the court had considered the matter from June until October. At the end of a very long judgment - this illustrates why we need to have research - on an agreement between book publishers and booksellers - I suggest we could substitute just about any other trade - they said: 
The detriments to the public which the registrar says arise, from the agreement are (1) that it reduces the incentive to publishers and booksellers to keep down costs; (2) that it deprives booksellers of opportunities to dispose of stock at their discretion and so increases their overheads, and deprives the public of opportunities to buy more cheaply; (3) that by preventing price competition it keeps prices up; . . . (S) that by protecting margins it compels the public to pay more for books than would otherwise be the case. Of these alleged detriments, (3) and (S) are, in our view, for reasons already given, generally speaking, the opposite of the tuth. . . . As to (1) we have already stated that the publishing trade is a competitive one- 
I would like to know any trade in Australia which is not competitive - and we think that publishers have a high degree of incentive - to keep down costs. The profits earned by stockholding booksellers are modest, and the margins on which they trade are relatively small. They have a strong incentive, for these reasons, to keep their costs as low as possible. We do not think that the public suffers any detriment by reason of any such reduction of incentive as is suggested. 
Finally, in the last paragraph of the judgment the learned judges said: 
We will, therefore, declare that the Net Book Agreement is not contrary to the public interest .. . 
I put the view that the agreements about which I have been speaking are not contrary to the public interest, and  1  trust that the Commissioner of Trade Practices will instruct his officers, instead of skulking like rats in cheese, to come out into the open and discuss this question with the professional secretaries of the  2  associations and act in accordance with the instructions laid down by the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. In view of the Government's call for Australian industry to lift its rate of productivity and with the background of rapid increases in wages and holidays, a proposed reduction in the working week to 35 hours and a monumental loss of man hours following irresponsible strike action, will the Government give early and favourable consideration to providing some positive incentives to help industry to achieve this objective? Will the Government consider the need to apply taxation benefits enjoyed by the primary sector to the commercial and industrial communities? I refer to such benefits as an allowance for obsolescence of buildings, a reduction in company tax, which is now the highest in the world, and a reduction in interest rates. 
I will take the time of the House for only a few moments. I should like to say to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that he is not the only one who suffered under the Japanese. Many people suffered under the Japanese, and there are many people in Australia whose loved ones suffered under the Japanese. I take the view that the Japanese must be given the opportunity to defend themselves. I have no particular love for the Japanese. 
As I have said, 1 will take the time of the House for only a few moments. What I have to say has nothing to do with wheat, wool or the Japanese. In fact, normally I would raise this matter at question time, but I think there is a very good chance that I might not get the call to ask a question at question time tomorrow because I was given the call to ask a question today. In view of the fact that we have only a few days in which to ask questions and to receive answers, and in view of the fact that this may be the only opportunity to speak in an adjournment debate, I wish to raise a small matter which I think is probably of significant national importance and which I would hope the relevant Minister will consider. I am not even sure which Ministry has the responsibility for civil defence, but I believe that it is the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth). 
The question refers to civil defence, and I ask the relevant Minister - whether it be the Minister for Social Services or the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  - to have a look at this problem and I hope he will give me a reply before the Parliament rises. I am referring to a rather odd problem which will concern Australia only in times of national emergency. I refer to the civil fire brigades of the States of Australia and, in particular, to the couplings of the instruments that are used in cases of fire. As I understand the position in South Australia, the couplings that are used to connect the water supply to the fire appliances are measured in terms of the number of revolutions which the couplings are turned. In South Australia the couplings are turned 1  i  times. 
I thank the honourable member for the interjection. 'Screw thread' is the technical name. In South Australia the couplings are turned  H  times in order to connect them to the water supply. I understand that in Victoria they are turned 5 times and in New South Wales 7 times. This seems to be an almost laughably unimportant subject to be talking about, but I put it to the House and to the people of this country that this matter would be important in the event of a national disaster. For example, there could be a serious fire in Melbourne in which the whole of the city could be under threat. Such a threat could extend into the suburbs of Melbourne. If this happened there would be no way in the world that fire appliances from South Australia or New South Wales could be used to assist the Victorians in putting out such a fire. The honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh),  who is interjecting, should speak up so that I can hear him. My experience of his interjections suggests that what he is saying is completely juvenile and incoherent. 
This is an important matter. Let us take Mildura as an example - some honourable member in this House represents the city of Mildura. Let us assume that there is a disastrous fire in Mildura and that city does not have enough fire appliances to fight the fire. Because of the differences in couplings fire appliances from Renmark, which is across the border, would be unable to assist in fighting that fire. The same thing would apply to the city of Wentworth. Likewise, if Victorian border towns such as Dimboola and Nhill had a fire the fire brigade from Bordertown in South Australia would be unable to help to fight the fire because the couplings are of the wrong size. I heard about this problem only an hour or so ago and I believe it is sufficiently important to bring before this Parliament. 
I realise that we have the problem of State governments but overriding this is the national interest. There is what is known as an international coupling. I ask the Parliament and the various governments of Australia to give serious consideration to introducing the international fitting, which I believe should be fitted to every fire appliance in Australia. The Commonwealth has an interest in the airports of Australia. The couplings at Adelaide Airport are international couplings which embody an instantaneous fitting. I understand that the South Australian Fire Brigade has spare couplings which could be used at Adelaide Airport in a time of emergency. I do not know what the position is at other airports in Australia. 1 put to the House a situation that could arise where a jumbo jet crashed at, for example, Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. The local authorities would be unable to assist in putting out a resultant fire simply because their fire brigade fittings are of 1874 vintage. This matter is a long way out of my sphere of interest. It is something which I would normally bring up at question time. However, there may be no opportunity to bring it up again because there may be no more debates this session on the motion that the House adjourn. Therefore I have raised this matter tonight. I ask the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay),  who is at the table and who is listening so attentively, to take this matter to his colleague, the Minister for Social Services, who I believe administers this department and ask him to attempt to persuade the States to introduce international standard couplings in fire brigades. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
How many sizes ot tap threads are in use by civil authorities in Australia? 
What efforts are being made to achieve standardisation of couplings among fire brigades and civil defence units? 
What priority does this project have in civil defence planning? 
I was interested to listen to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  I did not really expect that in the first contribution I would make in this House since returning from overseas I would have to speak about Communists and Communist countries but apparently he chose to bring it up. The honourable gentleman is quite incorrect in his references to the agreement and the letter from which he quoted. I have a copy of the letter with me and the relevant clause reads: 
It is not the present intention of Qantas that any of the equipment is either principally for use in ... or principally for use by any other nation engaged in armed conflict with the armed forces of the United States. 
There is no preclusion whatever of the use of Boeing aircraft in or out of a Communist country. I think the honourable gentleman mentioned the United Arab Republic and it is on public record that Qantas now goes into Cairo with Boeing aircraft. In fact, I had a rather unpleasant experience over Moscow airport when the wheels of the Soviet aircraft in which I was flying would not come down. My wife said to me: 'That will make good headlines back in Australia - "Reds get McLeay"'. Really what the honourable gentleman is saying is inaccurate for we are not precluded from doing these things. In point of fact we travelled in Japanese piloted but Russian owned aircraft from Moscow to Tokyo and I believe that at some point of time within the next 12 months the Japanese will be flying their own aircraft from Moscow to Tokyo and return and these will be Boeing aircraft. 
Anybody can do it. We can do it. This is the point I wish to make but I have not too much time. Reference was made to pilots and flying experience in the company. Captain Ritchie, the General Manager of Qantas, to my knowledge flew aircraft before the war, during the war and after the war and must have logged thousands of hours. I thought the speech of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  was a very good contribution to the debate. It was his second speech today and in my view they were both first class speeches and showed a good understanding of the issues. I congratulate him on what he had to say. He dealt with many of the points with which I will not have time to deal. The speech of the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  who has in his electorate the Mount Isa area, was something of an interesting Fitzpatrick travelogue. I enjoyed it as did other honourable members but I would point out to him that his impressions were not necessarily universal. He complained about the quality of overseas employees of Qantas. I have not had the experience that he has had, nor has the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  but it is not impossible that one would have that sort of experience because Qantas employs indigenous people in other countries and there is no way in the world that one can make a Japanese or Chinese look and sound like an Australian. That is the simple answer to that complaint of the honourable member. 
He also referred at length to hotel bookings. This is a problem we all have when we travel overseas. I had the same experience. I would point out to him that bookings are made on an agency basis. Hotel bookings in Britain are made by BOAC, but not one of the bookings that I made was confirmed when I got there. We cannot blame Qantas for this. 
The same thing happens with the agency system in the United States. The honourable member referred to the profitability of Qantas, and I think that I should put the record straight in this regard. He said that Qantas' profitability is guaranteed by the Government, and he referred to the protection which Qantas receives. I think I should remind the honourable member and the House that Qantas receives protection only from other Australian companies. Qantas has to compete in international aviation with approximately 20 other very tough operators. So there is really no comparison to be made there. 
I must confess that I had some trouble in following the remarks of my very good friend the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  As I recollect, he sought from me some information about interest rates. Of course, the point is that the average interest rate applying to these loans is slightly in excess of 7 per cent. I am sure that the honourable member will know from experience in his profession, as I do from my business experience, that one cannot raise money in Australia at an interest rate of 7 per cent. I was rather surprised that he went on to say that it was a very favourable rate, which rather nullified his criticism in that regard. He said that he was mystified and had an uneasy feeling. He said that he did not understand the clauses covering interest rates, but in the same breath he said that it was a very favourable rate. 
As 1 said, 1 had some difficulty in following what the honourable gentleman had to say. I think that the contribution made by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  was meaty, and I would like to have the time to deal with all of the points that he made. He commenced by expressing extreme dissatisfaction with Qantas, and I think he will agree that he spent most of his speech in dealing with historical matters, in dealing with the past. In the first part of his speech, at any rate, he dealt with the Australian aircraft manufacturing industry. 
Yes, but we are talking about Qantas, and I am saying that the honourable gentleman spent most of his time talking about the manufacturing industry and referring to retrenchments in that industry as well as in Qantas and layoffs generally. Once again I would say that this position is by no means confined to Qantas; it is universal. I had an opportunity to visit the BAC factory in the south of England and also the Fokker factory in Amsterdam. As I recollect, there was only one completed aircraft at the BAC factory, and I think there were 3 or 4 completed aircraft at the Fokker factory. The lay-offs at those 2 manufacturing plants have been absolutely immense in number. This point should be considered in relation to what the honourable member for Newcastle had to say. He also said that there were no co-production arrangements, as I think he described them. I would take issue with him on that point because it is simply not correct. He will remember that the Australian defence industries mission and an interdepartmental committee visited the United States in 1970. Without going into too much detail, I can tell the honourable member, if he does not already know, that Boeing has established a flow of offset work into Australia, the value of which is currently approximately $3.8m, and it is proposing substantial additional orders. The Bell Helicopter Company and Hawker Siddeley Aviation have also agreed to place some offset work in Australia. But the problem is that many of these proposals have been rejected because there are unacceptable financial penalties involved; the proposals are just not profitable. 
I also recognised the good old socialist dogma coming out when the honourable member for Newcastle said: 'We will force the Australian airline industry to come to terms with the manufacturing industry'. I think this is where there is a very big point of difference between the Government and the Opposition. The Opposition will force people to do things. The honourable gentleman, as did other honourable members, made a point about the London South East Asia arrangements which have been made by BOAC. I think it is unfair criticism to say that we should have got into that business years ago. It is a tough business, and negotiating with these people is very tough work, as the honourable member for Newcastle certainly will know. In this regard I would refer honourable members to last year's annual report by Qantas, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Adelaide. It indicates that the company has been well aware of this problem and that it has been trying to crack that route for some time. I will briefly read into Hansard the relevant paragraph in the report dealing with this question. It states: 
Of increasing concern is the competition being experienced west of Singapore and Hong Kong from non-scheduled charter operators. These operations have greatly affected our Kangaroo route revenue. It is expected that the introduction of 'Group 40' fares from 1 April 1971 will help to win back some of this traffic. There is, however, a definite need for a low-priced individual excursion fare for travel between Australia and the United Kingdom and Continental Europe, ft is proposed to press for a new class of fare of this type, for travellers who meet certain requirements, when the IATA traffic conferences meet in September this year to negotiate fares to be applied from 1 April 1972. 
I mention that to indicate that the company is well aware of the problem, and I am quite sure that the Government and its negotiators are well aware of it and have been doing everything possible to overcome it. The question of retrenchment has been fairly heavily canvassed. One of the problems in this regard is the way this matter has been reported in various places. Reports have referred to the retrenchment of 138 pilots. There are 138 people involved, but they are not all pilots. There are 96 pilots and 42 cadets. It is true that the services of the 42 cadets have been terminated, but these cadets have completed their training. They have a licence which indicates that they have reached the minimum commercial flying standards. I point out that 31 of these cadets have been offered positions with Qantas in the air control section. I forget whether the honourable member for Newcastle went through the list of pilots who have been retrenched, but I point out that 5 of them have gone to the Department of Civil Aviation, 10 to the Services, 5 to other airline companies and 10 have volunteered to become stewards in order to stay with the company. Two are in the cargo section and another 35 have gone into the general aviation field and are receiving various rates of pay, 3 are undergoing national service and we are not sure what has happened to the other 13; they have not been in touch with anybody. Nobody is more concerned about this matter than Government members. Only today there came to my attention the case of a war widow in my electorate whose son is one of the cadets who have been retrenched. There will be rather a helpless feeling until such time as we can have this cadet placed elsewhere. 
On this question of Qantas losses and retrenchments, I think it should be made known that it is Qantas' problem, not ours, but the problem is confronting other international airlines. I have 3 examples of this. Pan American World Airways flies a greater number of aircraft than are flown by all the European countries combined. Last year it incurred a loss of $46m and made 5,000 retrenchments. Trans World Airlines Pty Ltd had a loss of $64m and made 3,000 retrenchments. American Airlines Inc. incurred a loss of $26m and made 1,000 retrenchments. We are not sure yet whether Qantas has reached the loss level but I think that the company is acting responsibly. 
I think it is very important for responsible members of this Parliament to realise that in attacking or appearing to be attacking the Government over the operations of Qantas they are in fact attacking the nation's flag carrier because the 2 are synonymous. The Australian public does not make any distinction between the two. In answer to the question as to who should run Qantas I say that Qantas should be left alone to run Qantas. It has operated profitably since 1935 with the exception of one year. I do not think anybody has mentioned in the debate that the purchase of Qantas was made by  Mr Chifley  as the head of a Labor government which was in office. Let us not knock the principle of Qantas. Its shares are wholly owned by the Commonwealth, but Qantas operates as a separate entity. J think it should be left alone to operate under its existing management. The Government takes a part in its affairs only when it comes to such matters as negotiating loans, arranging agreements, making charter arrangements and so on. 
It is rather difficult to understand the Opposition's attitude in criticising Qantas because it is not making a profit or it may not make a profit. I wonder what has happened to the old Socialist philosophy of the Opposition. I thought 'profit' was a dirty word to the Opposition. Perhaps it is worth quoting a couple of figures in this regard. In 1935 the paid up capital of Qantas was less than a quarter of a million dollars. It is now almost $40m. The operating profit in 1935 was $22,000; last year it was $13m. The net profit in 1935 was $17,000; last year it was $8m. Who can say that a company which operates on such a basis is not soundly managed and run? It is ridiculous to suggest that. Just to draw a comparison, although comparisons are odious, I would point out that last year the British Overseas Airways Corporation made a net profit of only a few hundred thousand dollars more than Qantas. 
I would have liked to take up the question of defence which was raised by the honourable member for North Sydney, but time does not permit me to do so in detail. However, I would point out that Qantas has at its own expense purchased 21 Boeing 707 aircraft which can be converted in 2 hours to defence capability aircraft, that is, aircraft capable of carrying tanks, guns and men. The Qantas workshops and hangars are the most modern in the southern hemisphere and perhaps more modern than any in Europe. With the possible exception of the United States, they are the most modern in the world. I am quite sure that when the Fill aircraft finally comes to Australia a lot of the technological abilities of the Qantas staff will be useful for servicing parts of that aircraft. 
Getting back to the financial situation, I  point out that the assets of Qantas when the Government took the company over totalled $5m. Today the assets are $245m. Surely no-one will say that the people operating this company are not doing it properly and well. The question of fares is relevant to a discussion of this Bill. In 1950 the Qantas economy fare between Sydney and London was $585. This year it will be $652 after the increase. The fare in 1950 represented 34 weeks of the average male rate of salary. Today a person can go to London for 9 weeks of the average male salary. 
In the teeth of all the increases, yes. Qantas has paid $23m in taxes to the Commonwealth since its inception. The dividend to the Commonwealth - because it is wholly owned by the Commonwealth - is somewhere around $30m. 
Yes but honourable members opposite are doing their very best to destroy confidence in Qantas at a time when it needs confidence and public support more than anything. Qantas has operated without any subsidy over these years. It has been a tremendous earner of foreign exchange. Last year it earned $140m. If one were to take a statistical summary one would find that Qantas is ninth in the list of industries earning overseas income for Australia. There are many other points which could be made. For example, Qantas spends over $8m in overseas countries advertising Australia. It advertises itself, too, but it advertises Australia as well. It is the nation's flag carrier. Obviously if it did not spend that money someone else would have to spend it. 1 imagine that that would be the Australian Tourist Commission. In my view Qantas has a tremendous story to tell. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of theHouse of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of Australia respectively showeth: 
It is obvious the people of Australia are vitally concerned about the welfare of some nine million East Pakistan refugees 'hat have crossed the border into India. Alsothey are equally concerned about the desperate plight of millions of displaced persons in East Pakistan, many of whom are worseoff than the refugees, as they are not even receiving relief supplies. The involvement of the Australian is evidenced by their willingness to contribute substantial funds to voluntary agencies, to assist their work in these countries. 
As some twenty million refugees and displaced persons are today facing acute problems of hunger and privation - nutrition and child family problems - ultimate famine and death on an unprecedented scale - the Commonwealth Government must plan to come to their assistance in a more sacrificial way. 
Your petitioners therefore most humbly pray that in tackling these great human problems in Bengal, by far the greatest this century, the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, will request that a special meeting of Cabinetbe called to provide$10m for relief purposes in India and East Pakistan and a further $50m over three years to help rehabilitate the. refugees in East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 Mr Speaker,  I thought that I would take part in this debate tonight not because I claim to have any great knowledge of Aboriginal affairs or indeed that I have had vast experience among Aborigines, but because I believe that I represent the average typical urban white Australian. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Are all owners and operators of commercial radio stations in Australia subject equally to company tax and other Federal charges. 
If not, which stations are exempt and why. 
Are these stations formed as proprietary companies. 
Who controls these organisations. 
1 wish to take part in this adjournment debate briefly because of the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  I do not know whether honourable members opposite have been grinning and smirking because they think he is funny or because they feel uncomfortable. I would hope it is because they feel uncomfortable. I have never, as long as I can remember, apart from the 2 occasions we have witnessed in the chamber today, ever heard an ex-serviceman of the war in which I took part criticise anybody else for lack of service. 
It is something which is never done, particularly when the people criticised are under age. I want to be completely dissociated from the remarks and the ravings of the honourable member for Sturt. 1 feel some shame that we served in the same Service. It so happens that this morning the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  made what I thought was a scandalous, personal attack upon the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch).  I thought that if we were going to talk in this Parliament about war service I would check some of the records. Unfortunately, the comments made by the honourable member for Wills will not go on the record because they were ruled out of order. I take it that Hansard does not keep such records. I have to rely on memory and what appears in the Press tonight. In tonight's Melbourne 'Herald'  Mr Whitlam  is reported as stating - we all remember that he said this: 

 Mr Bryant is one of the  few MHRs who  have  been decorated for military service. 
Perhaps that is so. I checked the Commonwealth Parliamentary Handbook and I could not find any record of any decoration. So I take it that the reference is to some sort of long service record. If we are going to talk about records and decorations let us think what a decoration really is. I do not want to get down to personalities either, but T hope that the honourable member for Wills- 
I do not want to. After the ravings of the honourable member for Sturt one feels impelled to defend people who are too sensitive to defend themselves. 
The honourable member for Corio interjects. I do not remember seeing any record of service in his details. As I said, the honourable member for Wills attacked in a most scandalous way the Minister for Labour and National Ser- vice. He said things which I am sure he did not mean and which, unfortunately, will never be recorded. The honourable member's own record of service commenced in 1934 in the Citizen Military Forces. I notice that it was not until June 1945 that he left the country. From my recollection the war ended in October 1945. So I say to the honourable member: Do not set yourself up as a great hero and attack anybody else, especially someone who was under age in the last war.' It so happens that the Minister for Labour and National Service rendered national service. He completed it in the mid-1950s at the University of Melbourne. Subsequently he joined the University of Melbourne Squadron and he is still on the reserve. 
Someone was critical of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown).  Let us place on record the fact that the honourable member volunteered. At this moment he is still on the Naval Volunteer Reserve. I took out some figures- (Opposition members interjecting) 
Honourable members opposite are ho-ho-ing. I do not see them rushing to the colours. In the Second World War 38 members from our side of the House enlisted. Thirty of the 38 served overseas. Seventeen members from the Opposition side enlisted and 11 served overseas. 
I am pleased to hear the honourable member for Robertson interjecting because I commend him. He is the only one I can find who rendered any service and I congratulate him for it. It would be foolish of anybody to be critical of the honourable member for Robertson because he could not serve in the Second World War. How could he? The war was over while he was still a child. The same thing applies to the Minister for Labour and National Service and other young honourable members of our side of the House. It does not do credit to anybody to attack them in the way they have been attacked. Of these younger honourable members, according to the Parliamentary Handbook, five have rendered service since the war compared with one honourable member from the Opposition side. 
I do not pretend to have done any better research than what is possible in the Parliamentary Handbook. If the honourable member has done any military service he is too ashamed to put it in the handbook. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  talked about the decoration of the honourable member for Wills. I hope that the honourable member for Wills will tell us what it is. Let me place on record tonight that as far as I can determine 6 decorations were awarded to Government supporters for bravery in the field. That is what a decoration is for; it is not awarded for sitting on your behind back at Fort Largs or somewhere else. There was one decoration awarded to an Opposition member. This was received by the honourable member for Sturt, who was mentioned in despatches. I congratulate the honourable member on his war service, but it must have affected him somehow or other because he is not behaving in the same way these days. 
I trust that in future honourable members opposite will leave others alone and will not discuss war service. If honourable members opposite want to match their war service collectively or individually with that of Government supporters, the record is there for them to see. We will match our record with theirs. 1 deplore any person who has served in a war criticising anybody who did not, whatever his reason. I hope that honourable members opposite do not ever do it again. 
That is the point. The trouble with honourable members of the Opposition is that they read Press speculation and regard it as fact. In the last 24 hours, approaches have been made by the British Government to this Government. But no statement has been made on this matter. So I reject the criticisms of the honourable member for Newcastle. He also gave his understanding of the unusual matter of public importance raised by the Opposition. I will read it because I think it suits the Government parties very well. It reads: 
The need for an even-handed  2-airline policy. 
That is what we have. As I remember what the honourable member said, his interpretation of this matter of public importance is that TAA should be given similar opportunities to those given to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. I think the honourable member for Adelaide implied that if ever the Australian Labor Party becomes the Government he will bring the big stick down on Ansett. I would like to have that statement clarified, if it is possible. I agree that it is difficult to dissect the figures in relation to Ansett Transport Industries Ltd. The figures pertaining to that company are its own business. The subsidiaries are all mashed up together in transport operations, television 
Whether they should or should not be is its own business. If the honourable member looks at the 'Financial Review' of 8th March last he will find a very good article which peers behind these figures. He will find that the percentage of profit to capital in relation to TAA is 42.S per cent and in relation to Ansett Transport Industries it is 38.6 per cent. That does not sound to me like the activities of an air company which is victimised by the Government, which is what the honourable member implied. Recently the transport organisation TNT, headed by  Mr Thomas,  bought a large parcel of shares in Ansett Industries at $] a share. I understand that those shares are worth 88c each on the market. I would like to know what honourable members opposite would pay for shares in TAA, if they were available. On my calculations, if I could afford the outlay, I would be prepared to pay $1.20 for each TAA share. Surely the value of an organisation's shares on the market reflects the true value of that organisation. 1 am not quite sure what the expression even-handed' means. I take it that it implies that the Government tends to favour Ansett Industries at the expense of TAA and therefore has restricted the activities of TAA.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I have conferred with the honourable member for Newcastle and he has agreed that a summary of TAA's activities in the period from 1962 to 1971, included in its latest annual report, should be incorporated in Hansard. 
I wish to speak to Appropriation Bill (No.  4)  and, in particular, to Division No.  357  which deals with the Electoral Branch and with other matters such as salaries and payments in the nature of salaries to electoral officers. In doing so I wish largely to talk about elections and issues of elections because I have some concern as had the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  that the electorate may be confused as to what are the important issues at the next elections. There is a feeling that I hear expressed around the electorate from time to time that: 'Let the Labor Party get in next time. Let it have a go. After all, it will make such a mess of things that it will be thrown out at the following election'. I wish to underline the point that this attitude just is not a goer. I agree that the Labor Party would make a shocking mess of things but I think that once it becomes the government of this country, it would so gerrymander the electoral system that there would be no way in the world that the electorate could get rid of the Labor Party. 
I would like to make passing reference to the electoral policy of the Australian Labor Party. On page 13 of the Labor Party's 'Platform, Constitution and Rules' dealing with electoral policy, item 3- 
This is not a current copy; one needs to have one of these every 3 months to keep up with the changing policies of the Labor Party. But this is the current electoral policy of the Labor Party. I am sure that the honourable member for Corio will not deny this. The policy of the Labor Party on this matter states: 
Candidates for election to the House of Representatives to be elected on the basis of the greatest number of votes to any candidate, i.e., first past the post' and on the basis of one vote one value. 
Does any honourable member on the other side of the House deny that that is Labor Party policy? I think not. 
The Government's policy is to support preferential voting. Surely the test of a voting system is how well it translates the will of the people. In my view, preferential voting is the better of the 2 systems. It ensures that every voter can have a say in the final result. If his first choice is eliminated, he does not lose his vote. He can exercise a choice among the candidates left in the running until ultimately the majority prevails. That is the present method of voting and I think it is near to perfect. 
However, I would like to see the present system of preferential voting made voluntary. That is the criticism I would have about our present system. People say that they are compelled to vote. I claim that we are compelled to go to the voting booth; nothing can compel us to vote. In my view, if we were to eliminate that compulsion in our electoral system, we would have the most satisfactory system in the world. It would truly be a representative democracy. 
As the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  happens to be in the chamber, I would like to quote what happened in the electorate of Evans at the last election. As honourable members will remember, there were 5 candidates. The parties represented were the Democratic Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Australian Labor Party, the Australia Party and a party commonly known as the DOGS. The ALP candidate polled 45.4 per cent of primary votes. The other candidates polled 54.6 per cent of primary votes between them. In other words, the majority of electors preferred other candidates to the ALP. After the distribution of the second choice of these voters - the preference vote - the Liberal candidate won the seat with 51.19 per cent of the votes. The ALP candidate had a vote of 48.61 per cent. 
I make the point that the Opposition's first past the post system would have given the seat of Evans to the ALP candidate, even though the majority voted against the Labor Party. 
I would like to pursue this further because I wish to help the honourable member for Corio. I have taken some figures from the last elections. In the 12 seats I was able to research, under the first past the post system of voting, the Labor Party would have won all these seats with a minority of the votes. I have already mentioned the seat of Evans. In the seat of Paterson the Labor candidate scored 37 per cent of the vote. Would honourable members opposite think that he should have won that election? In the seat of Phillip, 43 per cent of votes went to the Labor candidate, while in Holt the figure was 45 per cent. In the electorate of McMillan the Labor Party candidate polled  42  per cent of the vote, in Wimmera its candidate scored only  37  per cent of the vote, in Griffith  46  per cent, in Herbert  46  per cent, in Lilley  47  per cent, in Canning  42  per cent and in Moore  41  per cent of the vote. In the seat of Denison in Tasmania the Labor Party candidate scored only  37  per cent of the vote. The total average vote received by the Labor Party for these  12  seats at the last election was only  46  per cent and the total anti-Labor vote was  54  per cent. 
Members of the Opposition talk of a gerrymander. If we are ever unfortunate enough to see this system of first past the post voting incorporated in our legislation, that will be the total gerrymander. The  12  seats which I mentioned and in which the Labor Party had a very much smaller percentage of the votes than the winning candidates, would have been won by the Labor Party on a first past the post system. 
I appreciate the interjection. This system operates in New Zealand and in the United Kingdom but those countries also have voluntary voting. The Labor Party spokesman on electoral matters, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  who so misunderstands the civil aviation problems associated with airports as to make a tremendous number of mistakes tonight in his speech, asked a question on this matter in October  1970. 1  would say that this was preparation for the next election. He asked the Minister: 
Is he able to say in which countries Parliamentary elections are conducted under the firstpastthepost system of voting. 
The honourable member for Sydney says: What about Britain and what about New Zealand?' Of course there is a first past the post system of voting in both those countries but neither has compulsory voting. From the answer given to the honourable member for Grayndler it appears that  20  or  30  countries have first past the post systems. Let us have a look at some of those countries. There are Afghanistan, Albania, Bulgaria-  
I appreciate that interjection, too, from the honourable member for Angas. Of course, many of these countries are communist countries. Is it all right for me to mention that word? 
There is no option. There is one party. I might just mention one of the countries because I have been there and I enjoyed being there. I refer to Roumania. This is a classic case where in the Grand National Assembly  465  deputies were elected under the first past the post system. In the last election there were  465  candidates. There is no argument in the answer given to the question asked by the honourable member for Grayndler about the first past the post system. Either there is voluntary voting or there is no choice at all, which is the position in communist countries. So I think we could say that the introduction of a first past the post system would create a gerrymander. It would mean the destruction of the small parties in Australia. 
This is the thing. I am sure that the great defenders of civil liberties in this country, people like the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Cope),  who has been interjecting, realise that there should* be an opportunity for people to form small parties. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  or any other honourable member opposite, would not like to see the disintegration of the Democratic Labor Party; they would not like to see the extinction of the Australia Party or the Communist Party. But the introduction of a first past the post system would mean the end of the smaller parties. 
I should like to give an example of what happens under a first past the post system. It destroys the true democratic processes of free voting. Let us take a hypothetical case, say, in the electorate of Bendigo where the Australian Labor Party candidate receives  10,000  votes, the Country Party candidate receives  9,000  votes, the Liberal Party candidates receives  9,000  votes, and another candidate receives  2,000  or  3,000  votes. In that hypothetical case the total Labor Party vote would be only  10,000,  and the total of the non-Labor vote would be 20,000. But under the system by which the Labor Party seeks to create a gerrymander, the Labor Party candidate would win even with a very small minority vote. 
The honourable member for Corio interjects and refers to alphabetical positions on the ballot paper. This is one area where I would be inclined to agree with him. The Labor Party suggests that there should be a ballot for places on the ballot paper. But let us remember what happened in the Senate election in 1937 with the Labor Party candidates in New South Wales. The Labor Party endorsed 4 men whose surnames began with the letter A' so that its candidates could be listed at the top of the ballot paper. I understand that one of the candidates changed his name by deed poll. So I think that the Labor Party should not be critical of the system of placing candidates' names on the ballot paper. 
The question that concerns me is that people in the electorate are saying that if the Labor Party were elected to office it would make such a mess of it that the Liberal-Country Party would soon be returned. I would say that if ever the Labor Party becomes the Government we will never get it out of office for the reasons which I have mentioned; the first being that the Labor Party would introduce the first past the post system. I want to know whether honourable members opposite are sincere in suggesting the introduction of a first past the post voting system, or whether they are suggesting it just to win power. 
The other issue about which honourable members opposite tend to talk about is the question of one vote one value. It is a parrot cry. This question of one vote one value appears on page 33 of the Labor Party's Platform, Constitution and Rules'. But according to the Australian Constitution - and I think that the Australian elector should know how deep run the feelings of the Labor Party in this regard - it is impossible to have one vote one value because no State in the Commonwealth can have fewer than 5 seats. Tasmania, which has 5 seats, has a quota of 40,000 electors. What would the Labor Party do if it got into power? Would it change the Constitution and give Tasmania 2 seats? Of course, it would not. Out of a total of 5 members Tasmania returns 4 members for the Labor Party. So the Labor Party has no intention of changing the system to provide for one vote one value. 
Would anybody say that the voting system for the Senate is one vote one value when New South Wales, with 44 per cent of the Australian population, and Tasmania with 3 per cent of the Australian population, both sent 10 senators to Canberra? Would the Labor Party change that? I think not. The other point that the Labor Party makes concerns the question of population. This is another parrot cry of the Labor Party. It says: 'We represent people, not sheep'. 
Not trees. So what the Labor Party wants to do is to represent not electors but people, and this goes down well; this sounds good. If I can deal with South Australia for a moment, instead of the present quota of 60,000 electors for country seats and 50,000 electors for urban seats, under a Labor Party redistribution there would be a quota of 90,000 people. It is pretty simple to work it out. The population of South Australia, including every man, woman and child, is just over one million. So divided by 12 seats, the quota would be 90,000 people. On my calculations, after a future Labor government controlled gerrymander, this would leave South Australia with a representation of 2 country seats and 10 urban seats. One of the country seats would have to include the provincial cities of Whyalla, Port Augusta, Port Lincoln and Port Pirie and it would certainly be a Labor seat. So under a future Labor administration's redistribution South Australia would return one Liberal* Country Party member at the most, and 1 1 Labor members. No-one could convince me that that is truly representative democracy. 
Then there are people - and unfortunately some of these people are on my own side of politics - who say: 'You will never get it through the Senate. You will get one vote one value or first past the post through the House of Representatives, but you will never get it through the Senate'. I should like to place this on the record here and I hope that in the future no-one will ever say that I was proven to be right. It is possible to get it through the Senate. At present the composition of the Senate is 5 Democratic Labor Party senators, 26 Liberal-Country Party senators, 26 Australian Labor Party senators and 3 independent senators. At the forthcoming election for the House of Representatives  Senator Bonner  from Queensland will have to go to the people. It is possible - extremely unlikely - that he might be defeated, in which case the composition of the Senate would be 5 DLP senators, 25 LiberalCountry Party senators, 27 Labor Party senators and 3 independent senators. I do not know where the independent senators stand. One of them has been a member of every Party, including being the Leader of the Australia Party for a short period. 
This is really the question I address to people who think that they might punish the Government by voting against it just once. If there were a Labor administration and a Senate of the composition to which I have just referred, would it not be possible for someone to be appointed as ambassador to somewhere or other, or for someone to die or to be absent on account of sickness? All of these things are possible. In the event of such a possibility eventuating, the legislation to which I have referred could be put through the Senate. There is a further interesting and to us sinister overtone here. We are dealing with a hypothetical situation, but what would happen if a Government senator from South Australia or Tasmania, or from both of those States, died tonight? The governments of those States are both Labor governments. They are honourable governments. They would appoint a Liberal-Country Party nominee. But that person would have to go to the polls at the next Federal election in November. We have just seen what happened in Tasmania. It is absolutely certain that in the event of an extraordinary by-election in Tasmania for a Senate seat a Labor senator would be elected. The same thing could happen in South Australia and it could happen also in Western Australia where there is possibly a predominance overall of Labor supporters. So it is possible for the Labor Party to have control not only of this House but also of the Senate and thus be enabled to get through whatever legislation it chooses. It is interesting to note that in 1940 the Chifley Govern- ment abolished the first past the post system for the Senate and replaced it with proportional representation because- at that time it suited the Chifley Government. 
I make the point that these are possibilities. It is very likely that a large percentage of the Australian electorate could be disfranchised and its voting rights taken away. This is spelt out in the Labor Party platform - first past the post voting, compulsory voting and a redistribution based on a one vote one value parrot cry. Also there is the Labor Party idea of people not electors building up the electoral quotas. To those who are thinking of risking the future of this country at the next election I say: 'Do not do it', because if the Opposition became the Government we would not get it out in a generation. 
I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the 59th Inter-parliamentary Union conference held in Paris between 21st and 29th September 1971, and I move: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
In doing so, I would like to place on record briefly my appreciation of the co-operation I received from all members of the delegation and the staff who accompanied it. In my view the delegation was a credit to Australia and to the Australian Parliament. Members took part in all debates and discussions and acquitted themselves extremely well. The 7 members of the Australian delegation were representative of the 4 major political parties in this country and were drawn from both this House and the Senate. We voted together on most issues as an Australian delegation, in spite of the the fact that we all held differing political views and represented all areas of the political spectrum. It was a happy delegation and, I think, a worthwhile one from Australia's point of view. I think that the 
Inter-parliamentary Union will be of increasing importance in international affairs. I am pleased, and I know that all members of the delegation are pleased, that the Government has agreed to the continuity submission which we placed before it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I thought it might be a good idea to bring the debate back to the subject of the Budget and to dissociate myself from some of the remarks made by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  particularly his personal remarks about my colleagues and his attack on some of the Arab states. That racist attack could well cause a diplomatic war here. I take the view that the Budget is a highly successful and highly responsible document. There is a difference between motions moved by honourable members on this side of the House and amendments moved by honourable members opposite because whatever we promise- 
I am very relieved that the honourable member for Sturt is leaving the chamber. It will give me a chance to say something. The amendments moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the promises that he has made are unattainable. The position is that we are in Government and whatever we promise, we have to deliver. That is exactly what we will do during the course of the next few weeks. I would like to draw attention - I do not think it has been done yet - to certain deficiencies in the statements of the Leader of the Opposition which have accumulated over the last few months and in particular I would like to draw attention to his amendment. If one examines the amendment carefully one will find no reference whatsoever to defence, costing or taxation. He attacked the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  and accused him of, using rhetoric. I think that is. a typical ploy of a person who has done just that himself. 
We on this side of the House - I think 1 can speak for us all - put defence at the top of our priorities. If we have not enough gumption to defend our country or if we are not prepared to defend it and to make available the necessary expenditure, then we do not deserve to have the country. It was interesting to note that the Leader of the Opposition did not even mention defence in his amendment; nor did he mention taxation, for the simple reason that he would have to increase taxation enormously to finance the promises which he. has made. What I have done is, as far as possible, to cost some of the promises made by the Leader of the Opposition. This was difficult because they are all so very vague. The first promise was simple to cost. He advocated an immediate pension and unemployment benefit payment of $100m. The second one was a reduction in sales tax. He did not indicate by how much he would reduce this tax, but I imagine that there would be an across the board reduction of, say 10 per cent which would mean a cost of $70m for the current year. He said that he would lift unemployment benefits, but again he did not say by how much. The Government has increased them from $44m to $77m, a rise of 20 per cent. I expect that it would be reasonable- 
Do not get too excited, old friend. The Government has provided for an increase of 20 per cent. I imagine that honourable members opposite would say, if we could pin them to a figure, that Labor would give at least a 10 per cent increase in benefits, which is half of what we have done. So, there would be an increase of $12m in unemployment benefits. The Leader of the Opposition said that if Labor is elected it will increase hospital benefits, but once again he did not say by how much. I imagine that it would be by at least as much as we have increased them, that is, by $43m. So, we have to include that amount. The Leader of the Opposition has said on several occasions that, when elected, the Labor Party will spend enormous amounts of money on schools, preschool education and free universities. This promise has been costed publicly. It is estimated that in one year the cost would be $540m. In an instant policy decision of his own - not one of his Party's - he announced that he would see that the means test was abolished. I do not know why the age should be 69 years. On our costing, net or after tax and prior to the new rates of pension, this would cost $200m. 
Those half a dozen items on their own total over Sl,000m or $1 billion, yet they do not include various other promises which I will mention very briefly. The Leader of the Opposition has said that he will increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I do not know what that would cost. He will introduce a national insurance policy. Heaven knows what that would cost.  His  promise in regard to urban transport would cost at least as much as his education promise. He said that he would pick up the tab on the deficits incurred by the railway systems. 1 listened last night to the speech of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  who made the point that that is exactly what the Labor Party would do. Whether Labor would refer this matter to the Labor Premiers and the other Premiers or not, he did not say. He was delightfully impractical, because the net loss by State railway systems over the last 12 months amounted to $66m. So, that amount would have to be added to the cost of the other promises. In one breath the honourable member for Newcastle said that he would upgrade urban transport and in the next breath he was critical of the amount being spent on roads. He did not mention how Labor would finance its proposals. 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned also the ownership of Australian resources and how Labor would control these resources. Presumably he means our mineral resources. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  talked about extra home savings grants and reduced interest rates on housing mortgage loans, should a Labor government be elected to office. He, said in his speech yesterday that a Labor government would acquire land for home building purposes. He did not say . where, a Labor government would get the money. He said that a Labor government would reduce to 4 per cent the interest rate charged to borrowers. That cannot be done without cost because the Government has to borrow money overseas at rates of 6 per cent and 7 per cent. So where does the money come from? That is what we want to know. I hope that the  speaker  from the Opposition side who follows me in this debate will give us some information on this. 
Thank you. We do not want a personal denigration, in relation to some other attitudes; we want direct answers as to where the money will come from. Company tax cannot be increased any more, I would not think, because Australia is one of the highest taxed countries in the world for company tax. So, the money can only come from direct taxation or by cutting down on the defence vote, because Labor proposes to give more money for everything else, across the whole spectrum. I take the view that this is a completely irresponsible attitude - financially and morally. The cost of reducing tax for the family man, as announced in the Budget, is S480m a year. If we were to agree that some of the Labor Party proposals could be financed there would be an increase in taxation on the family man by 10 per cent or 15 per cent. Heaven knows by how much, because the 
Labor Party has not been explicit enough on this matter. What I am asking the honourable member who is to follow me in this debate to do is to be completely honest and tell us where the money will come from, whether or not taxes will be increased and whether or not the defence vote will be reduced. 
I draw attention to a couple of matters of ideology on which honourable members opposite are very much astray. Their proposal to lend money at special interest rates to people who borrow money on home mortgages is not really in the interests of people on lower incomes because the higher the mortgage the higher the saving. In regard to the abolition of the means test, we do not know why the Leader of the Opposition has selected the age of 69 years. This is not in accordance with Labor policy. It is also not  to  accordance with Labor's philosophy because it tends to make the margin between the poor and the wealthy even greater. So I hope that the honourable member who follows me will answer some of the questions I pose. What about the service pensioner who is 60 years of age? Will he, under a Labor government, get a pension in this new plan? What about certain categories of widows? What about the fringe benefits? Does the Labor Party propose to nationalise the doctors or in some way force the doctors to come into such a scheme? These are questions we would like answered. We do not consider that it is a properly considered policy. It has something for everybody. It is full of tricks and contradictions. 
Because there is not much time left to me in this debate I will skip over a few matters and discuss what is activating the Leader of the Opposition and the reason why he is panicking. There is no doubt that he is really in a panic at the moment. I think that the true answer is that the Leader of the Opposition is terribly worried about the result of the next election and he is terribly worried about his own leadership. I believe that his actions are those of a totally insecure man - and when one looks around him it is no wonder. There is no doubt that if an election were held today for the leadership of the Labor Party in this place the 
Caucus of that Party would dump him. He has shifted his position from that of an apparent right winger right round to that of an obvious left winger. He has attacked some of his colleagues quite unnecessarily and has lost their support. Just in the last day or so we have seen a disagreement between him and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  over revaluation. Whatever one says about the honourable member for Dawson, there is no doubt that he has at least an academic knowledge of rural matters. I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition probably would not know a bull from a cow. I am quite sure that he does not even begin to recognise a steer. He had a disagreement with the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Griffiths)  over the feather-bedding of pensioners statement. He has managed to upset a number of good loyal members of the Party.  
We remember in the last 12 months or so the Leader of the Opposition's repudiation on immigration of the honourable member for Grayndler, the architect of Labor's immigration policy. The honourable member for Grayndler cannot have any love for his Leader. The Leader could never safely rely on his vote in a Caucus leadership struggle if one took place now. We also know where the honourable "member for Reid is placed in the spectrum. Does anybody think that the honourable member for Reid would support the Leader of the Opposition in a leadership struggle? We remember what happened in the redistribution affair when the Leader of the Opposition interferred in an attempt to get endorsement for his son. Do not tell me that the honourable member for Reid would support the Leader of the Opposition in a struggle for leadership of the Labor Party. 
I have a great affection for the honourable member for Bonython  (Mr Nicholls),  as I have for some other honourable members opposite. Not all the good guys are on this side of the chamber. Most of them are, but there are some good ones on the other side. I was very much distressed by an incident involving the honourable member for Bonython. About 6 or 7 years ago the Leader of the Opposition appeared on the Seven Days' programme on ATN7 in Sydney. In an interview in which the 
Federal Executive of the Labor Party was discussed the Leader of the Opposition had this to say: 
One of our mates,  Mr Martin  Nicholls who has been in the House of Representatives for 2  years - I am certain nobody outside his own State has heard of him . . . 
Does any honourable member think that the Leader of the Opposition could rely on the support of the honourable member for Bonython in a leadership struggle? Do not honourable members think that the Leader of the Opposition is enormously worried because of the lack of support for him not only in caucus but outside in the ALP organisation? On the same television programme, talking about  Mr Chamberlain, Mr Hartley  and some other moderate people on the Executive, he said that 4 other members of the Federal Executive were members of the Parliament. He said that only one of them -  Mr Webb  - had ever made the grade or ever would make the grade in the Federal Parliament. He said that  Mr Webb  was the only one who would ever be a Minister. But  Mr Harry  Webb has been dumped oS the front bench of the Labor Party. I do not know the names of the other 3 members to whom the Leader of the Opposition referred but if I were one of them the Leader of the Opposition would not get my support in any caucus vote. in going through the list of people behind the Leader of the Opposition who have been upset by him one comes to the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I think it is fair to say that the honourable member for Lalor and I take different views on a number of matters, but we all know where he stands. He does not change position. You can trust him. Some years ago the Leader of the Opposition repudiated the honourable member for Lalor on Vietnam and other matters. The Leader of the Opposition has now taken up a position further to the left than the honourable member for Lalor on Vietnam, breaking the law and so on.  His  actions are like those of the prima ballerina in the ballet 'Swan Lake'. He tippy toes to the right a couple of paces; then he tippy toes to the left a couple of paces; then he does a pirouette, with  Mr Hawke  playing the male lead. 
The Leader of the Opposition has problems outside this place in Labor's organisa tion. I remind honourable members of what happened in the New South Wales election of delegates to the ALP Federal Conference. Normally the New South Wales delegates are moderates and right wingers. Whatever else they may be, they are strong supporters of the Leader of the Opposition. But in the last election there was a strong move to the left with the election of  Mr Heffernan, Mr Gietzelt  and their dear old friend  Mr Robert  Gould, manager of the Third World Bookshop, as delegates.  Mr Gould  is so far to the left that he thinks that card carrying communists are moderates. In academic circles Professor Arndt of the Australian National University has resigned from the Labor Party organisation because of the behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition in China. He did not resign because of the Leader of the Opposition's trip to China but ' because of his behaviour there. All the way along the line the Leader of the Opposition is losing support. He is very worried and that is why he is making extravagant promises. He will promise anything to get a vote. 
The Leader of the Opposition looks over his shoulder and sees  Mr Hawke.  Both  Mr Hawke  and the Leader pf the Opposition look over their collective shoulders and see  Mr Carmichael  and  Mr Halfpenny.  Dare I mention them? They are the communist strong men in the Amalgamated Metal Workers Union. He sees amalgamations to the right of him while to the left the communists are getting stronger and stronger in the grass roots organisation of his Party. He sees what men like  Mr .  Mundey have been doing. The Leader of the Opposition adopts the classic attitude of coming out strongly and then running away from the brawl. About six or seven years ago he said 
I will resign if the Party takes no action against collaboration between AL? and communist unionists. 
He made that sort of statement on 2 or 3 occasions. Although he threatened to resign about 7 years ago he is still there. I think I should also refer to the Townsville declaration which we fleetingly referred to by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  It is part of official ALP policy. I hope that the honourable member for Grayndler who is to follow me in this debate will say whether it is really a part of the official ALP policy. The declaration stated: 
Union officers shall be immune from legal actions for offences committed in furtherance of a trade dispute.  (Quorum formed) In the few moments left to me I want to say that there can be no union peace in this country until the grass roots members of the unions are prepared to attend union meetings and to stand up to the muscle men, the communists and fellow travellers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Corbett)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for Sturt, who has just resumed his seat, misrepresented me a few moments ago. He continues to do this - he has done it ever since he has been in this place. Normally I let such a reference go but I thought that I could not do so on this occasion. The honourable member accused me of frantically telephoning people in Adelaide. I think he used the word 'blackmail' somewhere. I find his language difficult to understand, but they are the expressions I believe he used. There is no way in the world how he or any other member would know that I was telephoning anyone anywhere. What he has said is completely false. He has accused me of the improper use of the telephone system which I categorically deny. I say that this is a typical completely untruthful statement- 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been grossly and seriously misrepresented by the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Foster).  During the debate this afternoon the honourable member for Sturt attacked the 4 South Australian members on the Government side and said, amongst other things, that I had been spending the whole of the day frantically ringing up my Party headquarters in Adelaide trying to influence some sort of vote which will take place tomorrow to elect the new  President  of our Party. He used another word. I do not know the context because I was on the way intothe chamber, but the word was 'blackmail'. I came into the chamber and drew attention to this matter at the time, because there is no way in the world that the honourable member would know whether I was using the telephone or whether I was not. 
He interjects and says: Yes there is'. I make the point that if there is, I think the evidence should come forward and I would like to have the matter finally resolved in the Privileges Committee. The point is that I came into the chamber and refuted the honourable member's allegations which were totally untrue and which culminated a series of chapters of untruths that have been evident since he has been in this chamber. I thought that was the end of the matter. Someone has just telephoned me from Adelaide to say that all the items mentioned by the honourable member for Sturt have been used in a television programme and regurgitated as fact. What concerns me is that in this Parliament we enjoy privileges. One can say anything about anyone else in this chamber, and if this is going to be taken- 
The point of misrepresentation is the one I mentioned earlier, that is, that in the television programme the misrepresentation comment was not mentioned. Obviously the material had been forwarded before the words were ever uttered. It just seems to me that it is making a mockery of this place when one can be accused- 
Thank you. The position is that if these things were said outside the House I would have the law to protect me but as they were said inside the House there is nothing to protect me, either inside the House or outside the House. I suggest that the honourable member for Stuart should retract completely what he said because he knows, I know and in fact we all know - if there is anybody left on the other side who has any sense of fair play at all - that what he said is untrue. 
Government members - No.  Mr FOSTER  (Sturt)- well, I claim to have been misrepresented. I hope that you, 

 Sir, will give me the same latitude as you gave the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay). 
During the course of the remarks of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  which 1 might say were mostly moralising, he used an expression which probably came close to being unparliamentary and I must draw attention to it. He used an expression which I think I heard him use much earlier today. He said that people in this place were peddling documents which he described as being the work of the lie factory of the Liberal Party. I wondered why the same honourable member did not support me earlier this afternoon because a deliberate falsehood was dreamed up about me today and used by one of the honourable member's colleagues, transmitted to an Adelaide television station and broadcast by the journalist, a fellow named Thornquist, as fact. This television station is not even represented here. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! I ask the honourable member for Boothby to relate his remarks to the 2 Bills that are now the subject of a cognate. 
Very well. I was just drawing attention to what was said by the honourable gentleman who has just resumed his seat. He is honestly annoyed at what he believes is a piece of denigration, but I assure him that it is not. I can assure him that the regurgitation as the truth of something which is not a fact is enough to make me as well as the honourable gentleman feel most annoyed. 
I return to the Bills before the House. The purpose of these Bills simply is to implement the taxation proposals contained in the Budget. I make the point, because I am quite sure that many people in the community are not fully aware of it, that these proposals affect everyone, not only employees but also employers. They mean that as from tomorrow all taxpayers will pay lower income tax and higher family deductions will be available. It is important also for us to remind taxpayers that these concessions are an additional reduction in income tax to the decrease of 24 per cent in income tax which was enacted by legislation passed last April. The reductions across the board average out at approximately 10 per cent. This is a significant reduction. The taxpayer in receipt of an income of $4,000 a year or approximately $76 a week - I believe that that is close to the average wage - will have his income tax reduced by 12.4 per cent. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned the person in receipt of $10,000 a year. That person's taxation will be reduced by 6.6 per cent. It is interesting to note that fewer than 3 per cent of all Australian taxpayers earn more than $10,000 a year. 
I put the view to the House and to anyone who is listening to this debate that we should consider the philosophy behind these reductions. In the first place, they are designed to benefit the family man and, in particular, the one-income family. Of all taxpayers in the community, in my view the one in most trouble is the oneincome taxpayer with a family to support. 1 think that we would all agree on this point. We see reports about high savings bank deposits. I do not know of anyone who can accurately determine the statistical evidence in this respect but I am confident that most of those with high savings bank deposits are young people who are perhaps not yet married and are saving up to buy a home, 2 income families and persons in the middle age group whose family is off their hands. 
Politicians fit into many taxpaying categories. Some are young and unmarried. Some are older with families off their hands, such as the honourable member who interjects and myself. It is the persons in between those 2 categories who are in trouble. They have all the responsibility of bringing up their families and they must do this on the one income. The provisions of this legislation will provide help to those on lower income levels but will be useful also at higher income levels because there is a significant and positive saving. As a matter of philosophy, we have not destroyed the incentive for people to work harder, perhaps gain higher academic qualifications and to earn higher incomes. One aspect of this legislation that I wish to mention - perhaps others who follow may mention it also - concerns the allowance in respect of the expenses of self education of a taxpayer. In his second reading speech on the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972 (No. 2), the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  makes the point that the Government has decided.   . . that a concession should be available for people who set themselves the task of gaining educational qualifications connected with their careers. We therefore propose a special concessional deduction for expenditure incurred by a taxpayer on fees, books and equipment associated with a course of education he undertakes for the purpose of acquiring qualifications related to his employment or career. The new concession will not be subject to any age qualification. It will be available whether a course of education is attended on a full-time or part-time basis or is carried on by correspondence. 
I would think that there is not a member of this House who has not made representations about this matter. I would like to be informed by the Minister for the Army  (Mr Katter),  who is at the table, before the debate is closed whether this would also apply to a professional man such as a doctor who goes for example, to London to obtain higher professional degrees? In the past this has not been so. 
The amount of tax which is forgone in these proposals is approximately $480m a year. I suppose if we deal in approximations and take an average across the board figure of 10 per cent, we could say that a 10 per cent rise or fall in taxation at the family level is worth about $500m. We heard a few 'hear, hears' tonight when the honourable member for Melbourne Ports mentioned that too much tax is being charged. We want to know what Labor intends to do about financing the promises which it continues to make. There was not a single reference to taxation or costing in the amendment to the Budget moved by the Leader of the Opposition. We have to look elsewhere, therefore, to find out how the Labor Party proposes to finance its proposals. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports objected to the piece of paper I am now holding which contains a record of what he said on 7th August during the interview on television. He was asked about his taxation proposals and the people who would be paying the taxes which obviously would be necessary to pay for Labor's proposals. The honourable member for Melbourne Ports indicated that the family man - the man on $90 a week or thereabouts - would be the person who would be paying the tax. I do not want the honourable member to think that my Party is, as he described it, a lie factory, because I intend to quote to the House what he said during that television interview on 7th August. The honourable member was asked the question: 
How about the chap who is earning more than $90 per week, more than $4,500-5,000 per year, would he pay more under a Labor government? 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports gave the following reply: 
Again, no doubt it seems unlikely to me that in terms of all the needs that are required, (hat we are going to be able to do with less revenue in total. So that obviously, if some people's tax is reduced, well there arc going to be some whose taxes are increased. 
We waited in vain for the Leader of the Opposition to even mention this. We had to look at the text of a television interview with the shadow Treasurer to get a clue The honourable member for Melbourne Ports was then asked: 
Do you see the differential point being $4,000. $4,500, $5,000 a year? 
The honourable member replied: 
Well, it at least would be anybody around thai sort of level at the moment. . . . 
So what we have been able to discover finally is that the Labor Party proposes increasing the levels of tax on the man on or about $90 a week. What we want to know is how on earth the Labor Party can possibly finance even half of its proposals. During the Budget debate and in other places we have had a series of promises from the Labor Party which I do not think would hurt to record. The Labor Party has promised an immediate pension and unemployment payment of $100m. It has promised a reduction in sales tax. No amount has been mentioned in this case. This is one of our problems. We find that Labor makes ail sorts of promises but is not specific. That is good politics. But we should try to be specific. 
The honourable member said that we want their brains. I would not like to be unkind, but one could go hungry. I think it would be reasonable to say that the Labor Party would reduce sales tax across the board by about 10 per cent. This would cost $70m. The Leader of the Opposition has promised an increase in the unemployment benefit. The increase by the Government in the unemployment benefit resulted in its expenditure on this item increasing from $44m to $S7m, which represents a 20 per cent increase. I take it that the Labor Party would increase the unemployment benefit by at least 10 per cent, and this would involve an additional expenditure of $12m. 
The Labor Party has indicated in its statements on the Budget that if it were in government it would further increase hospital benefits. The Government has increased the expenditure on this item by $43m. When the Government says it will increase something it means what it says. The Government has to be able to justify its actions and it has to be able to account for what it does. The Opposition does not have to do the same. I suppose the Labor Party would further increase hospital benefits by the same amount, and this would involve an additional expenditure of $43m. The Labor Party has indicated that it will spend a fantastic amount on education, including extra expenditure on schools and pre-school education as well as the provision of free university education. That has been costed publicly at $540m in one year. The Leader of the Opposition, in an instant policy decision, said that the Labor Party would also abolish the means test within 3 years. I do not know why he has selected the age of 69. Nobody has told us yet. But on the old rate of pension and on the old rate of tax net, that would cost on our figures $200m in a year. 
Yesterday the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  indicated that if the Labor Party were in government it would pick up the deficits of the railways around Australia. That would work out at $66m in one year. The Labor Party also has announced that it will reduce home mortgages. That would cost $80m in a year. I cannot see how the Labor Party can philosophically justify doing that because it would benefit most of the people who have the larger mortgages. It has other housing proposals amounting to over $500m. All of its proposals add up to over $1.5 billion. That expenditure would be financed by a 30 per cent increase in the rate of tax imposed on the sort of taxpayer which the honourable member for Melbourne Ports thinks can afford to pay it, namely, the person on $90 a week or over. The Labor Party would have to reduce Government expenditure on other things, jack up the tax or impose a tax rate right across the board and tax the poor as well as the wealthy. There are lots of other proposals that I have not included. These include national insurance, urban transport and ownership of Australian resources. In fact, these proposals make up a whole procession of gobbledegook. In the Government's view the financial proposals of the Labor Party are entirely irresponsible. The Government believes that the Labor Party should be honest with the taxpayers and say where the money will come from to finance all of its extravagant proposals. I do not think there is much doubt but that a Labor government would jack up taxes and reduce defence spending, thereby endangering the security of this country. There can be no other conclusion but that. 
The Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 4) 1972 (No. 2), which is the other Bill before the House, provides, as taxpayers will be interested to learn, for an increase in tfr* deduction allowable for a spouse from $312 to $364 a year, from $208 to $260 for the first child under 16 years and from $156 to $208 for other children under 16 years. I do not want to labour the point about family deductions that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made in his interview. I believe that he is an honourable man and that he was sincere when he talked about doubling family deductions. But he must admit that his statement would creats doubts in the minds of all taxpayers about whether such things as insurance, education expenses and hospital and medical expensewill be allowed as taxation deductions. Th. taxpayers must wonder what the Labo, Party would do about those deductions  i!  it were in office. Would Lt wipe them off? Would they be no longer deductible? 
The Government really cannot be blamed for drawing attention to this matter, lt i fairly obvious that the Labor Party no longe represents the people in the lower income levels. That is obvious from its proposal to abolish the means test. The abolition of th means test will simply mean that the ga''&lt; between the poor and the wealthy will be come wider. How can honourable members opposite possibly reconcile that with their former socialist philosophies? I have already mentioned interest on loans. I should now like to refer to the last national wage case. The Australian Council of Trade Unions - the Australian Labor Party's industrial organisation - had to have the hearing deferred from November to April because its submissions to the Court in respect of those people at or near the minimum wage level were not ready. So thousands and thousands of people on low incomes did not receive the benefit of the national wage case decision because it was late in being decided. The industrial organisation of the ALP did not have the case ready. 
I shall quote the remarks of  Mr Justice  Moore from the transcript of the national wage case for 1970.  Mr Justice  Moore said: 
We find it hard- 
That is, the Court -  to see how future benches can continue to give him special treatment- 
Him' means the person at or near the minimum wage -  in the absence of more information such as the actual living standards of people on or near the minimum wage, how many there are- 
Surely these are fundamental statistics -  how many would be affected by any future claim and what effect the introduction of minimum wage has had generally in industry. 
The point I make is that the Labor Party can no longer purport to represent those at or near the minimum wage levels. 
They do; many of them vote for you because these sorts of matters do not receive a public hearing. The judgments of  Mr Justice  Moore cannot possibly be refuted. The Opposition has speakers following me in this debate. All that we want is for honourable members opposite to tell us how they represent the people on the lower incomes and how they propose paying for the proposals that they have poured out willy-nilly. 
I hope the honourable member for Sydney will follow me in the debate and provide us with such an inkling because the taxpaying public is entitled to know. What honourable members opposite really are saying is that if they were in government they would have to . increase taxes just to keep face. I have not heard a single Oppposition member mention one of these issues or give the House any indication of where the money is coming from. It can come only from increasing taxes or cutting down on expenditure. 
We have the job of running the Government. We are putting through the legislation now. The money can come from only one of 2 sources. 
I would make a mess of you if you attacked me outside the House as you do inside the House under privilege. Another way of providing the money would be by trimming down the defence expenditure. That is the secret, that is what the Opposition proposes to do. It has indicated that it will cancel the order for the Fill aircraft. The Opposition will destroy the Army through the abolition of national service. That is how the Opposition proposes to find some of the money. Even if the Opposition were to abolish all defence expenditure it could not pay for all of its promises. I think that these 2 Bills are marvellous legislation. The people in the country will feel its benefit in the next week or 2 and it is for this reason that honourable members opposite are so sensitive about the entire legislation. 
First of all I would like to deal with the remarks made by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison),  particularly the one, which I believe was very unfair and which was repeated two or three times, in which he described the Government as having a callous disregard for residents of the electorate of St George. The honourable member went on to refer to 3 or 4 other Labor held electorates. I wonder whether he or honourable members on the other side of this chamber believe that there is any difference between the people who live in the different electorates. Noise is just as uncomfortable for those who live in electorates held by Government supporters. It is completely unfair and untrue to say that the Government is callous or that the Government disregards in any way at all the residents of electorates. This Government has a superb regard for and has shown an awareness towards the problems of noise and the environment. The Government has taken action to reduce the discomfort associated with noisy airports. 
For the benefit of the honourable member for St George and others who have an interest in this matter I would like just to give some information about the initiative that the Government has taken in regard to aircraft noise. Internationally we were the first Government to take any initiative at all and we introduced this matter at the International Civil Aviation Organisation conference in Buenos Aires in 1968. We followed it up with a strong delegation to a noise abatement meeting in Montreal in 1969. We continue to attend all conferences on noise and other matters connected with civil aviation; so it is not true to say that we have not taken any initiative, even internationally. Within Australia we have taken many steps, some of which I will mention. We use preferential runways. We have established holding areas away from the main centres. We have adopted a steeper approach and take-off path which, I think, was mentioned by the honourable member for St George. 
As a result of submissions from members all round the House, not from just one side or the other. The cost to the industry is in excess of $2m a year on this one initiative. We have imposed curfew restrictions, about which I shall say more later. We have established airport noise abatement committees. We have recommended to local authorities and State governments the zoning of land around airports. We have provided noise exposure forecasts until 1980, as was recommended by a joint committee which inquired into this matter. These forecasts are available to all local government authorities which have an interest in airports. The Government has established a special branch within the Department of Civil Aviation to deal with aircraft noise abatement committees. We have introduced - I think one honourable member mentioned this - noise monitoring. Honourable members will remember the case of the Concorde flight over Australia and the monitoring equipment which has recently been installed at Sydney Airport. Each aircraft company spends a lot of money on installing engine test cells. I know that the one installed at Tullamarine recently by Trans-Australia Airlines cost over $300,000. 
This is all to do with noise. Each of the companies is spending a large amount of money on engine modifications - $250,000 in fact - to eliminate smoke trails. The Government is interested in anti-pollution moves. As honourable members will know, in each case the companies have installed or will be installing the more expensive engines in the new Boeing 727 stretched series because they are quieter. This will cost the companies $3m. 
1 am glad the honourable gentleman has interjected because this confirms the initiatives that the Government has taken and its recognition of the problems associated with noise abatement. The honourable member for St George dealt at some length with the curfew problems. I think that I should say - it is not readily known here - that one of the conditions of the extension of the 2-airline policy is that operations during the curfew period in Sydney, Brisbane and Adelaide will be kept at an absolute minimum. We all know that there are occasions when airport curfews are broken. I quote from a letter which I wrote to the Town  Clerk  of the Municipality of Kuringai a few days ago. It will not hurt to repeat here what was mentioned in that letter dealing with this very subject. I wrote: approval . . . 
That is for breaking of the curfew -  is confined to jets that are correctly scheduled but are running late because of mechanical trouble . . . 
What would a Labor government do in such a situation - send them out to sea? My letter continued:  weather problems, industrial disputes, etc. At holiday periods extra flights might be approved to operate within the curfew period to cater for the increased demand for travel facilities at these times. 
I hope that the honourable member for St George is in this building and will listen to this because I should like to read to the House, to the people who live in the area of St George and their member an editorial from the local provincial newspaper known as the St George and Sutherland Shire 'Leader' of Wednesday 26 July last. It is headed: 'Real Facts in Air Noise' and states: 
Protests against aircraft noise in this area have always had more than a tinge of emotionalism. 
And they have had in this House. The editorial continues: 
The Department of Civil Aviation is invariably painted as a hard hearted ogre with no compassion  for  those unfortunate enough to live beneath approach paths. 
But a publication by the Airport Noise Abatement Committee illustrates clearly what is being done about alleviating air noise. 
I commend that publication to honourable members. It is freely available from the Bills and Papers Office. It is not a Govern ment publication; it is produced by the Airport Noise Abatement Committee. The editorial continues: 
Some amazing facts are outlined by the Committee; amazing in that they are very different from what is rammed down our throats at protest meetings. 
How many people are aware, for instance, that 75 per cent of all takeoffs from the airport . . . 
The editorial is referring to Sydney Airport -  in a 12 month period go out over Botany Bay or that only 8 per cent of all takeoffs, are over Rockdale? Again, only 17 per cent of evening landings are over Rockdale and only 2 per cent late at night. Admittedly, 40 per cent of landings are made over Rockdale during the day, but the figure is not the highest and other areas have to have some relief sometime. 
The Committee points out that the preferred runway system takeoffs and landings over Botany Bay is in use at the airport. These aircraft movements over Botany Bay must be made at late night hours in suitable weather conditions. With this preferred system some flights are made shortly after the 11 p.m. curfew because of the extra safety time needed between a takeoff and landing on the same runway. 
I did not have time to mention it, but within the half-hour after the curfew period about 80 per cent or 90 per cent of the flights have been completed. The editorial continued: 
In other words, if you want a preferred runway system in and out into Botany Bay you have to be a little realistic about the curfew. You cant have your cake and eat it too. 
This, I remind honourable members, is an editorial from a local newspaper. It continued: 
The Committee says quite bluntly that the noise abatement procedures depend entirely on weather conditions, the amount of traffic and the airport's operational safety standards. More noise abatement in adverse weather - less safety. 
That would seem to me to be a pretty good slogan. It continued: 
The Committee's publication 'Action Against Aircraft Noise' shatters some of the wild emotional misstatements made at protest meetings. 
I could add to that those statements made in this House. The editorial continued: 
By all means let us have a campaign against aircraft noise but let us campaign with facts and the recognition that at least something is being done. 
That was the editorial from the St George and Sutherland Shire 'Leader' of Wednesday, 26th July. They are not things that I have said. There is no time left at this stage, but a little later in the debate I  should like to take up one or two of the points mentioned by the honourable member for Newcastle. 
The House is dealing with legislation which will provide massive grants to the States. They are very generous grants under a completely new formula. I would like to take up some of the time of the Parliament today to examine what some of the States are doing with the grants. In particular I would like to mention South Australia. I want to bring tb the notice of the Parliament and the people of Australia what I consider to be a scandalous example of what seems to be a hushed up corrupt practice which is occurring at Government level in South Australia. 1 want to show to the Parliament and the people how Labor behaves when it gets into power, as it is unfortunately and most regrettably in South Australia. For many years the Labor Party has placed all its advertising with Messrs Hansen and Rubensohn, an Australian company. In 1959 an American agency, McCann ErickSOn, bought out this Australian-owned company and as Hansen RubensohnMcCann Erickson Pty Ltd it has since handled all the Labor Party advertising and market research. This company of 4 names is a totally foreign owned agency. Its ownership can be traced back through holding companies to an American company, Gansell and Co. of New York. I have checked on the address of this company. It is a rather remote address - a post office box number - No. 1508 in New York. It is also interesting to note that 2 of the shares in this company are owned by a solicitor in Norfolk Island. I should like to have a lot of questions answered about this agency. For instance, what does it do about paying Australian taxes and other matters? 
However, in South Australia, Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson is managed by  Mr Geoff  Huntley. By using public funds - this is a recent innovation - 6 South Australian government departments have recently embarked on an intensive advertising campaign which must be costing an enormous amount of money. J am not opposed to advertising campaigns per se. The one for the Municipal Tramways Trust, I think, is a good idea on the whole. However 6 government departments have embarked on advertising campaigns - the 
Woods and Forests Department, the Municipal Tramways Trust, the new State Government Insurance Commission, the Electoral Department, the Premiers Department, which includes the Development Department, and the Government Tourist Bureau - and are spending significant sums of money. It cannot be any coincidence that the Dunstan Labor Government in South Australia is using the same foreign-owned advertising agency as the Labor Party is using in South Australia. Because of the foreign ownership and the central offices being in the eastern States, this policy is resulting in a considerable loss of employment in South Australia, particularly in the printing, platemaking, engraving, film production and paper supply trades, not to mention artists and writers, many of whom have had to leave South Australia. The production of only one commercial for television could affect the employment of 40 or 50 people and, as we have seen announced today and publicised in this House, the unemployment situation in South Australia is amongst the worst in the Commonwealth. 
An even more incredible facet of this affair concerns the hushing-up of reference to these matters in the South Australian House of Assembly last month by the Liberal Country League member for Hanson. He accused the Dunstan Labor Government of corrupt practices and drew attention to the fact that  Mr Huntley,  the manager of Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erick.son, although a highly experienced advertising man has no notable experience in finance, accounting or public administration yet suddenly he has been appointed as a trustee of the Savings Bank of South Australia. The member for Hanson introduced a private member's motion, as it is called in South Australia, in the State Parliament on 30th August dealing with this matter. The motion stated: 
That in the opinion of this House all Government and semi-government advertising should be placed with Australian, preferably South Australian, owned and controlled agencies. 
He went on to describe the action in the appointment of  Mr Huntley  as being a golden handshake. He has told me since that he has been threatened by a senior member of the Australian Labor Party to withdraw or else. It can hardly be any coincidence that since  Mr Huntley's  appointment the South Australian owned advertising agency which has serviced the bank for over 20 years has been sacked and the business given to another very large foreign-owned agency. From confidential information which I have received I can reveal that the American owned agency, George Patterson, purely on the basis of writing to the bank in a 2- page letter asking for business, was given this account worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
I have a copy of a letter written by the Woods and Forests Department on 11th August 1970 to another South Australian agency, Clem Taylor O'Brien Pty Ltd, sacking this firm from its services. I quote an extract from that letter as follows:   . . confirms telephoned a'dvice 1970 that this Department was required by Government directives to employ the publicity firm of Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erickson 
I make the point that these government departments have been instructed by the Dunstan Labor Government to put their advertising through this particular firm which also handles the ALP advertising. The Savings Bank of South Australia is the only government departmental account not handled by  Mr Huntley's  foreign-owned agency, but under the Act as a trustee of the bank his company cannot serve the bank's advertising. However it is interesting to note that the account was, once again, given to a foreign-owned agency. 
Looking more directly at the Dunstan Labor Government advertising set-up as it has since developed, we find that a  Mr Malin,  who formerly worked for the South Australian Government as a television and publicity expert in the Tourist Bureau and in the Premier's Department, has suddenly appeared on the staff of, as honourable members can guess, Hansen, Rubensohn-McCann Erickson. The total silence of the media in South Australia disturbs me more than anything else about these episodes - what I would describe as a disgraceful series of events. Not one word has appeared in the daily newspapers, or been heard on radio or television. Surely the South Australian public and the Australian taxpayers are entitled to know 
Something about the circumstances of this use of public funds. I would like to know whether the media in South Australia are frightened of the Dunstan Labor Government. Having regard to the immense advertising revenue of the Labor Party and the Labor Government and its instrumentalities all being channelled through principally one but partially two totally foreign-owned agencies the answer could well be yes. Perhaps the media are frightened of them, their potential power and their spending power or perhaps they think that it is better not to rock to boat. 
My colleague in the House of Assembly has attempted to bring this matter to the public notice but not a word has been mentioned. This is the only forum left to us and that is why I am bringing it forward in this Parliament. At least we are on the air. Under the South Australian Labor Government, subservient as it is to elements of the trade union movement and controlled as it is by a handful of people, ] do not suppose we can blame the media for their reluctance to tangle with the controllers of such vast sums of money. But I wonder what would happen if we were ever unfortunate enough to have a Federal Labor government. Then I take it that the amount of money which is spent federally by government departments and which is in excess of $6m, would go through this foreign owned agency. I question what would then happen with the media. 
I appreciate the interjection of the honourable member for Adelaide because I had forgotten to mention this fact. He said that our own advertising is going through foreign-owned agencies. This simply is not true. The position with the Federal Liberal Party is that it does not spend a nickel on advertising. Each of the State Liberal parties - and I take it this applies to the Country Party - is the same position; it is responsible for its own appointment of advertising agencies. I know that in South Australia, for as long as I can remember and before that, ail moneys spent on advertising by the Liberal Country League were spent with a South Australian agency. 
I take the view that, under the Labor administration in South Australia, that State is degenerating into a banana republic, where the institutions that we expect to be the watchdogs of our hard-won democratic processes are under attack and are gradually being taken over. In my view the preservation of these institutions is essential to protect our freedom. I refer to the judiciary, the police and the news media. The judiciary, thank heavens, is still independent in South Australia but already we have seen the Labor Administration there put the Police Commissioner of South Australia under government ministerial direction. I see in the intrusion of this largely foreign owned advertising agency the power for the final control over the third of these elements, namely, the Press and the news media. The Press is the significant section of the news media. What is reported in the Press is what is used on radio and television. 
What appears to be the suppression or, at any rate, the lack of public reference to the control of public moneys by foreign owned advertising agencies in South Australia indicates that the Press considers that it is looking down the barrel. I would say to the Press in South Australia that if it does not act now, things will not get any easier in the future. We are on the road to losing one of our very important institutions whose job it is to examine all public issues critically, I do not think it is beyond the realms of belief that the South Australian Press is being subjected to a polite form of blackmail. I would like to know, for example, who checks the accounts of the agencies and I would also like to know what the Auditor-General thinks of these matters. 
In the few moments that I have remaining to me I shall refer to the only public reference - that I have seen, at any rate - to this entire matter. It is contained in a publication called 'Advertising News' and it is the report of an address given by  Senator Douglas  McClelland, a New South Wales Labor senator, to a meeting in Sydney of the Australian-owned Advertising Agencies Council. The report states: 
One of the fundamental principles of the Labor movement is loyally to those who are regarded as our friends . . . 
I take it that, as the Australian Labor Party has been loyal to this agency for so many years it will continue to be loyal to it, whether it is foreign owned or not. I am thinking how loyal the Labor Party was to its friends in the recent Kangaroo Island dispute in South Australia. The report continues: 

 Senator McClelland said from a personal viewpoint, he hoped the ALP 'will come to see the wisdom of patronising an Australian owned agency'. He said this view in no way reflected on the present agency which was doing 'a very good job*. 
I just make the final point that the Australian Labor Party is supposed to represent the little man - the local man, the battler. I do not believe that the Australian Labor Party represents that sort of man any more. The Australian Labor Party claims that it wants Australia for Australians and that it is opposed to foreign ownership. I say that the Labor Party says one thing and does another, because all of its advertising is distributed by foreign owned agencies, and the more power that sort of agency accumulates the more it can dictate to editors and journalists generally on what they shall write and publish and what they shall not write. I hope to see a report and some correction of this information in the daily Press in South Australia tomorrow. 
As we are dealing with the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department, I take it that it will be in order for me to speak about truth and justice. 1 want to refer to some of the remarks I made yesterday in a debate in this place when I was talking about the Australian Labor Party's advertising agencies, who controls the funds and who owns the agencies. I want to refer also to some of the remarks that were made after I had finished my speech. In particular I want to refer to what the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who I am pleased to see in the chamber this evening, had to say, to what the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  had to say and to what the Premier of South Australia had to say, as reported in the Advertiser' this morning. All 3 gentlemen have dealt fairly loosely with the truth. 
The honourable member for Adelaide, talking about the Liberal Party's advertising, said: 
Your own advertising is going through foreign owned agencies. 
He will remember saying that. It is recorded in Hansard at page 1552. 
The honourable member for Kingston made 3 similar totally untruthful remarks in the cause of truth. When referring to firms which handle the Australian Labor Party's advertising, he dealt in 2 or 3 paragraphs with 3 items of specific non-truth. The Premier of South Australia also had something to say along the same lines which was equally untrue. He referred, gratuitously I thought, to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  saying that the Prime Minister himself had approached the Australian Labor Party's advertising agency. That is totally untrue. I deplore this continual repetition of untruths. Some people on the other side of the chamber believe that the more often one tells an untruth the more likely it is that it will be believed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! I would like to draw the attention of the Assistant Minister assisting the Minister for Civil Aviation to standing order 71 which reads as follows: 
No member may allude to any debate or proceedings of the same session unless such allusion be relevant to the matter under discussion. 
We are discussing the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  for bringing me back to the subject matter. 1 wish to deal with the truth of the position in regard to the Liberal Party of Australia and who handles its advertising. I think that this is appropriate to the debate. 
If the honourable member for Sturt will give me the opportunity, I will proceed to relieve him from his misery, or some of it, and tell him what is the truth. 1 hope that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  will give me the same protection under the Standing Orders as you give to other members. The Liberal Party has no Federal organisation as the Australian Labor Party has, in that it does not have a central party using a single agency with which it places all its funds. In New South 
Wales the company that currently handles the Liberal Party's advertising is a firm named Masius, Wynne-Williams (N.S.W.) Pty Ltd. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! I draw the attention of the Assistant Minister to the fact that Liberal Party or Labor Party advertising has absolutely no relevance to the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. 
There is considerable significance in the question of what is the truth and what is not the truth. The point I make is that the Attorney-General's Department is dealing in matters of justice. I would ask you.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  to give me the same sort of leniency as other  deputy  chairmen give other people in this place. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - Order! What is your point of order? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The Chair will decide on that. 
I aim ultimately, if I am able to do so, to deal with a matter of Commonwealth law. In particular, if I am allowed to do so, I would like to refer to the attention of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control the question of the problems caused by the foreign control of advertising agencies. Nobody can possibly dispute the fact that this is within the purview of the Attorney-General's Department. I want to make the point that the 2 major political parties have different ways of handling their advertising. All of the Liberal Party's advertising is handled through the State branches of the Party, contrary to the statements made by honourable members opposite. When Labor was in power in New South Wales the advertising agency which at present handles Labor's advertising, Hansen Rubensohn-McCann Erikson- 
That is the whole point. A foreign owned company handles the Australian Labor Party's advertising and also that of a State Labor government. That is what I am complaining about insofar as South Australia is concerned. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! I should like again to draw the attention of the Assistant Minister to the fact that his remarks are quite irrelevant to the estimates for the Attorney-General's Department. If you intend to continue your speech, will you please refer to these estimates. 
I propose to suggest a particular form of Commonwealth law to control this matter. With respect to you,  Sir, I  think it is quite unfair to eat up my time completely and not allow me to enlarge upon the point. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! I think that is a reflection upon the Chair. 
I withdraw that remark. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I have just given a ruling on the way in which I see the position. 
I appreciate your help in allowing me to get on with the debate,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  The Liberal Party's advertising in Victoria is handled by Hayes and Co., a firm which is entirely Australian owned. 
Hayes and Co. The advertising for the Liberal Party in Western Australia is handled exclusively by Haygarth and Co., which is Australian owned. The Liberal Party's advertising in Queensland is handled by Fortune (Aust.) Pty Ltd, which is Australian owned. None of these companies handles State government business. 
I thank you,  Mr Speaker,  for the exercise qf this democratic process, . ; 
I withdraw the reflection on the Chair. I wish to direct the attention of honourable members to the speech &gt;of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  last night and the fact that there was no opportunity for anyone else to speak after he finished. So it is nonsense to say that I had an opportunity to bring this matter before the House before now. For the benefit of honourable members, I will read standing order 321. It states: 
A document relating to public affairs quoted from by a Minister - : 
I interpolate here to point out that this is the very reason why we on this side of the House oppose the restriction on the Act. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry. Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Government is considering abolishing export incentives? In view of the problems already created for exporters by the Government's currency decisions, is the Minister able to confirm or deny the accuracy of these reports? 
We are debating the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill 1973 and in particular that part of the Bill dealing with the abolition of sales tax on oral contraceptives. Because of what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has already indicated to the House I know that I can say that the Opposition supports the measure. Like the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  who spoke just before the suspension of the sitting for dinner, I personally support it strongly and I wish that the Opposition had done it when we were in Government. However we cannot always be all things to all people, even to private members. I think that if we had been in Government we might have gone about this a little differently. Although I agree with the Bill and what will happen as a result of it, I think our job in Opposition is to draw attention to some anomalies which will be created. Contrary to the view of my Leader, I believe that perhaps there should be a little bit of politics in this debate, because in my view the Australian Labor Party in the election campaign promised to remove the sales tax on contraceptives to appeal for the vote of women in the electorate. It surrendered to pressure groups such as the Women's Electoral Lobby and Zero Population Growth and sought by doing that to obtain support from women voters who thought that that was all that was involved. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr McKenzie)  mentioned the movement, 
Zero Population Growth, and I think he said something to the effect that it is important for Australia to have a look at this group's new philosophy. He used the expression that we are part of the world and that because we are part of the world presumably we should now look at the philosophy of not increasing our population in accordance with what is advocated by ZPG. I remind him that whatever we do will not make any difference in the world. We have something like 0.02 per cent of the world's population. I reject the philosophy of Zero Population Growth. In my view the Labor Party has no real interest in women's causes. It has real interest only in women's votes. 
I would like to list very quickly 4 examples of the anomalies which have been created by this legislation and other legislation and of what I claim to be the double standards of the Labor Party. Perhaps they have not been intentional but they have been created. In the first place, the contraceptive pill is designed to prevent the creation of life. The Government has removed sales tax from it. I applaud that step. But life jackets and life belts under some circumstances are still subject to 15 per cent sales tax, and obviously life jackets and life belts are used to save lives. So here is an example of the double standards under which the Labor Party is operating. On the one hand it is removing sales tax from something that will prevent the creation of life, but on the other hand it is charging 15 per cent tax on articles which save life. 
If the parents of the honourable gentleman were as interested in contraceptives as he is we would not have a problem with him in the House, tonight. 
I happen to be the eldest child. The second double standard, if I may use that expression, under which the Labor Party is operating may be seen from a comparison of the so-called health policy of the Labor Party with its immigration policy. No matter what any honourable member opposite says, the health policy of the Labor Party is to seek ultimately to control the natural increase of the Australian population. I refer to some papers which were used at the Labor Party Conference in Launceston in 1971  as  the background upon which the Labor Party  your Party,  Mr Deputy Speaker  based its health policy. I refer to the recommendations that contraceptives be supplied on the free pharmaceutical benefits list, that the advertising of contraceptives should be legal and that there should be a vigorous Government sponsored education campaign aimed at explaining the population crisis I would say that there is no population crisis in this country; quite the opposite and the means of solving it. Other recommendations in the paper were that the national attitude must be changed so that women are encouraged to educate and retrain themselves for occupations outside the home and that it is important to stress the selfishness of having another baby. This is the philosophy upon which the Labor Party is basing its health policy the control of the natural increase of Australian children. At the same time the Labor Party has a new policy on immigration. I would like to quote from one of the many statements made by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  and so far as I can see the only clear statement he has ever made. On 27th December he was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' as having said: 
The emphasisin future immigration programs will be on sponsorship, and family reunion will be given a high priority. 
So, on the one hand, the Australian Labor Party wishes to control the natural increase of Australian born children while on the other hand allowing the uncontrolled immigration of people into Australia, irrespective of their country of origin and including nonEuropeans, merely on a family basis. So, we will stop the increase of Australian born children and encourage the increase of foreign born children. That is another of the double standards under whichI believe the Government is operating. 
Let me give a third example of this Government's double standards. While we may accept that there should be no tax, or a reduced tax, on the contraceptive pill, as I do, it is quite a different matter to put the contraceptive pill on the subsidised pharmaceutical benefits list. This means that all taxpayers who do not use the pill I am one who does not are subsidising those who do. Those who oppose its use on religious or conscience grounds are subsidising those who do use it. Those women who aresuited on medical grounds to the use of the pill, and companies which pay tax, and other taxpayers, are all required under Commonwealth law to pay a portion of their taxes for this purpose. Why should I and why should they have to pay extra tax to subsidise the pill takers? They are not compelled to take the pill but I am compelled to pay the tax. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the Premier of my own State of South Australia all say that it is perfectly proper, if one does not believe in a law, to break that law. But what would they and the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  who is sitting at the table, say if I decided that I was not going to pay all my taxes because it was against my belief that part of my tax should pay for the contraceptive pill? That is my next point. The cost to the taxpayer of providing this subsidy is enormous. The pill costs a patient $1 for a full cycle pack, or will cost 50c from next April. 
I have done a lot of research on this subject. The sales tax which is to be removed is a shade under 20c. Each prescription costs the Government and the Government is the taxpayer 38c; so 38c is the taxpayer's subsidy to the pill taker. It has been estimated by, I think, honourable members opposite, that this will cost over $5m this year and, after 1st April, over $8m for a full year. I wonder what will happen when they produce a male contraceptive pill. I suppose that will be on the free list and will be exempt from sales tax. 
I should like to quote from the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits. This Committee sat during the last Parliament and made recommendations to the Government which, I think, were distributed yesterday. There were 3 members of the Australian Labor Party on that Committee  Mr Berinson, Dr Gun  and  Mr Hayden  who is now the Minister for Social Security. For anybody who cares to read the report, I am quoting from page 45. On this subject the Committee made the following recommendation: 
The Committee recommended that: 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee consider the listing of oral contraceptives where required for certain specific medical reasons; 
The Committee recommended that, under certain conditions, oral contraceptives should go on the national health scheme. The report continued: 
The Commonwealth provides substantial subsidies for the expansion of Family Planning Clinics. 
The point is that this Committee, which was a Select Committee, did not recommend that the pill should go on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme for all. In addition to these amounts of money, the new Government is allocating over $250,000 to family planning agencies. I agree with that and applaud it. 
As my friend, the honourable member for Angas said, it is chicken feed. It is ironical to learn that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  shortly proposes to double child endownment. I am opposed to the pill being on the free list and I would prefer to see these funds of $5m, or S8m from next year, allocated to family planning agencies rather than the present system of subsidising the use of the pill and other devices - and they are being subsidised - because family planning agencies provide counselling and advice across the whole range of family welfare problems. 
In the same way, I would like to see some of this money and other money being used to establish child minding centres and for the expansion of such organisations as the Mothers and Babies Health Association Incorporated of South Australia. There are, no doubt, equivalent organisations and other local community organisations in other States. In talking to social workers - and I have talked to many of them over the years - the message comes through, to me at any rate, consistently and clearly that the hangups and problems are not due only to ignorance in regard to sexual practices but rather to the inability of husband and wife to communicate. In my view, this is the basis of so many problems within the community. We would get value from expenditure on family planning, counselling advice and child minding centres. Perhaps if we spend money in this area, these problems will decline with future generations. In my view, simply making the contraceptive pill available for next to nothing is not in any way treating the cause of a lot of the unhappiness that exists within our society, and I regard it as a hollow gesture by the Australian Labor Party to the electors. 
The fourth example of what I regard as this Government's double standards concerns the comparison between a woman who takes the contraceptive pill to prevent conception and the woman who undertakes treatment to promote fertility or to prevent a threatened miscarriage or who seeks that sort of treatment. Honourable members will find that the position is that the woman who wishes to prevent conception is at a financial advantage against those who desire to protect the life of the foetus or to promote fertility. Preparations to promote conception include such drugs as Clomid and the hormone preparation Primantron. Clomid does not attract sales tax, but it is not available on the pharmaceutical benefits list and is available through pharmacists only in the Australian Capital Territory, South Australia and Tasmania. In those States and that Territory the patient must pay $10 for this drug. Duphaston. which is also a hormone preparation and is sometimes used to promote fertility or to prevent abortion - I trust that the medical men in the chamber will not disagree with that because I have a friend who has undergone this treatmentcosts $19 for 100 tablets. So, the position is that the protection of the foetus is subject to financial penalty, quite apart from the cost of rearing a child, while prevention of conception and, therefore, prevention of the natural increase of Australian born children is subsidised by the taxpayer. 1 put it to the House that that is a double standard. 
In addition, the pill has been in general use in Australia for over 10 years. Those who advocate its wider use - there are honourable members opposite who have done that tonight - say that it prevents the social distress of unwanted pregnancies. However, unwanted pregnancies and illegitimate births continue to rise at an accelerating rate. A survey conducted by a Brisbane medical group and reported in the 'Australian' last October shows that, of the 60 per cent of married women who have unplanned babies and who approve the pill, only 6 per cent found it too costly. Its subsidy by the taxpayer cannot even be justified on the grounds of control of the population growth. At a growth rate of 1.2 per cent, Australia is at the upper limit of population control in the developed countries of the world. I am not at all sure that future generations - this has been with us for only 10 years - will decide that the introduction of the contraceptive pill was beneficial to our society. Only last week there was a brief report in the 
Australian Press concerning the staggering increase of venereal disease patients in Britain. I refer members to the report in the 'Canberra Times' of 5th March which states: 
Treatment clinics in Central Southern England had 13,090 new patients last year, more than 2,000 higher than in 1971 and including more teenagers. In the 4 years to 1971, the national incidence of VD rose by 70.04 per cent. 
On the same day details of the position in Western Australia were published by the Department of Health in that State. Time will not permit me to read the whole article but I will read the important parts. The Acting Deputy Commissioner of Health in Western Australia stated: 
Venereal disease is out of control. We have a big and serious problem. It is going to cost a lot of money and a long time to control. 
He also said: 
Changes in the chemistry of a woman taking the pill make her more receptive to the disease. A woman's chance of catching VD if she is not taking the pill is reduced by about 40 per cent. 
The point I am making is that perhaps future generations may not thank governments like ours for encouraging the use of the pill. My purpose in taking part in the debate has been simply to draw attention to the anomalies which are created in this legislation and which always are created when governments make decisions quickly without thinking out the consequences but simply to gain votes. We could have done it to gain votes but we did not. I wish we had, but I should have liked to have spent more time sorting out the anomalies. I agree with the abolition of this tax on contraceptives but I recommend that the Government look at the sales tax schedule thoroughly and eliminate some of the other anomalies I have mentioned. I also ask the Government to look at the other anomalies which exist in the treatment of women, which I have also mentioned. 
The present policy is one of selective subsidising and is beneficial to only one section of the female population. If the Government is sincere in its expressed intention to improve the lot of women, it should ensure that it helps all and not just some. It should begin by considering the ways in which women are disadvantaged when competing with men. It should recognise the financial disability caused by basic female biological functions. In my view it should subsidise, for example, essential pharmaceutical items which all women are obliged to use rather than just subsidise the contraceptive pill. The pill is not yet compulsory medication in Australia. Under the 'Big Brother' socialist philosophy of the Australian Labor Party - spelt out by some honourable members tonight - some day I suppose it will be compulsory. 
I take this opportunity, during the grievance debate, to draw attention to what I consider to be a highly undesirable practice which has occurred in this Parliament and no doubt will occur again. To my mind, it is an abuse of parliamentary privilege. I am referring to the habit which some honourable members have, and have had over the years, of practising character assassination, of lying about the reputation of other honourable members and of using parliamentary privilege to do it. I was a victim on a few occasions in the previous Parliament. Prior to the closure of the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House one evening, I was attacked by a member who was - I do not know whether I can use this word, but I will find out shortly - lying about me. Because there was only 2 minutes to go before the House rose, it was impossible to respond, although the statements that he made were demonstrably lies. This member charged me with spending the whole of that day using the facilities of this place, the telephone primarily, to contact people in Adelaide in order to influence the way in which my Party conference would vote. 
You,  Mr Speaker,  and every member of the House would know that it is not possible for any of us to know what anyone else is doing with his telephone. So, the statement was demonstrably a lie. The headline in the Press the next day was to the effect that I had been telephoning Adelaide all day for party purposes. That is the way in which the report appeared. I think that sooner or later honourable members will have to see that this sort of thing is prevented. Any honourable member could be a victim. I suggest that today the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was attacked in precisely this way. Just prior to the suspension of the sitting for lunch - 
1 take the point and agree with you,  Mr Speaker.  That is the point that I am making. Sometimes the forms of the House are abused, but there is no way in which you can know whether the things that an honourable member is saying are true or false. When the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  finished his speech the honourable member for Mackellar made a personal explanation, as you will remember, in which he categorically denied what the Minister said. But, in a sense, the damage was done. The Minister made no effort to respond to any of the charges made by the honourable member; he simply regurgitated some fabrication. I use that word in deference to your ruling,  Mr Speaker.  The honourable member for Mackellar made certain charges. The Minister's reply was quite irrelevant to the subject under discussion and did not answer any of the charges. I think that we should be on our guard against this sort of thing. 
The honourable member charged the Minister with maintaining a network of informers in the trade union movement, particularly in the Australian Workers Union, tor the purpose of terrifying those people who oppose him. The Minister did not respond. It seems to me, as the honourable member for Mackellar said, that it was bad enough, when the Minister was simply the member for Hindmarsh, to have this sort of arrangement in the trade union movement but now that he is the Minister for Labour, which is the portfolio administering industrial matters, he seeks to use his Department to assist him in his strong arm activities. That was the second charge laid by the honourable member for Mackellar. To substantiate that, he read a letter from the Minister which was written on ministerial letterhead and in which the Minister actually attacked the honourable member and implied the very thing that the honourable member had charged the Minister with doing. I support the honourable member strongly. He is drawing attention to the impropriety of the Minister's action and to his evasiveness. The honourable member for Mackellar talked about coercion, intimidation and the subsequent progression to violence to which this sort of action will lead. I suppose all of us who have been in this place for some time will have had some experience with this sort of thing. 1 have had members of trade unions, and others who have not been prepared to join trade unions, visiting mc because they had been muscled, and there was nothing I could do. 
Ii seems to me that the trade union leaders should be protecting people like this. I have had visits from people who had been leaned on to join the Amalgamated Postal Workers Union; 1 have had visits from sheet metal workers and drivers to whom pressure had been applied. I have had one man to see me upon whom pressure was being put to try to force him to join a cleaners union. He was attacked and he is now on an invalid pension as a result. There is a court case history to prove that. This is the sort of thing to which the honourable member for Mackellar was drawing attention. The policy of the Australian Labor Party, outlined at Townsville in 1971 will, if carried out, seek to place the sort of person who is violent in trade union activities above the law. I do not think this is a pipe dream or that it is in any way unreasonable to bring this forward. 
We have had the experience of seeing violence in trade union activities within the last 6 months. Honourable members opposite will take no notice of what 1 am saying because they owe their jobs and positions to trade union leaders and bosses. But I should like to quote what another trade unionist had to say about this matter on 22nd August last year. I am referring to the statements of the Assistant Secretary of the New South Wales Labor Council,  Mr John  Ducker. He ought to be an authority to whom most of us would listen. The report contained in the Melbourne Herald' stated: 

 Mr Ducker warned today of the dangers of communism within the trade union movement. I hesitate to mention the word 'communism'. It immediately seems to arouse the ire of honourable members opposite. Apparently if we mention communism or that sort of activity we are instantly discredited. So, I point out that on this occasion it was not I who used the word, although I have used it plenty of times and will continue to do so. I am quoting the words of  Mr Ducker,  the Assistant Secretary of the New South Wales Labor Council who was involved in a union confrontation and physically attacked. This was the sort of thing that he had to say in the article: ..... a 'complete communist take-over' was a definite possibility if rank and file members remained apathetic. 

 Mr Ducker was regarded as a progressive centre liner in the Australian Labor Party, although I am not quite sure what that means. He was a former official of the Federated Ironworkers' Federation. The article continued: 

 Mr Ducker was kicked and abused, after a meeting of striking plumbers yesterday. 
That was in August last year. The article continued: 
Only that police intervened. I am sure that I and two other union officials would have been kicked insensible'..... 
Is it reasonable for us to draw attention to this form of intimidation? I am sure it is. The article continued: 
This was a deliberate attempt at intimidation. I am not one to kick the communist 'can', but I warn all unionists that communist-inspired violence will continue unless they are vigilant.' 
I think it is arrogant of the Minister for Labour to assume that all unionists are automatically supporters of his Party. I can assure honourable members that the Liberal Party could not possibly get the support it does if it did not receive support from trade union members. The article continued: 
About SO men followed  Mr Ducker  and union organisers,  Mr Ken  Tyler and  Mr Les  McMahon, from the meeting and abused them. 
Let's not be fanciful about what happened yesterday,'  Mr Ducker  said..... 'not only were we abused and kicked by the vigilante group of 50 men but officials of the Plumbers' Union were told that their cars would be bombed, and that chunks of concrete would be thrown at them if they returned to their jobs'..... 'unless we are careful, and unless rank and file members become interested, the union scene will became reminiscent of the violent roaring 20s in America'. 
I think that it was important for the honourable member for Mackellar to draw attention to the implied threat he received from the Minister for Labour. I think that it is time that the Minister for Labour gave straight answers to straight questions. I think it is time he stopped going around the countryside saying one thing one day and another thing the next day. That in my book is the sort of language which we cannot describe with the adjective that it really deserves because that adjective is unparliamentary. I trust that the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is sitting at the table and who will no doubt follow me in the debate, will give us straight answers to some of these straight questions. 
Might I rise to that point of order. I do not want to labour the point. 
I want to raise a point of order following your explanation. I do not want to take up anybody's time. For example, I could have said today or at any time that I heard the Minister for Immigration, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  say that he would import one million Japanese to work in the Riverina district picking f r ait. If I say that here all that the honourable member for Riverina can do is deny it; and we all know that it is not true. But there is nothing to stop the Press or anyone interested referring to that the next day and saying th.it it was said in the House of Representatives. It is that aspect of this sort of vilification that I want to draw to the attention of the House. 
1 should like to congratulate the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  on another well considered and useful speech which is typical of his contributions to the Parliament when we on this side were in government and now that we are in Opposition. It is a great shame that there are not more honourable members on the Government side of the House to listen to him. I am not surprised that there are not more Government supporters in the House because the position is that they feel the same embarrassment about talking on these Bills as we would if we were in government. There is a long list of honourable members on this side of the House who wish to take part in this debate and I trust that they will all be given the opportunity to do so. This is a cognate debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 3) 1972-73 and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1972-73. I wish to refer particularly to Appropriation Bill (No. 3). I make the point that we are discussing the appropriation of additional funds to finance the additional departments which have been set up by the new Government in what one could well describe as a Parkinson's law operation. 
 I thank the honourable member for the interjection because that is all it is. The honourable member for Curtin mentioned the fact that in the last Government there were only 27 Ministries and in this one there are 37 - 10 more. It is the additional amount of money to be appropriated that we are discussing - more than $57m. I want to indicate where some of that money is to go and in particular I want to speak in regard to unemployment benefits but before I do so I should like to ask a question of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  because a private member has less than Buckley's hope of asking a question during question time, these days, as you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I wish to refer to an appropriation of nearly $llm for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. It is set out in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) under division 245 - Administrative. I realise that the Minister is away and will not be able to do this tonight but I trust that he will tell the House at some time where that money is to be spent. I think that the House is entitled to some sort of accounting for the proposed expenditure of $12m. I do not think it is proper that the Minister should just sign this and that and dispose of such an enormous amount of money without any accounting; yet that is what I understand the position is going to be. 
I do not know where the Acting Minister is but the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  is away sick. I trust that he will give us this information in due course. I turn to other appropriations in this Bill and particularly to those amounts to be spent in respect of unemployment benefits. I want to refer to a couple of things that the Government continues to say. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and almost all of his Ministers, probably with the exception of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  who is at the table, use the expression whenever they propose action which is controversial: 'We have a mandate'. 
I think we are on the beam because I put it to the House that the Government does not have a mandate in the way that it thinks it has. I remind the Government that there is a difference of only 3 per cent between the number of electors who supported it and the number who did not support it at the last election. So, it does not have such a mandate. It certainly does not have a mandate to do as it has said, namely, to change the structure of Australian society. 
I think it would be highly desirable to stir Government members up and get them out of their burrows. They have no mandate to change Australian society. Certainly they have no mandate to destroy Australian society. From the cliches used by some of the Government members this is precisely what they are about to do. 'Redistribution of income' is another famous expression. I say that the Government has no mandate to redistribute income, to punish those who are prepared to work and to support those who wish to live in idleness at the expense of those who wish to work. If this is what the Government means by redistribution of income, it. does not have such a mandate. 
I should like to draw attention to some figures on the question of unemployment benefits. I put the view to the House that the proposed unemployment benefits represent the most retrograde step that this retrograde Government is ever likely to introduce. I refer to the proposal to pay unemployment benefits at the adult rate to minors. As the Minister for Services and Property, who is now at the table, nods in agreement I take it that he agrees with this policy. I am making a plea in the national interest. The Minister appears to support my plea for what we believe to be in the national interest. 
Let us take the hypothetical situation - this could well happen - of a husband and a wife with 3 children over the age of 16 and under the age of 21 - or any age over 16. If the whole family goes to the unemployment office and says, in effect, that the members of the family do not want to work and that they are unemployable - it is easy to find a way of proving such a claim - they can draw $102 a week in unemployment benefits. Does anyone on the Government side of the House deny that? That family can receive over $5,000 a year for doing nothing. Add to that amount the cost of fringe benefits and the fact that the total unemployment benefit is not subject to income tax and we are talking about a very satisfactory income. I make the point that the Government is operating under double standards. On the one hand it wants to prop up to this quite fantastic extent people who are not prepared to work. On the other hand, last week the Government appeared in the national wage case and supported the case for an increase of the minimum wage to the handsome figure of $65 a week, as I understand it. I ask the House: What will the conscientious, hardworking person, whether he be Australian born or a migrant, on $65 a week, with a wife and 3 or 4 children say about working for that wage when he can go to the unemployment office with his family and draw in excess of $102 a week without doing a tap of work. This proposal will completely destroy incentive. 
The best thing such a person can do is to go onto unemployment benefits. 
I looked at a document today which 1 would commend to the House. It was produced by the Commonwealth Statistician in May 1971. It is the 'Survey of Average Weekly Earnings'. The average weekly earnings in May 1971 for an adult male were $89.50. The number of adult males earning $80 a week or less was 892,000 and the number earning $100 a week or less was 1.5 million. That is, 1.5 million adult males in Australia were earning less than what it is possible for such a person and his family to draw in unemployment benefits. How can anyone justify that situation? At this moment there are 29,000 people estimated to be on the minimum wage of $54 a week in Australia. Receiving less than the wage of $64 a week, which will be the new minimum wage, there are nearly 250,000 people. So what I am saying is that this question of making a judgment on whether one will work and be punished or go on unemployment benefits, is of distinct interest to 250,000 people in Australia. I should like to put the position - and I trust that the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will answer me-  
He will not. Of course, he will not. If the Minister says anything he will talk about something that happened in Indo-China in 1846. 1 turn now to the position of unemployed 16-year-olds. There are many of them. I know of some personally. I am sure all honourable members do. The children of some families leave school and decide that they do not want to work. They can register for unemployment benefits. With the passage of the relevant legislation they will receive $21.50 a week plus the fringe benefits of free medical, pharmaceutical and hospital entitlements. An unemployed 16-year-old will receive $21.50 a week for doing nothing. I take as an example an apprentice fitter. The Party which the Government represents is supposed to be the Party of the workers. It is supposed to represent those on salaries - the blue collar workers. The Opposition represents all people in the community. 
I do not think I am kidding too many honourable members on the opposite wide. There are only 5 or 6 of them present in the House. 
I appreciate the help from the honourable gentleman. He belongs to the academic wing of the Labor Party - the socialist wing - which is attracted to the Party on ideological grounds. The bulk of the people on the other side of the House came up through the trade union movement. They are supposed to represent people who work for wages. I am making the point that they do not represent these people. A 16-year-old apprentice fitter undertaking a 5-year  course  earns $28.64 a week. He is the highest paid young man of that age that I could find on ordinary award rates. A shop assistant receives $27.80 a week, a clerk earns $28.10 a week; and a storeman receives $24.05 a week. Some juvenile workers, at least in South Australia, earn $13.50 a week at the age of 16. Females receive even less. The Labor Party is supposed to be taking the lead in seeking equal pay for women, equal opportunity and so on. But here is a case where this policy certainly does not apply. A juvenile worker actually receives $8 a week less than someone who draws an unemployment benefit. 
As my colleague has said, the Labor Party is the Party representing the non-workers. That is a very good point. 
The Labor Party represents the professional bludgers in the community. One could say: 'No wonder some young people stay at home instead of going to work'. These young people are in the minority but this Government wants to encourage that form of lethargy and laziness. We do not. This Government is out to destroy incentive and self-confidence and will turn the young people of this country into a conglomeration of professional bludgers. We all know that there is a very strong personal antipathy between the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and there is this constant contest between them for the control of funds. 
I would like to quote what the Minister for Social Security had to say about eligibility for unemployment benefits. I am still not sure who speaks for this department in the Government. I do not know whether it is the 
Minister for Social Security or the Minister for Labour. Could someone on the other side of the House tell me? 
They do not know, there is no response at all, and I do not know either. The position is, as I have said, that virtually anybody can claim unemployment benefits by establishing that he is unemployable, and that is what the Minister for Social Security sets down as his criterion. An article headed Hairy jobless can get dole' appeared in the Age' of 13th January and another article based on the same press release appeared on 19th February. The article in the 'Age' stated: 
The Minister for Social Welfare  (Mr Hayden)  has stood up for the rights of long-haired youths to draw unemployment benefits. 
Employers have sometimes refused to employ people because of their appearance - particularly long hair and 'mod' clothes. 

 Mr Hayden said he had directed officials that in such cases, the applicant should no longer lose bis employment benefits. 
The Minister said: 
Employers are a small minority in the community 
This is doctrinaire socialism -  and they have no God-given right to impose hair style and mode of dress on other people,' . . . 
He said he wanted to set up an informal and independent appeals system against decisions by his officials - 
And so on and so on. The truth is that long hair is not a criterion. We have the evidence around us. When we go into a government department every other young person employed there has long hair. Therefore it is not correct to say that long hair is a criterion. The situation is that those people who do not want to work just go to the employment service, are allotted to an employer and make themselves so objectionable that the employer will not employ them and then they go on $21.50 a week plus free medical, hospital and other benefits. 
Unfortunately time will not permit me to quote examples of other authorities such as local governing authorities which have made the point that special funds allotted to them by the Commonwealth Government have not been used because they have been unable to employ people for the reason that those people just do not want to work. It is ridiculous to say that there is unemployment in this country. It is true that there is a level of unemployment but also there is opportunity for those who are unemployed to work. The Chief Engineer from the Mosman Council is reported in February as saying: 
Since the relief work started on January 24, 26 men have left, three were dismissed for misconduct, one refused to work and two were round sleeping on the job after being warned. 
These men simply do not want to remain in employment. 
There were none left. Quotations of this sort can be obtained from an enormous number of agencies. I could refer, if time permitted, to experiences in New Zealand and Canada. In Canada a jobless man can draw as much as $100 a week provided he works for 16 weeks in 52 weeks. The Australian Government is going as hard as it can to copy what is being done in Canada. I suggest that  Mr Trudeau  only just retained office by one seat because of the discontent in Canada where unemployment was so high. 
In Adelaide  Mr Branson,  the  President  of the South Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, had this to say about a month ago: . . 
It is strange that there is such a number on unemployment relief and yet it is almost impossible to obtain labour for full-time, long-term employment. ' 
He went on to say: 
In the Brighton area a company that employs about 80 people is considering cutting out a shift because it cannot recruit a further eight workers. 
This sort of situation exists all over' Australia. Once again in South Australia, the personnel manager of Chrysler Australia Ltd said about 3 weeks ago that his company's employment office had been open all day but few people had applied. He went on to say that Chrysler Was having to relax its age limits for vacancies and was taking on more women workers. We believe - and I think that I can say that this is Liberal philosophy - that generous unemployment benefits should be paid to people who really need them. I would, strongly support any move to make generous unemployment benefits available to, for example, someone who is redundant, someone whose firm has been taken over and which does not have a vacancy for him or a sick wage earner such as the head of a family who has children. 
We on this side of the House say that until people who suffer misfortune can re-establish themselves they should be given every opportunity for rehabilitation and that neither they nor their families should suffer financially. 
But the bludger, the professional idler, the parasite on this community who just will not work should not, in my opinion at any rate, be paid unemployment benefits. In the certain belief that I will not be granted an extension of time I will not have the opportunity to quote the irrefutable evidence of authorities around Australia- 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the official Yugoslav publication Svet of 8th December last which published the story of Ivan Mudrinic relaxing in Belgrade after escaping from the 'terror and threats in Australia', to quote the article? In view of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation's report on the Warburton dynamite case and the references in it to Mudrinic. will the Prime Minister examine the Croatian documents again and in particular the ASIO theory that Mudrinic was a government agent planted in Australia by UDBA the Yugoslav secret police? 
asked the Minister for Immigration, upon notice: 
How many, persons have received Australian citizenship since election of the present Government. 
How many of these persons were denied citizenship by the former Government. 
Of those formerly denied citizenship, how many had been convicted of offences against State or Federal laws. 
How many (a) naturalised citizens and (b) persons who are not naturalised are being considered for deportation. 
How many (a) naturalised citizens and (b) persons who are not naturalised have been deported on his authority. 
What is the country of origin of each of these persons. 
Which countries have received or will be receiving the deportees. 
Which Commonwealth Act provides the authority. 
Is any person to be or being deported solely because of his political beliefs; if so, what are these beliefs. 
If not, can he provide a short summary of each person's record upon which the decision has been based. 
Has any other Minister power to authorise deportations. 
If so, which Minister and what is the authority. 
Has any person been deported, or is under consideration to be deported under any other Act or on the authority of any, other Minister. 
 I wish to contribute briefly to this debate. Originally I intended to speak at the Committee stage and I may still do so. I have been compelled to take part at this stage by some of the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh).  I have in mind particularly his reference to the previous Government as a government of war and to the present Government as a government of peace. I would be very pleased if someone would explain to me what is meant by the expression 'a government of peace'. The implication is that we are seeking to wage war on people. I and other honourable members on this side of the chamber resent that implication. A better description of the Government would be that it is a government of peaceful surrender. The honourable member for Bowman also said that we brought people in forcibly to serve. Clearly he was referring to national service. Today the Government is bribing people to serve on the cheap, secure in the knowledge that because it is a government of peace there will bc no fighting. This is quite a revolutionary change in the philosophy of war service. 
Yes, 'revolutionary' is a dangerous word. Revolutions are fought all round the world. I wish now to draw attention to the change in philosophy in this Bill because there will be no other opportunity. I have been reading through the records of the debates on war service homes legislation. The philosophy expressed in 1951 was the same as that of 1918; that is, people were assisted financially to buy homes who had rendered service to this country overseas in wartime, or had volunteered to go overseas but for some reason beyond their control had not served overseas. I did not catch the interjection. 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice: 
Does the application of the Government's policy to abolish the Means Test provide for its continuing liberalisation before final abolition can be achieved. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is he able to confirm or deny that a decision has been taken by the Government which will ensure that in future all Colombo Plans students from Vietnam will come from North Vietnam? 
It looks as though the Parliament will not have the opportunity to debate foreign affairs, for very good reasons. I wish to enter this debate to draw attention to aspects of the Government's foreign affairs and internal affairs policies which I think should be drawn to the attention of the Australian public. I make the point that since this Government has been in office there has been a quite dramatic change of emphasis in our relations with other countries. When the previous Government was in power we were endeavouring to arrange an accommodation with the communist countries, slowly but surely, while still retaining our friendship with countries like the United States of America. Since the Whitlam Government has been in power the reverse has since been the case. It has gone out of its way to curry favour with the communist countries and to insult some of our former - and indeed present - allies. 
I am thinking in particular of the way in which 3 of the Ministers in the Whitlam Government deliberately insulted the  President  of the United States and the way that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself deliberately insulted Thailand. The  Deputy  Foreign Minister of Thailand responded and told him, I think in so many words, to mind his own bloody business. I think also of the way the Prime Minister insulted the Indonesian Government and was rebuked by  Dr Malik;  of the way that he and his  deputy,  the Minister for Defence,  (Mr Barnard)  managed to insult the Prime Minister of Singapore over the socalled 'spy-unit'; of the way that his Ministers, I think 10 of them, and 25 private members of the Australian Labor Party have finally and totally insulted everyone who has ever served in Vietnam by their entertainment of the Viet Cong and the North Vietnamese, even in the parliamentary dining room. I think also of the way the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  has managed to put the heavy hand on  Mr Somare,  the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea and the way that the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr Cairns)  is at this very moment insulting the people of Cambodia by spending a lot of time with and currying favour with Prince Sihanouk and some of his entourage. 
I make the point that the foreign affairs policy of this Government is one of poking its nose into other people's business and doing its best to curry favour with communist countries. I say that the Government is moving too fast and that it takes time and understanding to negotiate with communist countries. People like the Prime Minister have allowed the adulation of sections of the Press and other media to go to their heads. The Prime Minister overlooks the fact- 
Yes, he is getting a pretty free run by most sections of the media. The tragic part is that he is blundering in and making mistakes which some time in the future governments probably of our persuasion will have to remedy. He overlooks the fact, when dealing with the regime in Communist China, that there are no real freedoms in China. The regime there does not even speak for the population. There are no elections in communist China. The number of people who try to leave that country would indicate that it is not the best place in the world to live. 
A point I should like specifically to mention today arose from the visit of the  President  of Yugoslavia to Australia a few weeks ago. He was formerly and probably still is the chief of the Yugoslav secret police. While he was being entertained by the Australian Prime 
Minister he knew all the time that 3 Australian citizens had been murdered in Yugoslavia. The Prime Minister shows naivete in taking for granted everything that the communist leaders tell him. I wish to bring to the notice of this House and to the Australian electorate what the Prime Minister said at a dinner to the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia on 21st March. I have been trying to obtain information from the Prime Minister on this. But like others on this side of the House, I have difficulty in getting even questions on notice, let alone questions without notice, answered. At a dinner in Canberra on 21st March 1973 the Prime Minister said, amongst many other things, as reported in the 'Canberra Times* of 22nd March: 
Yet I have to state as a cold fact that every known act of grave violence on political grounds perpetrated in Australia in recent years has come from the extremist Right 
The Prime Minister is talking to one of his Ministers on the front bench and making out that he is not listening to what I have to say. I trust that he will do me the courtesy of at least reading my speech in Hansard and giving me some replies. Old fashioned courtesy is something which he obviously has forgotten. As he turns his back in majesty and walks out of the chamber at this moment, let us not forget that he is not really trained in the old fashioned courtesies. 
I have 58 examples of political violence in this country which I ask the Prime Minister to study and indicate which right wing groups are the perpetrators. There is no time to read them into Hansard, and unfortunately it is not possible under the Standing Orders to get them into the questions without notice. For example, on 4th July 1969 a dozen or so youths in 3 cars broke 18 windows of the United States Consulate-General in Melbourne. Anonymous callers to radio stations claimed responsibility on behalf of the People's Liberation Army. The damage was assessed at $500. I would like to know which right wing organisation perpetrated that attack. 
In August 1969 the car belonging to the honourable member for Boothby was severely damaged in the grounds of the University of Adelaide while he was addressing a meeting there. The people responsible telephoned him and claimed responsibility on behalf of the People's Liberation Army. The damage was $300. I would like the Prime Minister to tell us which right wing group was responsible for that. Does he mean that it is the right wing which is responsible when I am being attacked? It is a crazy situation. No one in this country has ever suggested that I am a left winger. On 8th October 1969 a small bomb was thrown on to the verandah of the residence of  Mr Andrew  Jones who was then the member for Adelaide in the House of Representatives. I do not think anyone would ever suggest that  Mr Jones  is a left winger. In fact,  Mr Jones  was subjected to this sort of vilification and terrorism for some time just before the last election. 
On 12th November 1969 bricks were thrown through the windows of the Reserve Bank of Australia and Ansett Transport Industries Ltd in Melbourne. Responsibility was claimed on behalf of the Australian Liberation Army. Damage was over S3.000. This pattern goes all the way through the 58 examples that I have. In May 1970 windows at Honeywell Pty Ltd and the windows of the headquarters of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation were broken. I do not know whether that could have been an earlier attack by  Senator Murphy  on ASIO. In May 1970 there was a violent and destructive raid by vigilantes from the Builders Labourers Federation.  Mr Mundey  is Secretary of that union, as we all know. I do not really think that we can describe it as an extreme right wing organisation.  Mr Mundey  is Federal Secretary and a member of the national committee of the Communist Party. Of course, we cannot mention Communists around here. In July 1970 Molotov cocktails were thrown into the Melbourne premises of Australian General Electric Pty Ltd. Damages amounting to $10,000 were caused, and responsibility was claimed by the People's Liberation Army. 
About a fortnight before the last election the electorate office of the honourable member for Boothby was attacked by the People's Liberation Army. Rocks were thrown into his office and obscene messages scrawled all over those windows which survived the raid. Once again, I do not think one can really describe the honourable member for Boothby as being a leftist.  Mr Speaker,  what I think the Party, of which you unfortunately are a member, should do is have a look at its constitution and rules and in particular the section which contains a repudiation of the Communist Party. I note that that section of the general policy decision of the Australian Labor Party has not been altered since the 1948 conference. It has been reaffirmed every year by the Party. The 
Platform, Constitution and Rules' of the Australian Labor Party states: 
Conference reaffirms its repudiation of the methods and principles of the Communist Party and the decisions of previous Conferences that between the Communist Party and the Labor Party there is such basic hostility- 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government taken any action to protest against (a) the judicial murder of a family of 5 Iraqi Jews in Baghdad and the previous public hanging of Jews in that city; (b) the detention and murder of Pakistani prisoners-of-war in Indian POW camps; and (c) the judicial murder of Asian and Ugandan citizens in Uganda. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did he state at a dinner for the Yugoslav Prime Minister that it is a cold fact that every known act of grave violence on political grounds perpetrated in Australia in recent years has come from the extremist Right. 
If so, can he say where and when these known acts of grave violence occurred, who was the perpetrator of each of these acts, and what proof of the political views of the perpetrator in each case was available. 
asked the Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, upon notice: 
Will racially selected sporting teams be permitted to land in Australia en route to the Commonwealth Games in New Zealand. 
In view of General Amin's statement that no Asians, not even Ugandan Asians, will be selected for Ugandan sports teams, will a racially selected Ugandan team be permitted to land in Australia. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity of Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the fact that there are no free elections in Yugoslavia, does he consider that the Yugoslav Government is more representative of its Croatian majority than the Smith Rhodesian Government is representative of its African majority? Can he assure the Australian people that his Government will do all in its power to prevent activities in Australia which may assist terrorists in Yugoslavia, Rhodesia or any other country? Is he aware that a leader of the terrorist organisation responsible for the abduction and murder of 23 black Rhodesians near the Zambian border last week is in Australia seeking financial and material aid? Is his Government's welcome for this person consistent with its interrogation and persecution of alleged Croatian terrorists in Australia? Will he give me an objective reply free from both smear and sneer? 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Can he say how many Soviet naval units and mercantile marine units have been deployed in - 
The Pacific Ocean and 
The Indian Ocean during the 9 months ended 31 March 1973. 
If so, what classes and types of vessels were involved. 
Can he supply similar statistics for the preceding 3 years. 
<para pgwide="yes">MrBarnard - The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) My Department has available to it some information on the presence of Soviet and other naval vessels in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. 
<para pgwide="yes">In the Indian Ocean, the Soviet Union has no naval bases; the ships it positions there are drawn from the Pacific and Atlantic Fleets. Deployments from October 1971 to March 1973 were: 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What funds have been made available, since 2 December 1972, to religious or other agencies, such as the United Nations, for the specific purpose of combatting racial discrimination in foreign countries. 
In respect of which countries will these funds be spent. 
Are these the only countries in the region where racial discrimination occurs; if not, which other countries in the region practise racial discrimination, and does the Government intend making funds available for use in these countries. 
Which countries in the region do not practise racial discrimination. 
How and to whom is this expenditure accountable. 
What control does the Government have over the choice of projects. 
Is it possible for the funds to be used for other purposes, such as revolution, wars of national liberation, terrorism or guerilla activities in other countries. 
asked the Minister for Air, upon notice: 
Was the curfew at Adelaide Airport broken by a V.I.P. aircraft on Wednesday, 8 March 1973. 
If so, (a) for whom was the flight ordered, (b) who were the passengers and (c) upon whose authority was the curfew broken. 
asked the Minister for Immi  gration, upon notice: 
What are the provisions for entry into Australia of citizens of Rhodesia, 
Is there any discrimination on ethnic or racial grounds when determining entry policy. 
Under what provisions were  Mr Simbarashe  Mumbengegwi and  Mr Eddison  J. M. Zvobgo allowed into Australia. 
Upon what passports do these men travel. 
Upon what passports did the Girls Brigade from Rhodesia travel. 
Was this a multi-racial team. 
What was the ethnic composition of the team, i.e., black, white and mixed race. 
Was the team permitted entry into Australia; if not, why not. 
Can he say whether  Mr Mumbengegwi  is  chairman  of a joint African terrorist organisation operating in Rhodesia. 
Has his attention been drawn to  Mr Mumbengegwi's  statement that the only good white man is a dead one; if so, is  Mr Mumbengegwi  to be permitted to raise funds in Australia for the purpose of supporting violence elsewhere. 
asked the Minister for Housing, upon notice: 
What funds, loan and grant, have been advanced to the South Australian Government by the Commonwealth Government for (a) building and (b) buying houses and flats during 1972-73. 
How much of these funds has been spent in respect of each category in part (1) to date. 
What are the guidelines set down by the Commonwealth Government for the allocation of these moneys. 
If no guidelines are set down, what are the guidelines adopted by, the South Australian Government in respect of each category in part (1) and for assessing repayments or rentals. 
How does the State Government account to the Commonwealth Government for the expenditure of these funds. 

 - Mr Speaker, in accordance with standing order 131 I inform the House that I intend to submit a notice of motion for the appointment of a select committee of the House of Representatives to inquire into and report on matters which were referred to in the petition relating to health insurance which was lodged by me today. I add that I have here 50,000 petitions on this matter and I am receiving them at the rate of 1,500 a day. Accordingly, I move: 
That the petition be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I desire to withdraw the notice which I gave previously for General Business Thursday No. 9. I now give notice that on General Business Thursday No. 9 I shall move: 
That a select committee of the House of Representatives be appointed to inquire into and report on the effects on the Australian community if the present voluntary health insurance scheme is replaced by a compulsory, tax financed health insurance scheme as recommended by the Health Insurance Planning Committee and, in particular, to determine: 
any likely inflationary effects; 
any overutilisation of medical and hospital services; 
the cost to individuals, particularly in relation to hospitalisation; 
any discriminatory aspects for certain categories of taxpayers; 
any erosion of an individual's freedom of choice of doctor or hospital; and  (0  its effects on the national economy and the quality of health care for present and future generations of Australians. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many trade union leaders and officials of the Australian Labor Party has the Government appointed to paid positions on boards, commissions, advisory bodies, etc. 
What are the dates and terms of the appointments and the names and qualifications of the appointees. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many commissions, committees, research groups, authorities and similar organisations have been established by Government Ministers since gaining office. 
What are the names of these organisations, how many salaried positions are involved and what is the estimated cost to 30 June 1973 in each case. 
How many special advisers and research officers have been appointed during the same period. 
By which Ministers have these appointments been made. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the purpose of the sum of $10,850,000 authorised in the Appropriation Act (No. 3) 1972-73 under Division 245 - Administrative. 
How much of this appropriation has been used. 
Who authorises its use. 
How and to whom does the Department account for its use. 
The Minister for Social Security is here, I believe. He is the Minister to whom I wish to direct my question. You have got to be lucky some time. Has his attention been drawn to the statement by  Dr R.  B. Scotton, who is described as the Government's expert economist on medical care, that he had made a simple mathematical mistake of Si Om in estimating changes in doctors' incomes? 
Ten million dollars. Does the Minister intend to correct the misinformation appearing in Hansard of 2 May in his name, or does he intend to continue using these distorted and false calculations to discredit sections of the medical profession? 
We have just listened to the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  who, at the beginning of his remarks, described himself as a democratic socialist. He proceeded to tell us of all the advantages of democratic socialism, which I would say is simply gobbledegook for totalitarianism - power from the top down. During the 20 minutes that we listened to the honourable member he made accusations against people on this side of the House and used the old tag of 'the previous whingeing, whining Government that was in office for 23 years'. I think that was how he described the previous Government. 
I appreciate the interjection. That is what I thought the honourable member said. I thought the adjectives were used in a personal way to describe one of my colleagues. I think the Liberal-Country Party Government did not do too badly during those 23 years seeing that the Australian population rose from 7 million to 13 million and there was full employment at the time we went out of office. I resent the adjectives which were ascribed to the Leader of the Australian Country Party, especially coming from the honourable member for Bowman whom I would describe as one of the most whingeing, whining, ponderous, humourless and dreary socialists in the Parliament. He is not a bit like the sort of person we expect to come from Queensland. 
I would like to say something in reference to a matter the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke of at question time today. I do not get any pleasure out of saying something like this but I feel that I would not be able to live with myself if I did not draw attention to this matter. The Prime Minister in really what amounted to a prepared statement made another attack on southern African countries. Some honourable members may remember that he chose the opportunity to wallop Trans-Australian Airlines for having the hide still to have displayed in one of its offices - I believe it was in Alice Springs - a brochure advertising travel to southern Africa. Apparently there was something in that brochure about Rhodesia. 
I am quite sure it was not the member who represents that area. The Prime Minister in his typical Big Brother attitude has given orders to TAA to destroy all of these subversive pamphlets. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned - and this is democratic socialism - no one in this country must be permitted ever to read anything about southern Africa or in particular Rhodesia. I think the people in the Press gallery, although there are not too many of them there at present, ought to have a look at what the Prime Minister said in regard to the Press in this country accepting advertisements which advertise Rhodesia because that is another indication of the mental hiatus which the Leader of the Government has in regard to that part of the world. Perhaps the members of the Press gallery should have a look at what happened to the Press in Ceylon under democratic socialism. In Ceylon the Press was strangled by the withdrawal of government advertisements from newspapers. 
I say that the Prime Minister and others who sit behind him have a double set of standards. They wish to destroy everything that may give information about this little country of Rhodesia. We are not allowed to look at it. We are not allowed to go there. But the Prime Minister agrees to the introduction into this country of all forms of pornography. That seems to me to .be a classic double standard. It is a selective sanction, something which I do not approve. When we on this side were in government I was against it and now that we are in Opposition I am still against it. So at least I am as consistent as is the Prime Minister. My view is that the Prime Minister's way is not the way to treat any country. If we do not agree with another country's politics we do not solve anything by shutting our eyes and not learning anything about them. 
I appreciate that interjection. I thank the honourable member for reminding me that it is a United Nations decision. The position is that the United Nations is running our foreign policy, not the Australian Government. That is something which I deplore. 
The point is that I do not have a terribly high respect for the way in which, for example, Soviet Russia has behaved over the years. Just think what Soviet Russia has done to the Baltic States and to Czechoslovakia. We all voted along the same lines in regard to that matter. But in my view that does not mean that we should not ever visit Soviet Russia or look at the propaganda material which that country has put into this country. I think that is a fair parallel to draw. I just wanted to place on record somewhere at some time those views and. after what the Prime Minister said today I think this is the appropriate time. 
I am used to getting these sorts of interjections. Last night someone called me the member for Rhodesia or something like that and someone else called me a fascist, but putting labels on people does not do anybody any good. I could easily call the honourable member who interjected the member for Moscow but it would be quite meaningless. 
You are accusing me of putting labels on people. I challenge you to find public evidence of that. 
That is not so but I am prepared to debate the issue reasonably and calmly. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not put labels on people. Getting back to the Budget, which I suppose is what one should be talking about, there are many aspects of it that I would like to say something about but of course time will not permit me to do so. First of all, I am opposed to this Budget, although of course not everything that is contained in it. I support the amendment that has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and which was in my view put very well by him. But there is one long term feature of this Budget and the papers associated with it on which I do want to say something briefly. I refer to the disgraceful way that this Budget is running down our defence capability. The Government is rapidly destroying the Army, the Navy and the Royal Australian Air Force. I would like the Minister for 'Defence  (Mr Barnard)  or someone who has the capacity to tell me what would happen if a situationand I think this could well happen - developed in Papua New Guinea whereby there was some major disturbance such as a civil war, perhaps an invasion or some threat to Australian expatriates in that country. When the 'Sydney' is scrapped how will this Government shift to that area troops in sufficient numbers and with all the necessary logistic support to honour our commitments to that country? I hope that in time we will get an answer to that question. I am sure that everybody who is living in Papua New Guinea will be interested to know the answer to that question. 
I fear that this Government is putting this country into the situation it was in when I was of military age, which is a long time ago, and I, along with many other young men, went to Papua New Guinea, some without equipment or with equipment which was very very old. I well remember going into action with Howitzers and other artillery pieces produced in 1908. They were so inaccurate that they tended to kill almost as many of our own people as they did the enemy. I suggest that the way this Government is heading, in scrapping defence and putting emphasis on welfare, we will see the day when we will be as ill-prepared to defend ourselves or to honour our commitments as we were in 1939. 
In regard to short term decisions which have been taken in this Budget, the Leader of the Opposition did cover the important points. I just wish to refer to one or two of those decisions that will affect us in the near future. I will quote something that the present Prime Minister said when he was bucking to be Prime Minister. He said that as a matter of 'pressing necessity' a Labor Government would lower income tax on married and lower income earners, reduce sales tax on a number of items and maintain existing rates of company tax. This Government has not lowered income tax for anybody. It has not reduced sales tax. In this Budget this Government has increased indirect taxes and it has increased company taxes and all those things which it said it would reduce. Pensioners in this country are actually now worse off and they are going to get progressively worse off. Pensions are increasing at a rate approximately 2 per cent lower than the rate of average earnings of others in the community. So gradually they are being disadvantaged. I suggest that this Budget is a budget to hit the family man or the working man whom the Labor Party claims it represents. For example there have been increased taxes on drinks, smokes and petrol. Those measures are all inflationary ones. 
There are 3 Labor Party promises that I would like to mention very quickly. We all remember the highly successful slogan - and it is a Party of slogans - 'It's time', and the literature which was distributed before the last elections. I think the next slogan for the Labor Party will be 'Time's up'. The Labor Party's 'It's Time' pamphlet stated: 
The Australian Labor Party sees inflation control as the Government's responsibility. Not yours. 
That was referring to the voter. The present Government is doing nothing about inflation except exacerbating it. On rising prices, the pamphet stated: 
All this would be bad enough, except the Government 
That is when we were in government -  - compounds the problem by increasing postal charges, telephone rates and television licences and by increasing indirect taxes . . . petrol and cigarette for example. 
I am quoting what the Labor Party criticised us for doing, yet it has done the same things in its first Budget. In 1969 the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  said: 
Don't be fooled by the Liberal boast that tax rates have not been increased. 
Actually we reduced them - 
The taxes have been raised by the simple, silent expedient of leaving the tax schedules unchanged and letting inflation and wage increases do the rest. 
That is precisely what the Labor Government is doing in its first Budget in 25 years. I can think of at least 2 pre-election promises that have not been honoured. One is the promise to allow a deductibility for taxation purposes- 
The Minister for Housing interjects to say that the promise about child care centres is designed for a 3-year term. We have his assurance that it may be kept if the Labor Party retains government until the next Budget. It certainly is not included in this Budget and, with the foreshadowed attack on other deductible expenses, I would be dubious that he will be able to keep that promise. Various statements were made by the Prime Minister about education grants for students attending independent schools. I cannot quote him precisely but all honourable members know of those statements. The Minister for Education said that no school would receive less than it was receiving before the election, but all honourable members are aware that these grants have been chopped off to many schools. That was a totally false statement - I cannot use another word because it is unparliamentary. 
The matter to which I should like to devote most of my attention is the national health scheme. During question time today I received some sort of unsatisfactory answer from the Minister for Social Security, about inaccuracies in the costing of the health scheme. Perhaps I need not repeat that information. I shall relate some figures dealing with the cost to the person who is really under attack in this health scheme. I refer to the patient whom I seek to defend. I am not concerned about the doctors although the Government seeks to discredit and denigrate medical practitioners in private practice. The Government does this to try to obscure the other important issues, particularly the cost of hospitalisation to the Australian public. 1 hope that a significant section of the Australian community will be listening to these figures. A married couple with 2 children - they are the ones who I suggest comprise the family unit and the people against whom this Budget is directed - who seek non-public hospital accommodation after the Government has nationalised medicine, as it proposes to do on 1 July next will pay more than they do at present. A man earning $80 a week who seeks to send his wife or child to a private hospital now pays $1.66 a week. Under the proposed national scheme he will pay the same but he will not have any choice of where to send his wife or child. This is one of the aspects which has been obscured by the Government. The Minister talked about freedom of choice but he does not say freedom of choice of what. It is not freedom of choice of a doctor; it is freedom of choice as to whether a man will send his child or wife to a public or private hospital. That ought to be nailed once and for all. 
A married couple with 2 children seeking non-public hospital accommodation and earning $100 a week now pay $1.55 but under the national health scheme they will have to pay $1.82 and will be forced to go into a public hospital. The way in which the scheme will operate, if it ever gets off the ground, is by forcing people to do things - on an economic basis. If there are any single people listening or interested in what it will cost them I point out that if a person earning $80 a week is unfortunate enough to go to hospital under the nationalised health scheme whereas he now pays 60c a week, it will cost him $1 a week to 'go to a public hospital. If he wishes to go to a private hospital he will have to insure separately for that. In the case of a married couple who are both working, if the husband earns $80 a week he now pays Si. 23 a week. Under the free scheme, about which the Government talks, he will pay $1.74 a week. Who can say that is free hospitalisation or even cheaper than it is now? That is not really the end of the story because under this compulsory national scheme which will operate from July, if a person is unfortunate enough to go to hospital the most he will get back, for having had the privilege of paying almost 2 per cent of his net income, is $13 a day for public hospital accommodation. 
In South Australia from 1 September the cost of public ward accommodation in the Royal Adelaide Hospital will be $20 a day for a bed in a public ward, but the person unfortunate enough to go to hospital must pay the difference which is virtually $50 a week. If that person wants to go to a private hospital he will have to pay a difference of at least $140 a week. I should like to hear what the Minister for Housing, who is to follow me in this debate, has to say about this. He can hardly describe it as a free scheme. I do not really believe that this scheme will ever get off the ground. I hope it does not. Admittedly improvements can be made to the existing scheme which is not perfect, but there is no reason for destroying it. This is an example of doctrinaire democratic socialism which we hear about and which seems to be forcing the Labor Party into trying to introduce this scheme. 
In the time remaining to me I should like to mention one other matter which I believe is an intolerable invasion of a person's civil liberties. We will all be given a number and issued with a card. In the central bureaucracy there will be a list of the things that we haveever had wrong with us. Anyone in the office can see how many times a person has been in a mental hospital, how many times a woman has had an abortion, how many times a person has had veneral disease and so on. The Government says that that material will not be available. It will not be readily available, but how do people get possession of it? How, for example, did  Senator James  McClelland obtain a person's medical record and use it against him during a meeting of a Senate committee 2 weeks ago. That was an intolerable intrusion into and denial of that person's personal freedom. At page 35 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on the Civil Rights of Migrant Australians, honourable members will read of the cross-examination of a witness by  Senator James  McClelland. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I wish to take part in this debate briefly and simply to place on record the view that I have come to on this matter and to agree, although in very small part, with the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer).  He said that, in his view, everyone has a duty to state his position. To that extent, I agree with the honourable member, although I think my position is diametrically opposed to his. I also agree with his statement - I am sure he will be interested in my view - that the death penalty should not be imposed for cowardice in the face of the enemy. No one can force a man to be brave. To that extent, I agree with the honourable member. But that is the end of my agreement with him. 
Unfortunately I missed the interjection. I should like to say something about some of the remarks made by the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby).  I thought that, in part, his contribution was unworthy of him. I have listened to this entire debate and, to the best of my knowledge, he has been the only  speaker  to introduce an aspect of party politics into it. The honourable gentleman said that, to their credit, there were no speakers from the Liberal Party supporting the retention of the death penalty and that the only Opposition speakers to support the retention of the death penalty were members -of the Australian Country Party. That, in my "view, is introducing an unnecessary and unworthy atmosphere of party politics. 
I should like to put on record right now that at least one member of the Liberal Party is speaking in favour of the retention of capital punishment, namely myself. I should also like to place on record the fact that many other members have this view, but because of the peculiarities of parliamentary proceedings it is not possible for all members to express their views, due to the time factor involved. So, I just wish to correct the Minister for the Capital Territory on this matter. Whatever view he has arrived at is his business. I have come to my view without the benefit of any parliamentary caucus debate and without the benefit of the views of any philosophers of the type he quoted such as George Bernard Shaw, Byron and other people who have been dead for hundreds of years. The view I have come to is my own, derived from my own experience, if I may put it that way. 
My position is that I support the amendments. I realise that this may not be a popular view - at any rate, with large sections of the Press and other media. But I believe that it is a view which is held by a large section of the Australian public - and, whatever one says about this Parliament, at least it does represent some of the time a cross-section of the views of the people who live in this country. There are people who live in this country who believe in the retention of the death penalty, and I happen to be one of them. 
I regret the interjection of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. On these matters, he invariably draws a parallel with the brutal killings in Vietnam. It is unfortunate that he suffers from this fixation. 
I support what was said by a previous  speaker  from this side of the chamber. In our society today there seems to be what I believe to be an excessive concern for the murderer - the person who has committed the crime - with not very much concern being shown for the victim or the victim's family; they are soon forgotten. 
As my friend and good colleague, the honourable member for Griffith, said, there is none. I believe that this was demonstrated about a week ago in Adelaide when the Royal Adelaide Show was. being conducted. A group of prisoners from Yatala prison were released - I think that is a fanway to describe it - and were allowed to go to the Royal Adelaide Show to put on a puppet display. Amongst that group of 17 prisoners were at least 2 convicted murderers. They disappeared from the Adelaide Showgrounds and at least until yesterday had not been apprehended. So far as I am aware they are still at large. This is an indictment of the people who talk about enlightened prison procedures as did the honourable member for Ryan  (Mr Drury),  who quoted  Dr Ramsey  and referred to experiments in penal reform. As you are now in the chair,  Sir, I  remind you of that comment. Experiments in penal reform are great until someone who is involved commits another crime. Why should the people in the community be the ones to suffer? 
I defer to the honourable member for Griffith. I am not seeking to secure any party political points but I must point out that the Labor Government of South Australia is in the forefront of development of the passe idea of penal reform at the expense of the rest of the community. I wanted to make that point early in my speech. It is very difficult these days to get the call at question time. This is so far a host of reasons, not the least being the time occupied by Ministers in giving rather long answers. Each day this week I wanted to ask a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  but was unable to get the call. As it is relevant to this debate I will ask the question now, not wishing necessarily to attack the Prime Minister individually but making the point that the Prime Minister single handed has sponsored this legislation, perhaps with the enthusiastic support of one or two others, as the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby),  who is at the table, will agree. I wished to ask: How does the Prime Minister or anybody else in this chamber who supports his view rationalise his enthusiastic support for abortion on request with his equally enthusiastic support for the abolition of the death penalty for any crime including child murder, hijacking, treason and so on?' 
I find it difficult to see how anybody can rationalise that situation. It seems to me to be totally inconsistent and incomprehensible. The Prime Minister sponsored the 2 debates. On the one hand he enthusiastically supports the destruction of the life of an unborn child not knowing whether it would be an hour, a day or a week before it would be born. On the other hand he equally enthusiastically supports the abolition of the death penalty. That strikes me as totally inconsistent and exhibiting a double standard as happens here from time to time. I would like an explanation from the do-gooders and other people who put those 2 extreme points of view. At least I can claim - I am sure that other honourable members on this side of the chamber can also claim - to be consistent. 
I support the termination of pregnancy under certain conditions. I do not for the life of me, irrespective of whether this motion is carried, understand how the situation could be codified. I do not see how that can be done within the human mind. The nearest form of codification I can think of is the Menhennitt ruling on abortion. I can understand and support the termination of pregnancy under certain conditions. I and people like me are consistent because we can also support the termination of the life of murderers and other people under certain conditions. I believe that stand to be totally consistent and the position taken by the Prime Minister and his supporters to be totally inconsistent. 
I want to refer briefly to some of the remarks of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb),  although he is not in the chamber at present. I appreciate the sincerity of his point of view but he made the point, as did an honourable member on this side a moment ago, that we are to have a free vote on the motion. The position with the Labor Party is that its supporters have very few chances for a free vote. I am proud to be a member of the Liberal Party and the position in my Party - and I believe in the Country Party - is that I can claim the right to a free vote on every issue that comes before this Parliament. 
What an inane, stupid and infantile interjection. Of all the people with a mental hiatus the honourable member takes the plum. I was saying that I always have the right to a free vote but in this chamber we do not really get a true reflection of how members feel. I am more and more concerned as the weeks go by when reading reports of what happens in the back rooms of the Labor Party where moves are made to control the use of the free vote. In this respect I will mention what the honourable member for La Trobe had to say because bit by bit, in my view, Parliament is becoming irrelevant as supporters of the Government completely lose the right to a free vote. 
I want to refer briefly also to the contribution to this debate by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen).  He spoke in this debate yesterday when proceedings were not broadcast. I thought he spoke superbly but I hold the opposite view to his. He is a lawyer and on this occasion I make a concession to lawyers. Frequently they become personally involved with the clients they defend. I can understand how that sort of involvement could affect their views. The honourable member referred to the deterrent aspect of the death penalty as many others have done. They used different words from mine. In any case, I do not regard the deterrent value as the first point. I regard the death penalty as a punishment; perhaps vengeance' is a more colourful word. I regard it as punishment and the deterrent is something that comes after. Personally I would find the death penalty to be a fairly significant deterrent. 
I do not mind the interjections but I thought we were to arrive at a consensus by a free vote on this matter and that we were not to be influenced by what the people in Caucus had to say. I do not even know what the people in our Caucus think on this matter as we have not discussed it. 
I have been critical of the way they have arrived at a view. I realise that we are committed to hurrying through this debate and I will not delay the vote very much longer. Contrary to what the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  had to say, in my view treason is one of the worst crimes in the book and most certainly traitors should be subjected to the death penalty. I have already said that I cannot go along with supporting the death penalty for cowardice in the face of the enemy. Nobody can turn us into brave people. I know the feeling when someone is trying to kill me and how easy it would be to get up and run. Many remain where they are because they are just as likely to be shot down when running. I am not in favour of the death penalty for that so-called crime. 
The method of execution is a matter that has not been discussed as far as I am aware. The idea of hanging appals me. Although I support the retention of the death penalty I should like to find some other form of execution. Perhaps this could be a matter to which the Minister for the Capital Territory, with all his historical knowledge, might care to devote his undoubted intellect. 
 We must just about be running out of judges and commissioners. On a few occasions I have asked myself the questionmy enemies would say that I didnot get a sensible answer - whether I would be prepared to pull the lever or do whatever is necessary to be done to take a life. Other honourable members probably have asked themselves this same question. I have thought about this for many years. 
 No, I have thought about other things but I have not let the philosophies of George Bernard Shaw or some other external historic person train the way I would think on this subject. I have worked it out for myself, rightly or wrongly, and have come to a conclusion. Would I, in the final crunch, be prepared to pull the lever or manipulate whatever instrument is involved in taking life? If I saw a person commit a crime of the type that we all know has been committed in Adelaide in recent weeks or crimes of the type committed by Arab terrorists, I would be very pleased to take the life of the person responsible. Therefore, as a legislator, I claim the right to authorise someone else to do it. It is one thing to take life in the heat of battle. The Minister for the Capital Territory tended to attack my intellect but he may not have had the experience that I have had. It is one thing to take life in war but another in peace time, and we are talking of peace time. I support the amendments moved by the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and I trust that there are sufficient members who are prepared to resist so-called public opinion and so retain the death penalty in our statutes. 
Question put - 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I would like to place on record my support of the amendment and oppose abolition of the death penalty in the case of, for example, an Australian serviceman who transmits information to the enemy, causing a troopship carrying 3,000 
Australian servicemen to Papua New Guinea or some theatre of war to sink with the loss of every man on board. There is not a free vote on this issue, this is a Government Bill, and what the Government is saying is that that man should not be punished with the supreme penalty. I cannot accept that. I support the amendment. 
Question put: that the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr  Sinclair's amendment) stand part of the Bill. 
I will not go over the arguments either, but I wish lo lend some support to my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  When the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  spoke a few moments ago he said that this was the majority feeling of the House. My recollection of the vote on the last amendment is that it was something like just over 60 to around 30. A bigger proportion voted for that amendment than voted No' on the earlier question. It is a valid criticism of the operations of the House today- 
 Thank you,  Mr Chairman;  but I will be resuming it in a moment anyway. The point I seek to make is that if we are to have free votes in this place they should be legitimate free votes because eventually the Parliament- 
Question put: 
That the new clause proposed to be added  (Mr  Sinclair's amendment) be added. 
I support the amendment. I refer to the case in Adelaide, which I mentioned earlier in the debate, where 2 convicted murderers are still at large as a result of a so-called enlightened attitude towards penal reform. What is the position if in the course of apprehending either or both of those convicted murderers a policeman or a warder is murdered? Although it is a theoretical situation it could happen and a person would have murdered twice. I believe that the police are entitled to the protection that this sort of legislation will give them. They are the ones charged with the responsibility of catching criminals who get out of gaols and that is going to happen more and more often as we get this so-called enlightened attitude practised in our community. I support the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
How many Australian servicemen are still missing in Vietnam and when were they posted missing. 
What are their names and to which Service does each belong. 
What steps have been taken to account for them. 
Has any approach been, made in respect of them through the Viet Cong or North Vietnamese unionists entertained in Parliament House, Canberra, on 2 May 1973 by Ministers and others; if so, what was the response; if not, why not. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday the Prime Minister told the House that the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions had promised him full trade union co-operation in restraining wages and incomes. In view of  Mr Hawke's  statement that he cannot promise the ACTU any more than the Prime Minister can promise the parliamentary Caucus, will he now tell the House who is telling the truth? 

 - Mr Speaker, I do hope that-- 
What I said this morning was that I was prepared to forgo speaking in the Grievance Debate because I considered that the matters we were then discussing were very much more important than the matters I wanted to discuss in the Grievance Debate. I still think that the matters that we were not really allowed to discuss this morning are more important. We were dealing with the integrity of Ministers. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Barnard)  made a great play of the alleged attack on his integrity. I believe that there have been malpractices by honourable members opposite and perhaps at least one 
Minister. What I am anxious to do and what honourable members on his side of the House want to do is to see those matters debated. I shudder to think what would have happened if the Minister in charge of minerals and energy in our Government and the Deputy Prime Minister in our Government had said and done the things that have been done by the corresponding Ministers in the present Government. The Press gallery would have been full and there would have been stories in every newspaper in Australia. I suggest that there will not be a word in the Press tomorrow about this matter because the Press gallery has been very nearly empty right through these proceedings. 
There is a question of integrity or - we cannot use the word 'lies' in this place - false statements. I would say that there are plenty of examples of false statements being made inside and outside this House by Ministers. I should like to give the House examples of some false statements - I am not allowed to use the word 'lies' - which have been made by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  in his campaign to denigrate the medical profession by attacking medical fees to draw attention away from the problems that will come into Australia if we ever socialise medicine. 
The problems we would experience with the lack of hospitalisation facilities would in my view be substantial. I believe that the Minister for Social Security is acting very much as  Dr Goebbels  acted in the Hitler regime in Nazi Germany. He kept on repeating false statements and false statements- 
It is not my fault that he is not here. He makes false statements on a number of subjects and keeps repeating them. There is an old saying that if you tell a lie long enough and often enough people will begin to believe it is the truth. I have 7 specific examples of false statements by the Minister for Social Security. Firstly, he has based the whole of his attack on medical fees upon the false evidence supplied by  Dr Scotton. Dr Scotton  has admitted that he made what he described as a simple mistake in calculating the cost of medical fees - the simple mistake of $10m. That is not the mistake of the Minister but the Minister has known about that simple mistake and he has, to use the words of the  Deputy  Prime Minister, compounded the felony by using that false material time and time again to denigrate the medical profession. On the very day that  Dr Scotton  was giving evidence before the tribunal in Sydney the Minister was speaking to a group in Perth, using this false material to falsify claims against the medical profession. That, to my way of thinking, is sharp practice. 
The Minister talks falsely about freedom of choice. He does not go on to say freedom of choice of what. He should talk about the freedom of choice not of one's own doctor but of whether one has hospitalisation in a public hospital or a private hospital. He talks about the cost of the medical scheme being $800m. This is the third false statement - we cannot use the word 'lie'. The estimated cost of the medical scheme when it is introduced by the Government, he said, will be $800m. There are 16,000 doctors in Australia. He has alternatively offered to bribe them and denigrate them. He has offrered them a salary of $50,000 a year under his scheme. Simple arithmetic shows that 16,000 times $50,000 is $800m, which is what he says will be the cost of the medical scheme. That is a false statement because obviously there will be many other costs on top of the actual salaries of doctors. He said in this House only this week words to the effect that there are 1 million people in Australia who at present have no protection under the health scheme. I say that that is untrue. I cannot say it is a lie because that would be unparliamentary. But it is a false statement. The fact is that 83.2 per cent of the population of Australia at the moment are members of voluntary health funds and 9.6 per cent of the population- 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister. During a recent Press conference he said that his Government would support certain actions - I quote his words - 'designed to bring down the South African Government or at least have the South African Government abandon its objectionable policies'. Is there any precedent for an Australian Prime Minister or an Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs making such a pronouncement about a friendly nation? What is his Government's view on the policies of a fellow Commonwealth country, Zambia, for example, where most of the members of the former Opposition party are in gaol without trial? 
I shall be very brief in my remarks. The Opposition does not intend to oppose this Bill. The Opposition thinks it is a common-sense measure. I have a personal reason for wishing briefly to take part in the debate. In doing so I speak on behalf of many people in the community. In a way I suppose I am using the debate on this Bill as an opportunity to ask a question of the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  As the Minister knows, there are not many opportunities to do so during question time. I would like the Minister to outline the attitude of the Government to the granting of entry into Australia to people who are or are not considered to be terrorists, freedom fighters or whatever other expression one likes to use. I wish to refer to a couple of reports which appeared in the 'Australian' yesterday, I think it is possible that they appeared also in other newspapers. On the front page of the Australian' of yesterday there was a report of the deportation under fairly mysterious circumstances of an Al Fatah terrorist, and on the second page there was an unconfirmed report of a so-called African leader seeking asylum in Australia. I ask the Minister: Who is the African leader? What are his politics? What are his reasons for seeking political asylum in Australia? In what way does the Government distinguish between what is in its view an obviously undesirable alien and what is a desirable one? The mere fact that a person happens to be - in the Government's view anyway - a freedom fighter does not necessarily mean that he is undesirable. That is a political judgment. I know the Government's attitude towards people coming from, for example, southern Africa. I repeat: Who is the person and what are the particular circumstances of his case? Will the Minister undertake, as he mentioned in the last part of his second reading speech, to ensure that this country will not be treated as a repository for undesirable aliens who come here under the pretence of seeking political asylum? 
It was not my intention to take part in this debate tonight until I heard the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  refer to the current dispute in New South Wales. I think he used the expression that Askin was trying to keep the dispute going. He was referring to the 35-hour week dispute. Now that you,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  have not corrected me, I take it that you concur that the Minister did say this. I should like to place on record where the true cause of this dispute lies. I should like to quote to the Committee a report from the Tribune' which is a quite well read paper of the Communist Party of Australia. This copy of the Tribune' is dated 26 June 1973 and the article deals with rank and file control. (Government supporters interjecting.) 
I should like the interjectors to speak up so that I can hear what they are saying. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Boothby address the Chair and ignore the interjections. 
I can see the interjectors mouth moving but I cannot hear what he is saying. The honourable member tends to slur his words a bit.- Under the heading 'Rank and File Control' the article in this newspaper states: 
The struggle for the 35-hour week is being led and completely controlled by the rank and file elected job committees. 
I do not think that one could ever say that  Sir Robert  Askin is a member of one of those committees. The report continues: 
Two rank and file co-ordinators have been elected, one from the wage division and one from the salary division, by the rank and file 35-hour State-wide committee. 
This is the committee about which we are talking. The article continues: 
A sub-committee of the New South Wales Labor Council to mobilise and co-ordinate the struggle . . . 
This is the struggle to gain a 35-hour week in this particular industry. I note,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  that you are speaking to the  Clerk  but I draw your attention to the fact that the Minister mentioned this particular dispute and referred to the Premier of New South Wales. I feel, therefore, that it is proper for me to take part in the debate on that basis. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member for Boothby is entitled to make passing reference to these matters but I point out that the expenditure before the 
Committee is that of the Department of Civil Aviation and the Department of Transport. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  . I think that is a proper point for you to make. I would suggest that this sort of action will itself be manifest within the Department of Civil Aviation and every other Commonwealth department within the life of this Parliament as long as we have a Labor Party Government which will surrender itself to the trade union movement, particularly to the left wing unions. That is my passing reference. Carrying on with passing references, I should like to refer also to a report- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I hope that the honourable member will not carry on with his passing references for too long. 
No, I have finished the passing reference but I think it is important that the Minister for Civil Aviation be informed  o!  some of these things because he has a trade union background in New South Wales. However, I think that probably he is a little out of touch with what is happening in New South Wales at the moment. I should like to read to him and to the Committee a report from the. Tribune' of 23 May. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! On the point of order, unfortunately I am not aware of the contents of the document from which the honourable member for Boothby is about to read. If it has no relevance, I will, of course, rule him out of order. 
I think it is entirely relevant 1 thank the Minister who introduced this subject because this particular reference deals with the breakdown of the composition of dele, gates - 446 to be precise - who attended the National Workers Control Conference in Newcastle last Easter. These figures have only recently been released by the conference planning committee. It has been very hard to find this information. Of those delegates present, 300 came from New South Wales and the report, which I will not push- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Will the honourable member for Boothby please relate this matter to the estimates of the Dep- artment of Civil Aviation and the Department of Transport? Otherwise I must ask him to resume his seat. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I am endeavouring to relate the figures from this report to the statement of the Minister a few moments ago that  Sir Robert  Askin and his Government were responsible for the power shortages in New South Wales. I do not know why he introduced this matter because it had nothing to do with the Department of Civil Aviation estimates, but he did introduce it. 
 The Minister said it, he talked about this and all I seek to do is to place on record some of the background of this committee which is seeking a 35-hour week in industry throughout Australia. This will involve the Department of Civil Aviation and other parts of the portfolio administered in a rough sort of way by the Minister for Transport and whatever other portfolios he holds. It is important to understand the background of this 35-hour week committee. I make the point that the largest delegation from any union was composed of Australian Metal Workers Union members headed by Laurie Carmichael. Then came the Builders Labourers Federation- 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  -  Order! I uphold the point of order. I have listened with a great deal of care to what the honourable member for Boothby is saying. I believe he is not referring to the estimates before the Committee. I ask him either to return to those estimates or to resume his seat. 
Mir McLEAY  -  Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Civil aviation is an extremely significant part of our transport industry. It is, in my view, being maladministered by the Minister for Civil Aviation and Minister for Transport. In fact he has said things which are totally untrue about the previous Government not doing anything about the Brisbane Airport. I know, from the short experience I had in the Department, that had it not been for this Government and if the Opposition were still in government the plans for Brisbane Airport would have proceeded and the Brisbane Airport would have been the best airport in the whole of the Commonwealth. To say that this has nothing to do with the Department of Civil Aviation estimates would be quite incorrect. I am dealing also with that section of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1973-74 which relates to salaries and payments in the nature of salary, travelling and subsistence and other allied matters. I refer in particular to the matter drawn to the attention of this Committee by the Minister when he referred to  Sir Robert  Askin and the 35-Hour Week Committee. I wish to place on record the composition of this committee because it includes delegates from the Australian Metal Workers Union, the Builders Labourers Federation- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member is defying my ruling by returning to a matter which I have already ruled was irrelevant. 
I defer to your ruling, of course,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  but the Minister himself introduced this matter. If it had not been for what the Minister introduced I would have been in my office doing other work, which I consider to be even more important than discussing these estimates, but because of his provocative, unfair attack upon  Sir Robert  Askin I felt disposed to take some part in the debate. I draw attention to the fact that it is not  Sir Robert  Askin who has exacerbated this dispute but the 35-Hour Week Committee. Surely to heavens that is within the realms of this debate. I am dealing with the members who comprise the 35-Hour Week Committee and I am making the point that the 35-Hour Week Committee is run by leftists, communists, Trotskyites and whatever they like to call themselves. I am identifying them. I do not think that in doing so I am transgressing your ruling,  Sir. I  have referred to the AMWU. 
In the part with which the Minister dealt. 
In relation to what part did the Minister have something to say about  Sir Robert  Askin? 
It is the same part. I have already identified the Builders Labourers Federation. Jack Mundey is hardly a moderate in the trade union movement. The Waterside Workers Federation sent delegates to the 35- Hour Week Committee- 
Here comes one of the bleating lefties- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What nations are currently members of the United Nations Committee of 24. 
Why did Australia withdraw from the Committee in 1969. 
Why did Australia re-join the Committee in 1973. 
Can he say why (a) the United States of America and (b) the United Kingdom withdrew from the Committee in 1971. 
What nations have joined, or withdrawn from, the Committee since 1971. 
Can he say what is the form of Government in each of the following countries, e.g. parliamentary democracy, military dictatorship, single party State, etc., and to whom is the privilege of franchise given and under what conditions: Afghanistan. Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Congo Brazzaville, Republic of 
Before 1 refer to the matters about which I am concerned in this grievance debate I should like to make passing comment on the answers given by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  a few moments ago in response to questions asked by the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  and to say how much I personally deplore the run down in Service activities, particularly in relation to the Royal Australian Air Force and the Royal Australian Navy. I make the point that if the Government want to help the world gliding championships - members of the Opposition would approve - surely this should be done through the Department of Civil Aviation, as was done when the previous Government was in power, and not by draining funds away from the Royal Australian Air Force. I heard only this morning that things are in such a serious state in the Navy that in a recent exercise off the Queensland coast the naval vessels involved could use only one screw because the Navy does not have enough money to buy sufficient fuel to enable the running of both engines. The position seems to me to be absolutely deplorable. I trust that the Minister for Defence will have a look at the matter. The time will come when we will have nothing to defend anything with. We will have nothing even to attack locusts. 
I wish to refer now to the Government's proposed national health plan and also the plans of my Party. In particular I wish- to refer to the increasing amount which we hear not only from the Government side but also from journalists who support the Labor Party cause. I believe things have been said which are totally untrue. It has been said that my Party has no positive policies. I wish to compare the Government's proposed health scheme with our own plans in order to indicate positive and non-positive policies. Our scheme, I believe, is infinitely better than the Government's scheme will ever be. It is a voluntary scheme and I admit it can be improved. I wish to refer to part of the National Health Act which indicates particular areas where, if my Party had been permitted to stay in government, it would have been able to improve its own scheme. No scheme is perfect; our scheme is nearly perfect. If we can take care of the areas where there has been some disability our own scheme will be perfect. Part of the National Health Act deals with the 3 areas where perhaps our scheme could have been improved. The areas involved are low income earning families, people receiving unemployment, sickness and special benefits and migrants. I do not think it is generally known in the community that those people can be encouraged to take part in voluntary plans such as the one in which the Government will pay the premiums. I admit that to that extent we were neglectful. We did not receive enough information about the areas where there was need and the ways in which improvements could be made. 
The big advantage of our scheme and the philosophy of it is that the healthy pay for the sick. It is a voluntary scheme and in spite of what the Minister says more than 96 per cent of the people in this country receive under our existing scheme satisfactory medical and hospital services. The Minister has said time and time again that a million people have no protection. Where are those million people? The figures I have indicate that 83.2 per cent of the Australian community is in voluntary health funds. More than 9 per cent is in the pensioner medical service; 3 per cent is in repatriation services and the defence forces provide medical care for nearly 1 per cent. Those figures indicate that 96.4 per cent of the community is currently receiving the best hospital and medical treatment in the world. The big problem today is that the Minister for Social Security has succeeded in getting public debate about the health scheme into the area of doctors' fees. I say that the proposed scheme has nothing to do with doctors' fees. I admit that when we were in government this was an area where we had not completely arrived at a satisfactory solution, but we were getting to that situation. 
I see no reason to destroy a first class scheme and replace it with a doctrinaire socialist policy. Let us look at the deficiencies of the scheme. The Minister continues to denigrate the medical profession and to engage it in public debate. I think we should be drawing attention to where the real deficiencies will exist in the Government scheme if it is ever introduced. I refer to the cost of going to hospital and of paying the premiums. I have some figures which indicate the cost to persons who are unfortunate enough to go to hospital under the Government scheme which is proposed to be introduced on 1 July next year. I suggest it will be quite impossible for the scheme to function from that date. The figures for South Australia, which is the State that I know best, indicate that approximately 70 per cent of persons who go to hospital go to private hospitals. I think that percentage varies from State to State. It could be even higher in Victoria. In South Australia the cost of a bed in a public hospital such as the Royal Adelaide Hospital, the Queen Elizabeth Hospital or hospitals in Mount Gambier or other country areas is $20 a day. Therefore a bed in a public hospital costs $140 a week. Under the Labor Party compulsory tax finance scheme the maximum Government contribution will be $13 a day, which is $91 a week. 1 wonder whether the Australians realise that when this so-called free scheme comes in it will cost a person who enters a public ward in, say, the Royal Adelaide Hospital $49 a week over and above what it will cost to join the scheme. A share room in such a hospital will cost $84 a week over and above what it will cost to join the scheme. Patients will not have any choice. It is a compulsory scheme. A private room in a public hospital will cost $119 over and above the fee to join the scheme. I think this is of some concern particularly to women who will enter hospital to be confined. Two things will happen, quite apart from having a baby. First, the women will have no choice of doctor. The only choice they will have will be whether they enter a public hospital or a private hospital. A private room in a public hospital will cost them $119 a week. A private room in a private hospital will cost $189 a week. Those fees will be paid by the patient direct  to the  hospital after receiving the Government subsidy. On top of that cost is the cost of joining the scheme. I repeat that it will be compulsory to join the scheme. Nobody will have any choice. A single person on a salary of $100 a week on present plans will be paying $28.60 a year to join a fund. In return nearly all of the costs of hospitalisation will be refunded. 
Under the Government's scheme a single person earning $100 a week will pay $62.52 a year for the privilege of so-called free medicine. On top of that he will be facing some of the cost of hospitalisation. It is very bad news for a single person. He will pay more than double what he pays now in contributions and he will pay a great deal more to go to hospital. The same position will apply to working wives. There are thousands of 2-children families in the community in which both parents are working. At present they pay $61.88 a year. Under the free Government scheme they will pay $96.20 a year. 
The income is $100 a week; I appreciate the interjection. Assuming that the wife's average income is $60 a week she and her husband will pay nearly $100 a year to be part of the Labor Party's so-called free health fund. On top of that they will have to pay the hospital costs. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
How many persons made eligible to vote at Federal elections by the reduction in age requirements have enrolled in each of the States and Territories. 
How many persons on State rolls have (a) applied and (b) not applied for enrolment on Federal rolls. 
In view of the compulsory aspect of the legislation, how many persons (a) have been subject to penalty and (b) are in the process of being penalised. 
What are the fines involved. 
What measures is the Government taking to advise eligible persons that the right to vote is preceded by the right to enrol, and neither is voluntary. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
How many persons applied for political asylum in Australia during September 1973. 
How many of these applications (a) are under consideration and (b) have been approved. 
Have these persons applied for political asylum in any other country; if so, were their applications approved or rejected. 
What conditions have been, or will be, placed upon their political activities in Australia. 
What are their names, what is the former or present nationality of each of them, and what are the alleged crimes or convictions recorded in their own countries. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I remind the Committee that today is United Nations Day and I should like to say a few well chosen words about the United Nations. 
As the honourable member indicates, hopefully well chosen. However, before so doing I should like to place on record that on one issue at least I find myself in complete agreement with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I do not expect that this will ever happen again. I agree with what he said about Australia's attitude to the Arab-Israeli conflict, namely, that Australia should maintain a position of total non-alignment. I am sure that most honourable members have friends - I have, at any rate - who are Jews and friends who are Arabs, Lebanese and Egyptians. I hope that this conflict will end soon, once and for all, because it does not do anyone in Australia any good, quite apart from the trauma it creates in the Middle East. 
The matters that concern me about the United Nations start with this particular conflict. The ineffectiveness of the United Nations is exemplified by the way it has not been able to deal with the Arab-Israel conflict. It has shown its futility on almost every issue that has come before it for discussion. In my view the General Assembly is nothing more nor less than a forum in which nations can gang up in groups against other nations. It is a place where blocs collect - usually communist or Afro-Asian blocs - to gang up and pass powerful resolutions against individual nations. This I deplore. I am of the view that the General Assembly of the United Nations is largely communist controlled and that it is not working in the best interests of international peace. At it such nations as, I am afraid, Australia at the moment follow blindly the fellow travelling attitude of communist philosophy and socialism to such an extent as to allow the United Nations to define our foreign policy. This I regret very much. It makes selective pronouncements about such countries as South Africa and Rhodesia on the basis of their domestic policies. I have yet to hear a pronouncement from the United Nations about discrimination by, say, black countries. Take the example of Nigeria. We all remember the terrible conflict there a few years ago, when more than one million Ibos were killed. There was not a sound out of the United Nations General Assembly. In 'Burundi at this moment- 
I am talking about the United Nations. In Burundi at this moment - at a time when the Australian Labor Party is in government in Australia - there is a civil war between the Hutu and the Tutsi which has resulted in more than 200,000 casualties. Presumably because black people are fighting black people, there has been no sound from the United Nations or from the Australian Government, which follows the United Nations in its policies. There has been no complaint about Africanisation policies in Africa, presumably because that is black discrimination against white. I do not remember any complaint from the United Nations about what happened in Uganda when General Amin discriminated against the Asians there. In that instance it was a case of black people against Asian people. There were no complaints from the United Nations. When Zambian troops shot 2 Canadians on the Rhodesian side of the border there was no complaint. To my knowledge, not even the Canadian Government lodged any formal complaint There was certainly no word from the United Nations. There was no word from the United Nations when the members of the Opposition parties in Zambia were put into gaol. They are still there. When I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  a question on this matter just a few weeks ago he took the opportunity to attack South Africa and its apartheid policies. 
The nub of it all is that the United Nations is being used in every possible way to attack countries such as South Africa. I think that the resolutions are far too selective. There must be 2 sides to the coin in respect to what is happening all over Africa and not just in South Africa. One does not have to be a racialist, a facist or whatever else honourable members opposite like to call some of us who want to try to understand the problems of Africa to know that they are very real problems. We should be glad that we do not have anywhere near the problems of any one of those countries. We should realise that in fact they are defending their countries from the aggression of guerrillas who are financed by and trained in Soviet Russia and Communist China. They also are under attack continually from the United Nations blocs I have mentioned - the communist and Afro-Asian blocs. 
I believe that it is to the continuing shame of the Whitlam Government that Australia has been allowed to rejoin what is known as the Committee of Twenty-Four, which is really what I am anxious to talk about today. It is a committee of the United Nations General Assembly whose functions are not, I believe, generally understood in this country. It is called the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration of the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. It is a collection of the representatives of 24 nations - Australia is the twenty-fourth - who assemble to discuss these matters but who in fact largely churn out pronouncements attacking the governments of southern Africa. I believe that those governments are attacked not because they happen to be white supremist governments, as has been stated, but on the ground of discrimination in the cause of promoting international communism. If we have a look at the Committee of Twenty-Four we will find that 17 of the countries that are members of it - that is a generous assessment - have single party totalitarian governments. Australia has joined this select group of people who make pronouncements about the domestic affairs of other countries. Let us have a look at some of the countries which comprise the Committee. 
Firstly, there is Afghanistan, which is a military dictatorship. It had a coup d'etat earlier this year and another attempted one later this year. Bulgaria, which is a hard line communist country, is a member. Another member is Chile, which was previously a totalitarian communist country and which is now, I take it, a totalitarian non-communist country. Czechoslovakia is a member, as is Congo Brazzaville. There have been 2 coup d'etats in Congo Brazzaville - one in 1963 and another in 1968. It is a single party state. Communist China, which is a single party state, is also a member. How can anyone from Communist China support resolutions attacking any nation on the ground of discrimination, when one remembers what she did to the Tibetans? Another member is Ethiopia, which is really a totalitarian state. It is a single party monarchy. It never has any elections. There is a civil war in Eritrea. Has anyone ever heard about that from the United Nations? Discrimination occurs on an ethnic basis there between the Hamitics and the Moslems. The Moslems are negroes. It is a case of Arab against negro. We do not hear anything about that from the United Nations and we do not hear anything about that from our Government. 
Next on the list is Fiji. Fiji is in an interesting situation. It is not unlike Australia in that it was once a British colony. Fiji has a minority government whose members happen to be Fijians. Its Constitution is drawn up in such a way that there always has to be a Fijian government. So, if we talk about minority rule in South Africa, Rhodesia or anywhere else, we should also talk about minority rule in Fiji. But I suggest that we should not. I suggest that it is none of our business. Let us remember that there are 2 sides to every coin. There are more Indians than Fijians in Fiji. That brings me to India. Who in the world is being discriminated against more than the untouchables? There is always conflict in India between the Hindus and the Moslems. There is agitation for separate State governments in India. So India really should not take part in any of the resolutions attacking other countries. The next country on the list is Iraq. Iraq is a (fine democratic place! Iraq hangs Jews in public. Who can possibly give credence to any resolutions promoted by Iraq on discrimination? What country could discriminate against its Jewish minority more than Iraq? Another member is the Ivory Coast, which is a single party state. Mali, which is also a member, is a military dictatorship. At the moment a civil war is in progress in Mali. Its representatives still go to the United Nations, but the United Nations does nothing and says nothing about the civil war in Mali. The next country on the list is the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. It is a fine champion- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Duthie)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
In the course of the debate on the estimates of the Department of Foreign Affairs today, in summing up, the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)- 
I have never served on the Public Works Committee. 
I am not so sure that I want to serve on it in the future. I wish to place on record my view that succeeding Public Works Committees, under succeeding chairmen, have done a very great service to this nation. I should like to express a few views to support that attitude and perhaps make some other suggestions. As I understand the provisions of the Bill the minimum cost of works undertaken by the Government which are referred to the Public Works Committee will be increased from $750,000 to $2m. 
Anything which encourages public scrutiny of public works, in my view, is highly desirable. I put to the House a question that I have been trying to put to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for the last 2 weeks or 3 weeks. Because of the situation in the House at the moment, I have not received the call at question time. It seems to me that in our inflationary situation - I think we all agree that we are in such a situation - the increasing amount of money that is being spent in the public sector, if it is justified, should be thoroughly investigated because, in an inflationary situation, on my limited understanding of economics to increase the Public Service and to increase public works is like trying to put out a fire with kerosene. I would like to be convinced that whatever is done in this way represents money spent efficiently. 
Let me refer to the sort of question which I have been trying to pose for answer. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  who is at the table, may care to give this question some thought. Having regard to the Government's Budget estimate of an increase in Public Service staff of 4.7 per cent - I believe that the increase actually will be more than 4.7 per cent - the increase in Public Service salaries of nearly 25 per cent, which is quite significant, the current rate of inflation which is running at 14 per cent and the fact that there has never been a thorough-going inquiry by an outside body into the Commonwealth Public Service, will the Government give consideration to appointing an independent economies commission, rather like an expanded Public Works Committee but independent and outside the Commonwealth Public Service, which would be responsible to the Parliament for a continuing, systematic and comprehensive check on the efficient working of all 37 Government departments? 1 listened to part of what the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  who preceded me in this debate, had to say. I think my question is along the lines of his suggestion. We should have some other body, independent of the Public Service, to report to the Parliament on the efficiency and other aspects of the ~ Public Service. If that is what he was saying, I hope that he will give consideration to supporting my proposal because it would be marvellous if both sides of the House could get together and encourage the implementation of such a suggestion. I have done a little research on this matter. It is very significant that the present Government wishes to make the Commonwealth Public Service the pacesetter by granting to it increased holiday pay, maternity leave of 12 weeks, paternity leave of one week or two weeks, a shorter working week, equal pay and heaven knows what. With the Government wishing to make the public sector the pacesetter, it will be quite impossible for the private sector to keep up with it. 
For those reasons, I think it is appropriate to bring this matter up for debate when discussing the Public Works Committee because the Public Works Committee really is the body which most closely approximates what I advocate. As I said a moment ago, I have done a minor amount of research on this matter. In the history of our federation, there has never been the sort of investigation that I suggest. A thorough inquiry into the Commonwealth Public Service by an outside body has never been conducted. I believe - I am not being critical only of the present Government; I suppose that I am being equally critical of our own former Government, but perhaps this matter was too hot for it to handle - that the appointment of such an inquiry is something at which a government should look and about which it should take some action. I think that the present Government should be the Government to do this because, after all, it is the present Government that wishes the Commonwealth Public Service to be the pacesetter. 
As briefly as possible, I wish to refer to the only 2 investigations on record as inquiries into parts of the Commonwealth Public Service. One such investigation took place just after World War I. To anyone who is interested to the slightest degree in this matter - I am sure that all members of the Public Works Committee are interested in it - I recommend the reading of a book entitled The Commonwealth Bureaucracy' by Gerald E. Caiden. This book was written in 1967. I wish to quote from this book his references to the 2 royal commissions which were set up after World War I. One was the McLachlan Royal Commission which was concerned with the administration of the Public Service of the Commonwealth and particularly 'the effect of such Acts upon the management and workings of the departments'. This Royal Commission petered out and finally died. Obviously, it was not a thorough-going economic investigation. The second inquiriy was known as the Economies Royal Commission and was under the. chairmanship of  Mr R.  Gibson who was called upon:  to consider and report upon the public expenditure of the Commonwealth of Australia with a view to effecting economies. 
That term of reference is the closest I can find to what I would like to see as the basis for an inquiry into our Commonwealth Public Service. In his book, Gerald Caiden states: 
There has never been a thorough outside inquiry into the Commonwealth bureaucracy or the Commonwealth Service. The last thorough look at the Service personnel system took place at the end of World War I. Since that time there have been inquiries into parts, but not the whole, of the system and Commonwealth Governments have persistently refused to consider surveys on the scale of the British Royal Commissions, the Hoover and Glassco Commissions in North America and the McCarthy Commission in New Zealand. Behind the specious reasoning against such proposals is the very real fear of politicians and officials that a full inquiry might do more damage than good to individual reputations, Service morale and what appears to be a smooth-working system, particularly if mass media distort criticisms and exaggerate deficiencies. 
In that passage, quoted from  Mr Caiden's  book which was written in 1967, the author refers to the only 2 investigations which have been made of the Commonwealth Public Service. I will quote only one further passage from his book. Were I brilliant enough, this is the sort of thing that I would write. I would like to be associated with his view. This quotation refers to the work of the first Commission. 
The present  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton),  has returned to the chamber. I point out to him that I am in the process of quoting from a book entitled 'The Commonwealth Bureaucracy' written by Gerald Caiden which mentioned the 2 separate royal commissions which inquired into the Commonwealth Public Service. The first quotation that I made was written prior to the first inquiry - the McLachlan Royal Commission - which petered out in November 1920 after its second report in which it defended its previous report which had been attacked by critics. The inquiry died on the vine. I identify myself now with these views written after that report. I wish that they were my original thoughts. Gerald Caiden states: 
This can only be secured if the duty of continuous criticism and the duty of seeing that fair value is received for money expended is placed in the hands of individuals 'who are not in any way to blame for the failures' - 
And this is extremely important - and who will measure the efficiency and economy of all Departments and fearlessly bring to light all failures and with power to report direct to Parliament on the same principle as the Auditor-General is expected to fearlessly bring to light any lapses in honest and accurate accounting . . . 
That really is the nitty-gritty of what I advocate to this Parliament as desirable action. I propose the appointment of some such economies commission - either an expanded Public Works Committee or a separate body altogether. 
In the few moments that are left I would like to give the House an up-to-date reference to the inconsistencies of certain sections, not necessarily just of the Commonwealth Public Service but of spending in the public sector. I refer to the Australian Industry Development Corporation. As honourable members will know, the original Australian Industry Development Corporation Act requires the Corporation to submit annual reports to Parliament. However, these reports provide no detailed analysis of the nature and rationale for individual investments. 
 As the honourable member for Balaclava pointed out, they lost half a million dollars 2 weeks ago. This is the way they go about losing it. In the past the identity of individual recipients of AIDC assistance has been revealed only in those cases where the recipients themselves - not Parliament or anybody else - have chosen to do so. 
 I appreciate the Minister's interjection. I am not so sure that I would not accept that sort of appointment if that is what he is advocating. I go on to make the point that one illustration of the desirability of greater public disclosure by the AIDC is provided by the case of Information Electronics Ltd of the Australian Capital Territory. I think that the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will know the company to which I am referring. 
The Minister says it was a very successful company. 
At the moment. I am not sure that I can entirely agree. Information Electronics produces component equipment for data communication systems and has been assisted by loan funds from the AIDC. I am not in any way blaming the Minister for that because it happened before he became the Minister. This particular company initiated a tariff reference concerning cathode ray tube display terminals where manufacturers requested tariff protection for the production of these items. The Tariff Board report presented to Parliament on 7 March - the present Minister was the Minister at that time - recommended against protective duty and also noted the unsatisfactory performance of this company. A moment ago the Minister said that it was a highly efficient company. The Tariff Board, which at that time also came under his administration, said that it had an unsatisfactory performance. The Government has deferred a decision on the Board's recommendation pending a report by the Tariff Board on the electronics industry in general. It may be that this company has sound prospects for long term growth. Nevertheless, it seems desirable to know AIDCs justification for assisting a company- - 
Yes, I would be very pleased to do so. I am advocating an expanded Public Works Committee or, in lieu of that, a sort of economies commission. I have given other examples and other views. 
What I am saying is that public utilities, including the AIDC, should be subject to public scrutiny. On the one hand we have the Tariff Board saying that this particular company is inefficient and on the other hand we have the AIDC saying that it should be promoted and should be lent money. That really is the relevance. I appreciate the interjection by the Minister for Overseas Trade who wished to assist me in this matter. 
A lot of us can see things that we want to see, a lot of us can see things that we do not want to see, and some of us do not see anything at all. This is entirely relevant to the debate. 
I thank my colleague very much. This question of the proposed assistance by the AIDC was raised at the Prime Minister's Press conference on 6 March. According to the transcript of the Press conference, the Prime Minister was asked: 
As Minister who receives Tariff Board reports, you would be aware that the Board reported recently adversely on the prospects and performance of one of the AIDC projects, Information "Electronics Ltd. Will you have  Sir John  Crawford investigate the possibility of extending the protection commission's operations to cover the implicit subsidy in the AIDC operations? 
The Prime Minister replied: 
This will be open to him to consider and I hope he does. 
I think that the reason the Minister for Overseas Trade is so sensitive about this is that he- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! I think that the honourable member is getting a little bit wide of the subject. 
I thank you for directing me in this way,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Frankly, it seems to me that any thought, original or not, or anything that will create a situation where the public sector or any part of the public sector is made to feel that it is under the same sort of investigation as the private sector is useful and has a relation to public works. That is the relevance. I am finishing my remarks, anyway, by quoting what the Minister for Overseas Trade had to say about this same matter on 7 March. He denied that the AIDC would come under the continuing scrutiny of the proposed protection commission and did not consider that this statement was in conflict with the Prime Minister's statement on this matter. That is the reason why he is so sensitive now. I do not think that the question of economies and efficiency in the Public Service should be confined to any one of the 37 departments. It should be applied to all departments and in any area where public funds are spent. I conclude my remarks by saying once again that I think that the Public Works Committee has done a very good job over a number of years. At the same time it is impossible for it to do the job that is required of it because of the limitations of time, facilities and so on. I hope that at its next meeting the Public Works Committee will consider the possibility of expanding its own activities or recommending to the Government the present  Chairman  is  a  Labor Government supporter that an economies commission or something like that should  be  appointed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read  a  second time. 
In Committee 
Clauses 1 and 2  -  by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 3 (Definition). 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to a recent decision of the Supreme Court of South Australia upholding the legal authority of the Prices Commissioner in that State to control doctors' fees? Does this not confirm the view of some eminent legal authorities that government power to control prices also carries with it power to control wages? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Has there been a delay in supplying 1973 telephone directories to South Australian subscribers; if so why. 
When will directories be made available to members of the House of Representatives in Parliament House, Canberra. 
I move: 
That a Select Committee of the House of Representatives be appointed to inquire into and report on the effects on the Australian community if the present voluntary health insurance scheme is replaced by a compulsory, tax financed health insurance scheme as recommended by the Health Insurance Planning Committee and, in particular, to determine - 
any likely inflationary effects; 
any over-utilisation of medical and hospital services; 
the cost to individuals, particularly in relation to hospitalisation; 
any discriminatory aspects for certain categories of taxpayers; &lt;e) any erosion of an individual's freedom of choice  of doctor or hospital, and 
its effect on the national economy and the quality of health care for present and future generations of Australians. 
This motion seeks to establish a joint committee of members of this House to examine all aspects of health insurance. The Government obviously has had some second thoughts on its proposed compulsory scheme. Only this morning, just 10 minutes or so ago, it tabled its much publicised White Paper. I think it is most unfortunate that this Paper could not have been tabled yesterday or at some other time in order to give us an opportunity to have a look at it. I have had a brief look at the White Paper and, so far as I can see, there is no alteration in the essential philosophy of the Government's plan. I refer to paragraph 1.14 on page 13 of the White Paper which states that the Government accepts the essential elements of the recommendations of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. 
There are ample precedents of the experience in other countries to suggest that the Government's scheme is a bad one and that it will permanently damage the quality of public health care to which Australians have become accustomed. For months the Government has attempted, successfully I believe, to concentrate debate on the question of doctors' fees. It has been helped by the lack of cohesion among doctors, their inexperience in political warfare, and the apparent lack of understanding by the media, with consequent public apathy. The misunderstanding of the scheme by the media was demonstrated only last Monday in a report which appeared in various Australian newspapers, including South Australian newspapers, commenting on the Minister's proposed White Paper. The report states: 
. the scheme will provide free public ward treatment for all in Australia. 
This is not the true position. It is no wonder that the public is confused. The scheme will not provide free public ward treatment for all in Australia unless State governments pick up the tab. 
The Minister for Social Security should come out in the open and correct such inaccurate reports. The debate was not and is not about doctors fees. In any case, the doctors' assessment of a fair and reasonable charge for professional attendance has been confirmed by the Government's own tribunal which recently inquired into doctors' fees and incomes. It was not to the Minister's credit that he continued to attack doctors prior to the decision of the Tribunal, using the calculations of his adviser which were inaccurate and which he knew to be inaccurate. If the Minister's adviser, who is an expert economist, can make an error of $10m, which he described as a simple mathematical mistake, one can fairly ask: How many other mistakes have been or are being made? If the Minister is prepared to use calculations which he knows to be false simply to promote his argument what other statements and estimates are likely to be inaccurate or, in parliamentary language, how many of his 'plain facts' as listed in the $750,000 booklet are false statements or only half true? 
On 14 August in Perth the Minister said that the cost of Commonwealth benefits for health care during the years 1969 to 1971 - when we were in government - had risen from $350m to $670m. A study of the annual reports of the departments for this period, however, shows that his figures are wrong. The true costs were less than half the amounts he quoted. So much for the truth. He continues to assert incorrectly that over one million Australians have no protection - I notice that assertion in this document tabled this morning - that is, they are not covered for medical or hospital attention. This is also demonstrably untrue, and I ask him where are these people? If we exclude Queensland, where hospital treatment is already free without a means test, over 83 per cent of the population are members of the voluntary insurance scheme; 9.6 per cent are members of the pensioner medical service; 3 per cent are covered in the defence forces. The truth is that over 96 per cent of the population is formally covered, but in actual practice every person in Australia receives adequate medical and hospital treatment when he or she needs it. 
The Minister has sought to give the Australian electorate the impression that doctors are making too much money and that he and his Government were trying to stop them. In one breath he denigrates doctors, and in the next he tries to bribe them with offers of $50,000 a year to work for the Government. Here again .the Minister or his expert adviser, or someone, made another simple mathematical mistake. He estimated, on 25 October last year, that the cost of Labor's scheme would be in the vicinity of $700m. But the cost of paying the 16,000 doctors in Australia $50,000 each is $800m alone, without any other consideration. The truth has been taking a severe hammering. On 2 May last he told Parliament the average net yearly income of doctors was between $22,000 and $23,000. But his own department has progressively arrived at different estimates until now the average net income is shown as $3,500 less than his first statement. There has been no correction; no apology; only continuing offensive references to the medical profession. 
To compound further the unfairness of the attack upon doctors we have the ludicrous situation of the Labor Government in South Australia fixing doctors' fees under its price control legislation at a figure miles less than that assessed by the independent Tribunal appointed by the Federal Labor Government. This ruling must surely cast doubts on the impartiality and efficacy of a prices branch, especially under Labor. It must also indicate to the Australian public the cynicism of a Government seeking total centralised powers to control prices and wages. The South Australian Supreme Court has upheld the Prices Commissioner's legal right to control doctors' fees. What can possibly be the difference between doctors' fees and plumbers' fees, or between legal fees and building workers' fees, for which we use the word 'wages'? It seems to me that the ruling of the Supreme Court in South Australia means that if the Australian people give the Whitlam Government power to control prices they will thereby give it power to control wages, irrespective of the outcome of the wages question in the referundum. Once the powers are handed over they will never be handed back, and a vote 'Yes' for either proposal is a vote for 'Big Brother' style control over all our lives. 
Labor politicians and Labor-loving sections of the media, of which there are many, continue to assert falsely that we have no positive plans on anything. They believe that if they repeat false statements like these often enough people will gradually come to believe them. The lessons of history, such as Hitler's National Socialism in particular, tend to support this view. The truth is quite the opposite. The existing voluntary scheme is the product of Liberal-Country Party policies evolved perhaps slowly in the 1950s and 1960s but speeded up and expanded during the Prime Ministership of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  We do not claim that it is perfect, but we do claim that it is very good, and we do claim that it is the best in the world. Labor seeks only to destroy it. Our positive policy is to preserve the voluntary system and to improve it in the areas where we had already commenced to improve it when in government. 
Such initiatives include the establishment of a standing independent Tribunal regularly to review doctors' fees and the provision of proper publicity for an expansion of the subsidised health benefits plan, which will positively ensure cover for those under-privileged or newly arrived in Australia, as spelled out in items 17 to 19 on page 3 of the second annual report of the National Health Act, which I ask for leave to have incorporated in Hansard and which I have already shown to the Minister. 
I would like to see the subsidised health benefits plan further expanded so that those on the lower scales of income could be phased into the voluntary funds at discounted premiums which would be related to such factors as family income and number of dependants. It would also seem practicable and sensible to include pensioners in the voluntary scheme so that they too can benefit from personalised hospital and specialist services and not have to rely on hospital out-patient departments and public wards; nor should their doctors have to accept lower fees to treat them. 
By preserving the existing funds and applying a sort of tapered means test from full contribution to part or none at all, we can improve the quality of health care for the less fortunate in our community and still maintain freedom of choice both of doctor and of hospital. The community will also be spared the inflationary effect of another gigantic and unnecessary bureaucracy. I believe that this is entirely consistent with Liberal philosophy, which seeks to encourage the individual to stand on his own feet and to reap the rewards of his own diligence while always remaining conscious of his obligation to help those less fortunate or capable than himself and, applying this view to social security, those less healthy and less fortunate than himself. 
This is the sort of positive policy the LiberalCountry Party puts forward in every area. We feel justified in attacking the stifling, heavy- handed, dehumanising theories of socialism exemplified in this phoney 'free' health scheme, which is not free, which does not provide freedom of choice, and which in fact is none of the things the Government claims it is. 
The Government recently produced a booklet called 'Plain Facts'. It cost the taxpayers $750,000 and was designed to sell to the taxpayer the Government's scheme. A fact is by definition the truth; it is supposed to be a real state of things as distinguished from a mere statement of belief. The Government booklet does not deal in plain facts; it simply asserts certain views and projections and is an unfair collection of half-facts, which are bland and misleading. For example it reads: 
Question: What hospital benefits will I get under the new program? 
Answer: Everyone will be entitled to free treatment in standard wards of public hospitals. The means tests which now limit entry to public wards will be abolished. If you want to go into a private or intermediate ward or a private hospital, the program will sudsidise your costs to the extent of $10-$ 13 a day. You will be able to take out private health insurance to cover the rest. 
The answer was truthful but surely it would have been more honourable to have told us what is involved in the words 'the rest'. Very few people understand the significance of what has been left out of this answer. It is not untrue but it is grossly misleading, and in my experience nearly everybody who has read the booklet believes that it means that there is really no difference from the scheme as it exists today. People seem to think that they will recover, for example, most of hospital accounts under Labor's scheme, as they do today under ours. I repeat that this is not true. The highest refund under the Government's scheme will be $91 a week in a public hospital - from my quick reading of the White Paper this is unchanged - and the cheapest bed in a public hospital in most Australian States costs more than $140 per week. Guess who pays the difference. 
The position is really much worse than this because most Australians  -  70 per cent in South Australia and Victoria, I understand - go to a private, community or religious hospital when they are sick, and the cheapest bed in such hospitals costs at least $189 a week. The maximum Government refund is still only $91 a week - a public ward bed - and the patient will pay the difference. That is what I call a plain fact. It is a plain truth, and I hope the Minister will comment on it. 
The news is even worse if you choose to go to such a hospital and use a private room. The maximum refund by the Government for private accommodation was to have been $70 a week. According to Press leaks this week it was to be $12 a day. A quick reading of this paper indicates that it will be $16 a day so I will base my figures on that. The maximum refund by the Government for private accommodation will be $112 a week. The average cost of such a room in South Australia and Victoria is $259 a week. It was not explained in the Government's pamphlet that the patient would have to pay the difference. 
The Minister's propaganda is totally misleading. He says: 'You will be able to take out private health insurance to cover the rest'. Big deal. On top of a compulsory tax surcharge, which will cost most Australians more than they pay now anyway, to finance the scheme, here is another plain fact and I hope that the Minister will take note of these figures and confirm or deny them. 
I appreciate the interjection. The Minister is not listening and it is unlikely that we will get a comment on this. Take the example of a married couple with 2 children and only the husband working at a salary of $100 a week. One week in a private room in a private hospital will cost $259 a week. The Government rebate, updated to this morning, will be $112 a week. The balance is therefore $147. That is what the wage earner will have to pay. On top of that, the compulsory tax for this person will be $94.64 whereas at the moment he is paying $80.60. So this family would pay more under Labor to join the scheme and, in addition, would pay $147 a week for every week in hospital. As everybody knows, under the Liberal-Country Party plan which we all take for granted nearly 100 per cent of hospital bills is being refunded. Why does the Minister not put that fact in his propaganda booklet of plain misrepresentations? Any Queenslander who thinks Labor's scheme is good for him should have another look at the position. Free hospitalisation is a fact of life in Queensland now, but if Labor has its way most Queensland taxpayers will pay a new federal tax for something they are already receiving. 
The Victorian Government recently announced the possibility of running its own scheme, and who can blame it? The cost of the cheapest public bed in Victoria and South Australia is $140 a week. Labor's scheme will refund a maximum of only $91 a week. If there are people who simply cannot pay the difference even for the cheapest bed, the State governments will have to pay it. State Budgets already are standing the true cost of beds in public teaching hospitals which is well over $350 a week. This probably explains the strange silence of the State Labor Premiers who really do not count for a row of beans with the Whitlam Government. The scheme is so bad, so incredibly doctrinaire in its determination to achieve centralised power over the whole community that the true facts are almost unbelievable. Who could believe that a government would deliberately destroy something which is working well and replace it with something inefficient, wasteful, impersonal and infinitely more costly? The Minister when in Opposition said on 24 October 1972: 
It is always the taxpayer who has to pay . . . these things have an element of deceit in them. The Government should explain more forcibly to members of the community that they, as taxpayers, are always pumping in this extra money. 
Now that he is the Minister he should explain to the community what it will and will not get under Labor's nationalised health scheme. The scheme will not provide wheelchairs, dental care, false teeth, spectacles, physiotherapy, chiropody or ambulance services, many of which are all or partially covered under the existing scheme. It will not provide freedom of choice to any of those who do not enjoy it now simply because under the Labor scheme they will not be able to afford it. Labor's scheme will also create over-utilisation of medical services as occurs in Britain and New Zealand where the waiting time for nonurgent admissions in respect of complaints such as hernia, tonsils, gall bladders, cartileges, varicose veins Or anything troublesome but not vital, has low priority. On 'This Day Tonight' on 27 August a New Zealand general practitioner,  Dr F.  Guyringa said: 
The advice (to Australians) is to take politics out of the medical scheme as much as possible. Politics is one big bad bear, the other big bad bear is when the Government runs a scheme . . . 
That is what is happening in New Zealand. Probably the most significant indictment of socialised medicine was made in Britain by a supporter of the British Government scheme, Professor Henry Miller, on a television interview during October 1967. Professor Miller is Professor of Neurology and Dean of the 
Medical School at the University of NewcastleonTyne. This is what he said in the interview:  the major problems of medical politics are our dilapidated plant, our failure to provide staff adequately to man even the existing service, our disproportionate dependence on immigrant doctors and the rising tide of medical emigration. I recently conducted a higher examination in medicine in a world famous teaching hospital, not half a mile from this studio, to the sound of rain water dripping through the ward ceiling and with buckets placed around the patient's bed. 
Disproportionate dependence on immigrant doctors will also become a feature of this Government's health scheme. I ask the Minister whether it is true that he has written to doctors in the Australian Capital Territory indicating that if they refuse to accept salaried or part time positions he will recruit from overseas. If so, which countries will be involved? What standard of medical professional skill will be set as guidelines? There was a similar experience in Canada. The Health Minister in Canada,  Mr John  Munro, on 19 April 1972 had this to say: 
. there is 'scandalous waste' in Canada's health services . . . Money is being wasted on tests and operations that are not needed and hospitals are buying elaborate equipment that they seldom use . . . Duplication of facilities in neighbouring hospitals is costing many more millions of dollars that could be saved. Doctors spend much of their time treating minor ailments, such as colds and coughs, which could be handled by nurses. We may be under utilising doctors' skills by 60 to 90 per cent because of this. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation, as do other honourable members. 
The honourable member for Dension  (Mr Coates)  has dealt at some length with what he described as health dossiers and the impossibility of the information made available to Government departments being used against individuals. I express significant concern in the opposite direction. I quote as an example what happened during a hearing of the Senate Select Committee on Civil Rights of Migrant Australians on 19 July this year. I refer the honourable member for Denison to page 35 of the Hansard report of the proceedings on that date and to the cross-examination of a witness by one of his own Labor Party colleagues,  Senator James  McClelland. In this instance  Senator James  McClelland used the private medical records of a witness to discredit him. I should like to read briefly from the Hansard record of those proceedings. 

 Senator James McClelland stated: 
So that we will not have to do any guessing, I ask you on behalf of this Committee to request the Minister for Defence, who is responsible for the Navy, to make available to this Committee all papers concerning the Naval service of Leslie Leonard Shaw, and in particular of medical examinations and medical and psychiatric opinions relating to his discharge from the Royal Australian Navy. 
The point I wish to make is that there are some people in the community who will willingly attempt to destroy a person by using the person's so-called private records. So far as any security in any Government department is concerned, having looked at  Senator Murphy's  attitude towards the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, I believe that there is no security whatsoever. I dismiss the defence that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  has put forward. 
Last Thursday just a few minutes before the House dealt with a private member's motion on health insurance this so-called White Paper entitled 'The Australian Health Insurance Program' - my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  referred to it as a whitewash paper - was tabled. We had a few minutes to look at it and we still have not had time to really examine it. I have had a chance to have a look at some aspects of this so-called White Paper but before dealing with them I ask the 
Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  whether he will ask the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  to answer the 5 questions that I put to him in the debate last Thursday because he did not answer any of them. 
I will enumerate them. 1 thank the Minister for his interjection. The first relates to the error of $10m in calculating doctors' fees and the second relates to the erroneous figure used by the Minister to discredit doctors in Perth on 14 August last when he referred to the cost of medical services when we on this side were in government. He inflated the figure by 100 per cent. Thirdly, will he explain the figure, which 1 claim to be incorrect and false, and which is repeated in this so-called White Paper, in regard to the number of people who are not insured and who previously he said had no protection. I want to know where those people are. Fourthly, will he explain the estimate he made in October 1972 of the amount of $700m as the cost of the health scheme when the Labor Party got into office? We all know that the amount will be infinitely higher than that. The fifth question relates to the miscalculation in respect of doctors' incomes which he mentioned on three or four occasions, starting at $23,000 and ending at something under $20,000. 
They are just a few of things which I have selected from the debate last Thursday which the Minister did not answer and to which we would like to have answers. I would like the Minister to be a little more explicit than is the White Paper in regard to the number of Australians who are not insured. I appreciate the fact that the Minister is paying attention and will give us some answers. He will remember saying that one million people have no protection. In the White Paper he said that over one million Australians are not insured. Will he give the Committee some explanation on this matter? According to figures I have, 83.2 per cent of the Australian population are voluntary members of health insurance funds; 9.6 per cent are in the pensioner medical service; 3 per cent are in the repatriation medical benefits service and almost one per cent are covered by defence forces benefits. On the figures that I have, that is nearly 97 per cent of the population. 
I have dealt with just some of the points that were raised in the debate last Thursday. We on this side of the chamber have had no opportunity to have a thorough look at this White Paper but there are two or three things in it which stand out. At page 4 the White Paper - I take it this is the Minister's paper - he deals with what he describes as the wealthier person's contribution for insurance cover and how that is worth more as a tax deduction. The Minister quoted the case of a man with a wife and 2 children in the State of New South Wales, earning $70 a week and paying $77 a year for medical and public ward hospital insurance after tax. I would not dispute that; it is probably right; I have not had time to look it up. But the Minister went on to say that a comparable family on $400 a week pays $52 a year after tax. I would like to know the grounds on which he worked out that figure. There are many hypothetical inferences. What concessions were used in arriving at those figures? What assumptions were made in regard to the period of hospitalisation? I think those figures are quite ina.curate 
I think that the statement on page 51 paragraph 4.29 is false. I will not use anything stronger than that,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  because you would not appreciate it. It is less than truthful. Paragraph 4.29 states: 
The $16 per bed day which will be available under the new program compares with a $2 per day Australian Government benefit now paid to patients in private hospitals. 
That seems to indicate that patients who are currently going into private hospitals are recouping only $2 a day. The position is that the cost of accommodation in a private hospital is at least $30 a day and under our scheme - the voluntary scheme - patients who are currently going into private hospitals are recouping nearly the full cost. So in truth this White Paper is under-estimating by $14 a day the actual amount of money that is recouped. I wish that the Minister would be serious about this because it is a serious matter. Paragraph 4.3 1 of the White Paper reads: 
These arrangements will provide substantial cover foi the average fees of private hospitals throughout Australia. 
That is quite untrue. If I were allowed to use a stronger word, I would do so. 
It is not telling the truth. Paragraph 4.31 of the White Paper continues: 
It should be pointed out that if the present system were to continue, patients seeking coverage for private hospital treatment would be required to take insurance cover for at least $14 per day more than that proposed under the new program. 
That is a false statement. At the moment a person in the voluntary scheme has almost the whole of the $30 refunded. Under the program which your Party,  Sir, is  sponsoring, a person would have to pay the difference between $16 and $30. The Government would not pay; it would be the person who would have to insure privately. On top of that he would pay the compulsory tax. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)  - Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Overseas 
Trade, upon notice: 
What was the value of (a) exports to, and (b) imports from South Africa for the years 1971-72 and 1972-73. 
What percentage of the export trade was supplied by manufacturers based in South Australia. 
I was very interested in the speech of the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner).  I thought that it covered the subject extremely well. I should like to take up the same subject because it seems to me that in a comparatively short time the relationships between the Parliament and the Press have taken almost a full circle. It was only in 1771 that the House of Commons prosecuted some poor, humble printer in London because he dared to distribute a document relating to debates that took place in the House of Commons. That happened in 1771, which was really not such a long time ago. It was only in 1845 - just over 100 years ago - .that the Press Gallery was able to establish itself in the House of Commons. To strike a somewhat sour note, I point out that it is now 1973 and we have the situation where the Australian Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  reports on many issues to the Press Gallery rather than to the Parliament. I think this is the point that the honourable member for Bradfield was trying to make. I do not blame members of the Press Gallery. It is the Prime Minister's fault. I think that generally the relationship 'between the media and members of Parliament is not always as bad as it appears to be. 
I share the view which was expressed by the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  that many of our problems are similar to those faced by members of the Press Gallery, particularly in regard to the cramped accommodation which we are forced to accept in this building. We all work long hours and we all have deadlines to meet. This applies both to journalists in the Press Gallery and to ourselves. I think those pressures have produced certain features which I believe are undesirable in this Parliament. I refer particularly to the habit of distribution of prepared speeches to the Press Gallery before the speech is read in the Parliament. There are times when this is necessary. I accept that and I realise that this would apply in the case of Ministers. But anybody could have written those speeches. We do not know who writes some speeches. I think, as the honourable member for Bradfield said, that this is one reason why we are losing all the sharpness of debate. It seems to me that it is much better for honourable members to come into this place and make a dreadful speech from notes or off-the-cuff than it is to make a perfect one by reading a speech which may have been prepared by somebody else. I recall that in the dying stages of the previous Parliament a member who is still a member today had a prepared speech that he wished to deliver on the adjournment debate. At midnight,  Mr Speaker  stood up and apparently because he did not see the honourable member standing left the chamber. The next morning that member's speech appeared in some daily newspapers although it was never made in the Parliament. The honourable member had to make it the following night. That is hardly the purpose of debate. That is one of the bad things that has come out of the system under which we operate in this place today. 
I commend to honourable members a recent Inter Parliamentary Union report called, I think, 'Press and Parliament' which dealt with this matter. There are many interesting features mentioned in that report which apply to the situation in Australia. In some countries things are even worse than they are here. As one honourable member mentioned, in Britain journalists receive copies of speeches on the Budget and on the Estimates 24 hours before the Budget is delivered and I do not think there has ever been a single leak. In Canada journalists receive copies of speeches in the same way but all the journalists are locked up. Apparently in that country there is not the same confidence as there is in Britain. In Congo-Brazzaville whatever is dished out by the Government has to be reported that way by the journalists. 
I suggest that if we could arrange to have some sort of reporting system which would put the views of both sides I would be very happy. We all like to be reported. I take it that all members of Parliament like to be reported and talked about although we do not always like the things that are said about us, but that is part of the game. 
There are a few matters about which I would like to complain, in respect of some sections of the media, at any rate, on the odd chance that some of them may be listening. One matter that is high on the list of complaints is what I believe to be a continuing campaign against the Leaders of my Party - the Liberal Party. 
I do not say it is by all sections of the Press, but it is carried out by a significant portion of the Press. This has been happening for several years. It happened firstly in regard to the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and it also happened in respect of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  when those gentlemen held the office of Prime Minister. It is happening now - 'and I am complaining about this most bitterly - to the Leader of our Party in Opposition, the honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden).  I am sure that most honourable members here will remember about 2 years ago when the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe, was travelling to a conference in London and because he did not travel the whole of the way with Qantas Airways Ltd - I think he crossed the Pacific with some other airline - a tremendous amount of criticism was levelled against him. The only way he could travel across the Pacific was to use the facilities of some other airline. He travelled with a staff of six with some other company, Pan American Airways or something like that. 
I appreciate the interjection because in the last couple of weeks we saw the Prime Minister of this country charter a Boeing 707 to travel to Japan and China. This is the second occasion on which this has happened. He had an entourage of over 50 people and I believe there was an enormous quantity of champagne and lots of other perks. Yet there was no criticism from the media. I believe that a Prime Minister should travel in some sort of style. But if we are to criticise previous Prime Ministers who travelled in a most humble way then let us criticise the present Prime Minister. The proposed appointment of  Mr Mick  Young who comes from my own State and who is a very successful operator - no one knows better than we do - may warrant criticism. What would have happened when we were in Government if one of our Prime Ministers had appointed the Federal Leader of the Liberal Party as his personal adviser on the best way to keep in touch with Liberal Party branches? 
There would have been criticism to high heaven. There has not been a word of criticism about this proposed appointment. As the honourable member for Moore says, they would have killed us. But of course none of our leaders has ever done that. I have been dying to say something for years about broadcasting talk-back programs. We have these wretched programs in the State of South Australia. I take it that we face the same problems as do other States. I do not listen to them very often, but whenever I do I do not think an occasion goes by without hearing someone being defamed or libelled by some anonymous person. I think this is a field which radio stations should take some steps to clean up. It is easy for somebody to telephone a radio entrepreneur and defame someone who is in public life. It has happened to me more times than I can remember. A further aggravation is the fact that many of the people who run these talkback programs are ministers of religion. I have yet to hear one of them preach the gospel on radio talk-back programs; it is all politics. I think this is a retrograde step in the media. 
It is unfortunate that we have only 10 minutes in which to speak in estimates debates and that time seems to fly. I should like to be somewhat critical of the way in which the media have reported the French nuclear tests. I believe that the media has been highly selective. I think the reason for this is that it takes a great deal of technical knowledge to understand  all  the  aspects  of reports on such tests. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.14 to 8 p.m. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented yesterday at question time by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Birrell)  and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  The misrepresentation appears at pages 3181 and 3182 of Hansard. The passage is far too long to read. The honourable member for Port Adelaide and the Minister sought to discredit material on the health scheme that I have been circulating in my electorate and implied that it was false and untrue. The position is that the pamphlet was distributed about a month ago and the figures therein were correct until the day the White Paper was tabled in this Parliament. The figures have never been questioned outside the Parlia ment - only here under privilege. I should like to quote the figures, updated according to the White Paper. They deal with private accommodation in a private hospital. One week in a private room in a private hospital - this is the top rate - costs $259. Under the Government's proposed scheme there will be a refund of $112, which means that the patient will have to pay $147 a week. 
A person in a private room in a private hospital who is paying $259 a week will receive a refund of $238 from the present funds, under the existing scheme. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I am doing that. It may seem that I am making a speech, but I am not doing that at all. It is necessary for me to do what I am doing. The Minister's answer yesterday covered 2 pages of Hansard. The position is not as the Minister said it was. Under the present scheme, a person in the situation I have mentioned will be paying only $21 a week, but under the Government's scheme he will be paying $147 a week. I will not transgress your ruling,  Mr Speaker- 
 Mr Speaker,  I will bow to your ruling. I assure you that I am not introducing new matter. The Minister, who continues to take points of order, is talking about public hospital accommodation. If he would, in response, clear up this matter he would do a service to the nation. 
I wish to complete the personal explanation,  Mr Speaker,  and reply to the Minister. The position in relation to public hospital accommodation has not been spelled out to us.  Mr Speaker,  I will not test your patience any more. The Minister is suffering a severe case of paraphrenia. 
If I had stated the whole of the misrepresentation it would have taken up 2 pages of Hansard. I endeavoured to short circuit the matter. I resent the constant and unnecessary denigration by the Minister of members on this side of the House. In my view, it discloses paraphrenia. 
There will be no more business until the House comes to order. There are too many interjections. If honourable members continue to defy the Chair I assure them that I will take action. Order! I warn the honourable member for Barker. 
I should like to go on record because in the years ahead these debates will be read by other people, by those who follow us and, who knows, perhaps by some of our children. I wish to support the honourable member for Wentworth in what he had to say about the events of last Wednesday and Thursday. Like him, I reject completely the allegations about the honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes).  I was here throughout the whole of the proceedings, and I have no hesitation in saying that all of the matters raised by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  were untrue. The honourable member for Barker was nol sprawling on the table as the Prime Minister described. During most of that evening we were - I would think probably 20 of us - watching television in the Party room, and the honourable member for Barker was one of those present, watching. I would also say that anything the Prime Minister had to say about what happened the next day was a complete falsehood. To say that the honourable member was hung up was unfair and untrue. Unfortunately, we are not able to say the words that we believe- 
1 appreciate that,  Mr Speaker.  I am not referring to that debate. 
I am talking about what happened last Wednesday and Thursday, and what happened during the weekend outside the House. I wish to make the point that as from today, without reflecting upon this debate, any member in this place can reflect upon any other member in a way that would imply that that member was drunk or had been drinking - whether it be true of false - and, according to the precedent laid down today, nothing can be done about it. I could say, for example, that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was at this moment reeling, drunk in the aisles and you,  Mr Speaker,  to be consistent, could not possibly correct me. Yet we all know that the honourable gentleman is a teetotaller. It is this aspect of what has happened in the past few days that I deplore most. Anybody can say anything along those lines about anybody in this place, and completely destroy his character, whether it be true or false. I deplore what I believe to be the reduction of the standard of parliamentary debate and parliamentary democracy. I am disappointed in people on the other side of the House because not all the good guys are on this side of the House. There must be some decent fellows on the Government side of the House who are as disturbed as we are about what has happened. I can remember when the Minister was in Opposition and he was righteously and, I think, reasonably concerned, and called me a liar. He was named. When he withdrew, the whole thing was blown over. However, those good old days of chumieness have gone. It is to my eternal regret that there were not at least 4 people on the Government side of the House who had enough courage to stand up and say what they knew in their hearts to be right because the honourable member for Barker was completely innocent of all the things of which the Prime Minister accused him. I am pleased to be associated with the honourable member for Wentworth in placing this on record. I think that posterity will be the judge. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
What criteria are used by the ABC to determine the content and balance of the program 'Four Corners'. 
Following the  45  minute eulogy of  Mr J.  Mundey, written and directed by Caroline Jones, on the weekend  18-19  August  1973,  will the Minister suggest to the Commission that efforts be made to restore this program to its former high level of objective reporting. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Has any inquiry been received from the Portuguese Government or any Portuguese agency expressing interest in the Australian-made Nomad aircraft. 
If so, how many aircraft are involved and what orders have been placed. 
In the 60 seconds left to me, I wish to bring to the attention of the House what I consider to be a most urgent matter which was brought to my attention just half an hour ago. I refer to Australian citizens who are stranded in Papua New 
Guinea in areas where only Trans-Australia Airlines has the franchise to operate. 
As a matter of fact, I appreciate the interjection. They could well be in the cannibal area. One of my constituents telephoned me tonight. Her daughter is in Rabaul and she cannot leave Rabaul simply because there are no TAA nights in or out. As I recall, there is what is described as a milk run which travels from Rabaul to Manus Island and various other places in Papua New Guinea but there are no other flights in or out of the Territory. I am concerned about this matter and I hoped to speak to the Minister tonight. 
House adjourned at 11 jp.ni. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the system of payment for Parliamentary functions such as the Reception for the New Zealand Prime Minister held on 14 November 1973. 
What was the cost of this function. 
Was he personally responsible for any of the cost of this hospitality. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
In view of the legislation sponsored by the Government to give recognition to basic human rights, what is the justification for the Government to withhold passports from public servants and others seeking to travel to Southern Rhodesia and Taiwan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Why does the Government use the term Zimbabwe in referring to Southern Rhodesia. 
Are there any Zimbabwe people and is there any such race, culture or nation. 
Is it a fact that the Matabele and Mashona tribes comprise 90 per cent of the African population of the region. 
If so, does the term Zimbabwe have any significance to members of these tribes. 
If not, why does the Australian Government continue to use the word. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister had recent discussions with the Foreign Minister or any other Minister of the Sudan. 
If so, did the Minister discuss such matters as the discrimination by the Arab Muslims in the North towards the negroid Christians in the South. 
Did the Minister express any concern at the massacre of thousands of negroid Christians in the Sudan over the last 5 years. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Why does the Government use the term Namibia in referring to South West Africa? 
Are there any Namibian people and is there any such race, culture or nation? 
Is it a fact that the Ovambo people comprise nearly half the population of the region and regard the area as Ovamboland? 
Is Ovamboland a self-governing territory? 
If not, what is the function of the Legislative Council and Executive Council in Oshakate? 
Does the term Namibia have any significance to the people of South West Africa? 
If not, why does the Australian Government continue to use the word? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Will the Government give favourable consideration to making it possible for pension cheques to be paid directly into pensioners' bank accounts. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the industrial dispute with TAA pilots, what steps are being taken to facilitate the movement of passengers and goods over routes flown solely by TAA in Papua New Guinea. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
Further to his answer to question No. 1026 (Hansard, 22 November 1973, page 3789) concerning the 50 to 100 Nomad aircraft which the Government has refused to supply to the Portuguese Air Force, what firm orders has the Government received for this aircraft, and from whom. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Government's attention been drawn to the military invasion by the North Vietnamese Army into South Viet-Nam and Cambodia. 
If so, what is the Government's attitude to this clear breach of the peace agreements reached in Paris in 1972. 
Is it expected by the Government that the visit by, the Minister for Overseas Trade to Hanoi will be recognised as evidence by interested (a) Communist countries and (b) non-Communist countries that the Australian Government supports the North Vietnamese aggression. 
Is it possible that Australian aid to and/ or trade with North Viet-Nam actually assists that country to make war on her neighbours. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What are the names and qualifications of the members of the reconstituted Literature Board of the Australian Council for the Arts. 
Is it a fact that the purpose of the recent $1.3 million grant was to encourage writers who were in need of financial assistance to work full-time to complete their work. 
Were all judges present when the awards were voted upon; if not, who were absent. 
Is any member of the Board connected with any publication where an employee received an award. 
How many of the recipients were already in receipt of previous Australian grants. 
What are the names of the recipients who are in receipt of salaries from, for example newspapers, theatre companies, schools, libraries, Government departments or any other sources. 
What are the names of the newspapers, theatre companies, schools, libraries, Government departments etc. concerned. 
Have any of these recipients produced any works as authors; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice:  (1)Is it a fact that the charge to patients for the cheapest beds in public hospitals in South Australia, such as the Royal Adelaide, is currently $20 per day. 
Is it also a fact that the charge to patients for share-room accommodation in Community/Religious hospitals in South Australia is currently $30 per day, and private room accommodation $37 per day. 
If not, what are the current rates. 
If the rates are as stated, is it the Government's intention to contribute $16 per day towards the charges in all these examples. 
If so, who will be responsible for the payment of the difference in each case. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the intensive on-site radio course in Indonesian still conducted at HMAS Coonawarra, Darwin? 
If not, when was the course abandoned, and why? 
asked the Leader of the House, upon notice: 
If the Government intends to move a motion similar to the Order of the House of 1 March 1973, will he give consideration to providing that a member who commences his speech on the adjournment after 10.50 p.m. but before 11 p.m. will be permitted to complete it. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice:  What is the salary and allowances for accommodation and travelling of  Mr J.  Mundey in his capacity as an executive on the Australian Conservation Foundation. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of the interest of honourable members from both sides of the House in the newly formed branch of Amnesty International which seeks to assist the innocent victims of political repression in all countries? If so, will he discuss with the  President  of Tanzania the plight of the thousands of Asians, Arabs and other detainees held in Tanzania gaols without trial and with no hope of release except on the personal order of the President? Will the Prime Minister subsequently make to the House a statement on this discussion? 
There is only one point I wish to make in response to the speech of the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews).  It refers to the first part of his speech in which he went to some length in discussing the sewerage situation in New South Wales. Seeing that I come from one of the smaller States I think that it is not inappropriate for me to make this point: He must remember that the State of New South Wales which has 44 per cent of the Australian population and which contributes a majority of the revenue from taxation is really subsidising, quite significantly, the smaller States. If he works out the figures and compares them with his colleague who is presently sitting on his left he will find that as Tasmania has only 3 per cent of the Australian population, the average taxpayer in New South Wales is subsidising the Tasmanian taxpayer on a two to one basis. If the New South Wales Government could gather all its tax revenue and spend it as it desired it would have the best sewerage system in the world. South Australia has 9 per cent of the Australian population and' we still have some work to be done within our sewerage system. The point is that New South Wales and Victoria are subsidising the smaller States, and this is the whole purpose of the Federal system. I do not know whether the honourable member for Casey is nodding agreement with me or not. The point I wish to make is that I do not think it is fair to knock successive governments in New South Wales - whether they be Liberal, Country Party or Labor - because revenue is taken away from them and spent in smaller states. 
So it looks as though the honourable gentleman and I are in total agreement. I look forward to meeting him in some other place. Unfortunately it will be impossible for me to retain this spirit of fellowship for the rest of the evening because I wish to place on the record what I believe to be a series of quite improper practices which have been adopted by the Labor Government since it came into office. I do this reluctantly, but I do it now because of the sorts of things about which I am concerned are happening so fast that very soon we will forget them and there will not be any record of them. I would place them under the general title of jobs for the boys' - what we might describe as the spoils of office. We saw what happened in the United Kingdom under  Mr Harold  Wilson. He got into office and spread the largess around. 
I will deal with that, too. I hope that the House will bear with me if I mention some of the spoils of office which have been distributed by the Labor Government in the first few months of its term of office. One hardly bears to think what the future will hold if this rate continues. I will take the members of the Ministry one by one. I shall refer first to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  I must regretfully point out to the House and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Minister for 
Overseas Trade now has on his staff 2 officers over and above the establishment. I do not know how this sort of thing is made legal, but there it is. 
Shortly after getting into office - and by shortly' I mean one day - the Minister for Overseas Trade appointed his son as his private secretary. I have nothing against appointing sons as private secretaries. I would sooner have one of my sons as private secretary than have some others around this place. But it is part of a pattern, and I do not dispute that greatly. But I think that the thing about which I express my concern more than anything else is the appointment by the Minister for Overseas Trade of the former member for Bendigo,  Mr David  Kennedy as his Press secretary. I am not criticising  Mr Kennedy,  because he and I were reasonably good friends in this place, but the Minister for Overseas Trade has appointed  Mr Kennedy  as his Press secretary on a salary of approximately $10,500 a year.  Mr Kennedy  was formerly a primary school teacher, and it is anybody's guess what he would know about being a Press secretary. But the point to which I want to draw the attention of the House is that  Mr Kennedy  has been reendorsed as the Labor Party candidate for Bendigo at the next Federal election. This simply means that  Mr Kennedy  is campaigning - and no one would deny that - for the next election and his salary is being paid by the taxpayers. I think that is quite improper. 

 Mrs Child, who was the defeated candidate in the electorate of Henty, has been appointed by the Minister for Overseas Trade as his trade union liaison officer. I am not quite sure what that means, but I guess that her salary would be between $10,000 and $12,000 a year.  Mrs Child  has been reendorsed as the Labor Party candidate for Henty. I think it is improper that an endorsed Labor Party candidate can campaign and have his or her salary paid by the taxpayers. I have a few more examples. Although this is slightly different, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has appointed  Mrs Margaret  Whitlam to the board of Commonwealth Hostels Ltd. 
The Minister says that it is a good appointment. I do not know whether we can dispute that or not. I guess that there are people with better qualifications. But it seems to be improper for the wife of the 
Prime Minister to be appointed to a paid job on some Government board. If I were a social worker with qualifications I do not think that I would be voting Labor at the next election. 
I suppose that with taxation and inflation the way they are, the only way in which some of us can survive is by having our wives work, and I think we all recognise that. 
The -Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  has appointed to his staff  Mr Kirwan,  whom I remember well in this place. He is the defeated member for the electorate of Forrest.  Mr Kirwan  used to sit over near the attendants' booth. I know that I discovered this about 3 years after he got into the Parliament. For the first two or three years I thought that he was one of the attendants. That shows how much activity he engaged in in this place. It was not until on one occasion he attacked the previous Government's policy in Vietnam and described national servicemen as murderers that I realised that this man was a member of this House. In the poll he was defeated soundly in the electorate of Forrest in Western Australia. The Minister for Education appointed him as his private secretary on a salary of about $10,000 a year plus perks. The interesting part about this is that I have it on pretty good authority that  Mr Beazley  did not want to have  Mr Kirwan  as his private secretary but he was overruled by the Prime Minister, who sought to ensure that one of the boys got a job. Knowing the reputation of the Minister for Education, I would be inclined to believe that suggestion. 
It is also interesting to note that  Mr Kirwan  resigned from  Mr Beazley's  staff for 3 weeks in order to contest a seat in the Western Australian State elections- I think it was die seat of Bunbury. 
He has got into the very good habit of being thoroughly defeated at elections. I do not think that we will see the former member for Forrest in this place or in any other similar place during our lifetime. The Minister for the Media, a senator in another place, appointed to his staff  Mr Bill  Rigby who is an old friend of the Minister and a former organiser of the Miscellaneous 
Workers Union in New South Wales. I suppose you could say that that is a bit of a job for the boys. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs who was formerly Minister for Works,  Senator Cavanagh,  appointed his son as private secretary on a salary, I guess, of about $10,000 a year. 
I think we should also note that the Prime Minister has 5 more people on his staff than his predecessor had. In addition to these people on his staff, for whom the taxpayers are paying, the Prime Minister has appointed  Mr Mick  Young as his trade union liaison officer. I suggest to honourable members that  Mr Mick  Young is employed in the Prime Minister's Department at the taxpayers' expense in order to campaign for the next Federal election. 
They will not be in debt so much this time because last time the Labor Party paid their salaries. This time the poor unfortunate taxpayer has to pay their salaries. This is the point that I think we should bring to the notice of the taxpayer. During the election campaign  Mr Young  travelled with the then Leader of the Opposition in VIP aircraft.  Mr Young  has accompanied the Prime Minister to London and Rome on a flight costing, I believe, in excess of $90,000. I think that this is an appointment that the general public should really deplore. 
Before I leave the staff of the Prime Minister's office, I point out that he also appointed to his staff a  Mr Colin  Bednall, who was the defeated Labor candidate for Flinders at the last House of Representatives election. I do not know whether  Mr Bednall  has been reendorsed as the candidate for Flinders at the next House of Representatives election. Is he? 
But I will bet he is. I bet he is spending his time campaigning at our expense. 
Some of the most interesting appointments were made by the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The Minister for Labour appointed a former defeated member of this House- 
-. . .  Mr Norman  Foster. If honourable members opposite grant me an extension of time, I will deal with  Mr Arthur  also.  Mr Foster  was the honourable member for Sturt in the last Parliament and he was quite well known in this place. He was not known for anything really but stirring up trouble. The Minister for Labour has appointed him as a trouble shooter to settle trouble in the trade unions. I have been unable to ascertain his salary and I suppose that is  Mr Foster's  business. Equally, I have not been able to find out what he has done. I think it is worth placing on record in this place that  Mr Norman  Foster, the defeated Labor member for Sturt, is now the endorsed Labor candidate, holding No. 1 position on the ticket, for the Legislative Council in South Australia. He is the Labor Party leader on that ticket. 
I do no want to bring politics into this debate but here we have the No. 1 candidate on the Labor ticket employed by the Department of Labour. No one knows where he is or what he is doing except that we suspect that he is spending his time campaigning. I should like to read to the House what the duties of  Mr Foster  were supposed to be.  Mr Cameron  stated in Adelaide the night after the last House of Representatives election- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! Whilst the remarks might be very distasteful and perhaps, from the honourable member's point of view, lacking in good taste I find nothing in the Standing Orders to prevent the honourable member for Boothby from completing his remarks. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I detect a faint note of disapproval in your ruling, but I thank you for it. I quote what  Mr Clyde  Cameron said in Adelaide the night after the last House of Representatives election. He said:   . . that  Mr Foster  had got the job because of his extraordinary experience in the trade union movement and industry. 
He had the kind of personality needed for the work. 
He will visit trouble spots in initial stages or when unrest is simmering . . . 
Unfortunately I have not time to read the entire contents of this quite interesting Press statement. I am sure that honourable members opposite would not allow me to incorporate it in Hansard. The Minister for Labour went on to say: 
He will be able to walk into my office - 
That is,  Mr Cameron's  office: 
. at any time. He will be my trouble shooter - he won't have to wait for me to ask him to go. 
I want to know where  Mr Foster  is today. In South Australia today - unfortunately I have lost my Press cutting - approximately 3,000 people are unemployed in the metal trades industry because of strikes. A 1,000-word article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' today mentions the various union leaders but not a single mention was made of  Mr Foster,  the trouble shooter. 
I shall give honourable members an example of what  Mr Foster  said he would do when he was appointed to this position. He said: 
The first thing I plan to do is put a big calendar on the wall and mark on it the date every major trade union award or agreement falls due. 
And then as the time draws near I'll talk to the trade unions and employers involved to see what problems or disputes are likely to arise. 
And so he goes on. I put it to the House that  Mr Foster  has not, so far as I am aware, solved a single trade union dispute. All he has done is campaign for the Legislative Council- 
Yes, at the taxpayers' expense, and I object to that. It is interesting to note, according to the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of October 1973, that one of the 5 persons endorsed by the Labor Party for the Legislative Council in South Australia - they include  Mr Foster  - is  Mr C.  J. Sumner, who is fourth on the ticket. I have only stumbled across this matter in the last few days. But it is curious to find that a  Mr C.  J. Sumner is on the payroll of the Minister for Repatriation,  Senator Bishop.  According to the details supplied on the nomination forms,  Mr C.  J. Sumner, who has been endorsed by the Labor Party, is a solicitor. I suggest to the House that the two C. J. Sumners, are one and the same person. I suggest this, reinforced with the memory that just 2 elections ago a  Mr C.  J. Sumner was the endorsed Labor candidate against me. He was, unfortunately, defeated at that election! However. he will stand for the Legislative Council poll in South Australia as one of the endorsed Labor candidates, and he has a job with  Senator Bishop.  One would need a long extension of time in order to be able to put all this material into the Hansard record. 
On 15 February 1966, the present Prime Minister took part in a television series produced by Channel 7 in which he discussed the witless men' of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive. It always irritates me to find one of my colleagues in this place rubbished by his own Leader. This is what the Prime Minister did about the honourable member for Bonython,  Mr Martin  Nicholls. I have great respect and affection for the honourable member for Bonython. But the Prime Minister said: 
. one our our mates,  Mr Martin  Nicholls, who has been in the House of Representatives for two years - I'm certain nobody outside his own State has heard of him . . . 
This is the classic Whitlam way of destroying somebody. He went on to say in relation to the Executive of the ALP:   . . four are members of Parliament, and only one of them, Harry Webb, has ever made the grade or will ever make the grade in the Federal Parliament, the only one who'd ever be a minister. 
I think that on that occasion the Prime Minister's crystal ball let him down because  Mr Martin  Nicholls is now the  Deputy  Government Whip. I am sure he is doing a good job. He is elected by honourable members opposite to do that job.  Mr Harry  Webb was defeated at the last election. 
This is the whole point. This is where the jobs for the boys come in. I have great respect for  Mr Harry  Webb. I think he will do a first-class job. But it is interesting to note that the Prime Minister has appointed him as Administrator of Christmas Island. I do not know what that spoil of office means in terms of money but I do know that it does not mean much in terms of work. According to the annual report of Christmas Island in 1972, only 2,700 live there. The population is decreasing at the rate of 10 per cent a year. So by the time  Mr Harry  Webb leaves office, there will only be his wife and two or three Chinese for him to represent on Christmas Island. I think that  Mr Webb  will do very well at that job. As we go back through some of the other jobs for the boys we will find that  Mr Bruce  Grant was appointed as Australia's High Commissioner to India.  Mr Bruce  Grant has no diplomatic experience whatsoever.  His  qualification was that he wrote favourable articles for the Labor Party in a Victorian newspaper. Yet, the Labor Government made him the Australian High Commissioner for India, one of the highest jobs in the diplomatic corps. Heaven knows what his' salary would be. 

 Mr Noel Beaton, who was a former member of this House and for whom I have great respect, has been appointed to the Cities Commission as an employee. When . any of you chaps are defeated - and some of you will be defeated at the next election - you will all have jobs if the Labor Government is lucky enough to stay in office. 
Debate interrupted. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 2 occasions. I will be as brief as possible. The Prime Minister persists in saying, inside and outside this House, things about me and my colleagues which are untrue. In particular, I refer to yesterday's question time, as reported at page 525 of Hansard. I asked the Prime Minister a question about political prisoners. The Prime Minister responded by saying something about me that was untrue. I thought that in his subsequent response he had withdrawn and apologised, but I find now, on reading Hansard, that in fact he did not. He said in his reply: 
I cannot prove that he - 
That is me -  was the guest of the Smith regime. 
He went on to say that it was an amazing coincidence that I happened to be there at that particular time. Then he finished up saying: 
I accept his assurance. 
Apparently that means an assurance that I  had paid for myself. But he did not with draw. I just wish to place it on record thatI do not regard that as a withdrawal and I still resent his reference. But I shall not press the point. 
However, I wish to refer also to the Prime Minister's Press conference yesterday, when he responded to a question by a journalist and gave the very answer that I was seeking in this House. I make the point that the proper place for the Prime Minister to answer questions from members is in this House and not at Press conferences. We could have been saved a great deal of anguish if he had given that answer in the House. Not satisfied .with answering the question, he went on to further denigrate me, but not by name. I quote from the transcript of that Press conference- 
I appreciate the interjection. I know that the honourable member for Adelaide wishes to assist me. This is how I know: The Prime Minister said: 
I notice there is a question on notice and there was also a question without notice from a man whose consistent scrutiny or even ill-will towards Tanzania are known to you all. 
I am the only one who has a question on notice. I am also the only one who has asked a question without notice. So obviously it must refer to me. I say that this allegation is totally untrue. I have in fact put 7 questions on notice at different times in the last 12 months. One df them was about the United Nations Committee of Twenty-four, to which I received no answer. Tanzania happens to be a member of it. I asked a question without notice in this place about the imprisonment of the opposition in Zambia. The Prime Minister did not anwser the question properly. I doubt if he knows where Zambia is. In his answer he attacked the South African Government on apartheid. 
The third one was a question on Ethiopia, which I put down on 13 December and which still remains unanswered. The fourth one was a question on the Sudan, which was answered. The fifth was a question on South West Africa, which the Prime Minister refers to as Namibia. The sixth was a question on Rhodesia, which he refers to as Zimbabwe. The seventh question, which is on notice at this moment and to which I hope eventually to get an answer is on Tanzania. So it is untrue to say, as the Prime Minister has said, that my scrutiny - even ill-will - has been directed towards Tanzania over a number of years. My scrutiny has been directed towards all of Africa and towards the United Nations. 3 know that the Standing Orders will not allow me to use the words that I would like to use to describe the Prime Minister and the way I feel about him but I will say that I regard him as being a chronic purveyor of untruths. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has any suggestion or directive been made to the Australian Taxation Office seeking special examination of the taxation returns of medical practitioners. 
If not, has his attention been drawn to the type of information being sought by the Taxation Office in lengthy questionnaires, such as a dissection of business mileages (a) between residence and hospitals, (b) between hospitals, (c) in connection with private practice and (d) other (specify). 
If no directive has been issued, will he ascertain how many medical practitioners in South Australia have received questionnaires relating to their (a) 1972-73 and (b) 1971-72 returns. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What will be the total cost, taking into account (a) ordinary salary rate and (b) overtime, to the various Departments associated with the Parliament as a result of the Parliament sitting on the Canberra Day holiday. 
What would be the cost of an extra day's sitting, such as the proposed sitting during the Easter break, to the same Departments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Ethiopian Government requested the Australian Government and/or the United Nations for assistance to alleviate the suffering of the people of Northern Ethiopia and Eritrea. 
If so, when were the requests received and what has been the response. 
How long have the conditions of this region been evident to the Australian Government. 
In view of the continuing hostilities between the Ethiopian Government and the inhabitants of 
Eritrea, can the Minister say whether a state of near civil war exists in this region. 
Can the Minister also say (a) whether there is any evidence of ethnic, racial or religious discrimination between those of Hamitic origin in the south and those of Moslem origin in Eritrea and (b) whether hostilities have resulted in the death of over 100,000 persons over the last 4 years. 
If the position is as stated, will the Australian Government bring the matter to the notice of the United Nations Committee of 24 of which Ethiopia is a fellow-member. 
I would like to take part briefly in this debate, which is really a narrow debate on a Bill dealing simply with the surpluses which have been accumulated in the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund and what should be done with them. I would like to comment briefly on the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  who is now leaving the chamber. He went to some trouble to say how much the present Commonwealth Government has done for the Public Service. He said that it is the best government for the Public Service. It seems to me that what he should be able to say that it is the best government for Australia and Australians, because it cannot be both. I would dissociate myself from the sentiment the honourable member expressed. He also made a great play about the 4 weeks annual leave that has been introduced into the Public Service, the 17i per cent loading on annual leave, the maternity leave which I understand is 12 weeks a year, and paternity leave which I believe is 1 week, and long service benefits. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MacKellar)Order! The point of order is sustained. I ask the honourable member to confine his remarks to the subject matter of the Bill. 
The point is that these are all charges upon the community of Australia and they will eventually flow on to the private sector which is the only productive sector. Therefore, I would not put that point forward as a great claim to fame. The honourable member for Chifley referred to the fat cats and the thin cats. The House might like to be reminded of the quotation of a former  President  of the Australian Commonwealth Officers Association. He said: 'It is better to be a "fat cat" than a thieving rat'. Of course, we all know to whom the gentleman was referring. Frankly I am not in favour, and perhaps I am the only one in the House who is not in favour, of this process of disposing of these funds. I believe that the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  who spoke earlier in the debate, probably has very much the same views. I thought that with the exception of his attack upon David Jones it was a good speech. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr 
Hurford) as usual quoted the thoughts of everybody else except himself. He referred to the surpluses being transferred to Consolidated Revenue. That can never be done because, as the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  has pointed out, the money and the interest on the money belongs to those who are present and past contributors. 
In my view we should not be proposing the action that we are at this moment. In the first place, I do not think we should be doing anything until the report of Professor Pollard and  Mr Melville  is placed before this House. There have been a series of reports by Treasury committees and sub-committees, but I think that mistakes were made for the first time in the Superannuation Board report of 30 June 1972. I would like to draw attention to this matter because I believe that sometime in the future those of us who are not happy with this method of disposal will be proved to be correct. On page 4, clause 22 of that report, the Superannuation Board states: 
On the assumption- 
I emphasise the word 'assumption'- that the decision by the Government for the introduction of a new scheme would not operate so as to reduce the reported surplus, it seems to the Board, that the most appropriate course of action would be to distribute the surplus, in cash, to eligible pensioners and contributors, on the basis of the amount of $70,015,000 as reported by the Actuary; 
In fact that is what we are talking about today - recommendation is made accordingly. 
The point I wish to make is that the Superannuation Board at that time assumed that the Government at that time would have a particular point of view. I think that this is an assumption that one should never make. I believe it was an undesirable assumption. 
The honourable member for Banks is a very good example; he served in the Commonwealth Public Service for 34 years and when he left he received nothing except his contributions. Now the proposition is to distribute funds, some of which would have come out of his salary. I do not believe that this is the proper course; I believe that the course that has been adopted by the South Australian Government is a much better one. The honourable member for Chifley made a great play about what the Labor Government has done for public servants. I would make the point that the Government in South Australia is a Labor Government. What has happened in South Australia, Tasmania and Queensland is that sur plus superannuation funds, instead of being given back in cash to contributors and pensioners will be and is being used for the benefit of contributors and pensioners in other ways. What concerns me is that what may happen - in fact I am sure will happen - in the future is that contributors will find that their pensions are not high enough and pressure will be put on the then government to increase the Government's contribution. That would mean increasing the contribution of the taxpayers. This is clearly spelt out in the March report of the Treasury committee that investigated superannuation. It comments on the Tasmanian plan. Tasmania also has a Labor Government. Under the heading Financing', clause 3.17 on page 27, the report reads: 
Contribution rates have been designed for the Fund to provide two-sevenths of the benefits, with the other five-sevenths being paid by employers. Pension increases are also financed in this way. However, should contribution rates by employees be insufficient to meet two-sevenths of the benefits, the rate will not be increased but rather the shortfall will be met by the State Government employers. 
I imagine that that is what would happen in the Commonwealth field if there were a shortfall. I think that the scheme in South Australia, which has a Labor Government, is a relatively sound one. I must repeat that South Australia, Queensland and Tasmania do not pay back any surpluses in cash. Instead they are used in another way. For example, the South Australian fund pays to pensioners an annual cost of living bonus calculated at the rate of 3 per cent per annum. That is what I think ought to happen to these funds. That uses up 30 per cent of the South Australian surplus. That is an effort to provide a hedge against inflation, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth).  It would be impossible to accommodate the real inflation rate because the fund is not large enough. This surplus also will be used to reduce the rate of escalation of the contributions of persons still working. The new scheme is to be introduced in South Australia on 1 July. Under it someone, who is at present paying 7 per cent of his salary in contributions, will after July pay 6 per cent. The subsidy will come from the surplus which is being retained and not distributed in cash. 
The points I really wish to make are as follows: Should Commonwealth public servants be treated any differently from anybody else? Should the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund be treated any differently from private funds? Why are private funds not allowed to distribute their surpluses to their members? If that happens, is any taxation payable on the surpluses distributed? If the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  is about the place I would like him to respond to that point. It has been estimated that each member of the Fund will receive an across the board refund of $300. That is an average. Some will receive $100 and others will receive $1,000. I would like to know whether those refunds will be subject to the payment of income tax? I am probably the only one in this House who will strike a discordant note on this matter, but I think it is in the interests of the contributors, the pensioners and the nation to retain the funds and to use them in the way I have described. I think that the distributon of these funds will only add to the rate of inflation. Naturally I will not vote against this measure because my Party is in support of it, but I wish to place on record the concern I feel. 

 Mr HURFORD (Adelaide) - I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who has just resumed his seat. The honourable member made 2 charges against me. One was that in my speech on this Bill I quoted from many sources but did not give my own views. In fact there was one quotation of a few words from the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The second charge was to the effect that I had said that the surplus should be transferred to Consolidated Revenue. We in South Australia know that the honourable member for Boothby does play with the truth.  His  version is the exact opposite of what I said. It is a pity that he cannot understand the English language. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1436 (Hansard, 13 December 1973, page 4794), what sum did each of the Commonwealth Literary Fund holders mentioned in part (5) receive prior to the 1973 grants, and how much will each have received in. total at the conclusion of the present grant. 
Was  Mr Alex  Buzo a Commonwealth Literary Fund holder. 
If so, (a) why was his name excluded, (b) what sum did he receive and (c) how much will he have received in total at the conclusion of the present grant. 
Were any awards made in 1973 to journalists or other employees of the newspapers the 'Australian' and 'Nation Review'. 
If so, (a) who are the recipients, (b) what sum did each receive, (c) are they employed full-time by the newspapers and (d) what works have they produced as authors. 
What are the titles of works produced by Dorothy Green, Les Murray and Donald Stewart. 
Who were the committee members of the Australian Society of Authors at the time the 1973 grants were made. 
Did any of these persons receive a grant. 
How many of the recipients are housewives, and what works have they produced as authors. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
With reference to the Government's decision not to supply Nomad aircraft to Portugal consistent with  its support for the United Nations Resolution 2918 of 14 November 1972, is it a fact that the Government is negotiating a sale of Nomad aircraft to the People's Republic of China. 
If so, is this a breach of the same United Nations resolution, having regard to the report of an International Commission of Jurists on genocide and other crimes perpetrated by the Chinese since the occupation of Tibet. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What is the total cost of the survey on the National Anthem being conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
What is the appropriation separately for the advertisements on radio, television and in the- press. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Government made any decision on the Treasury Committee's report on superannuation submitted in March 1973. 
Has the Australian Government Acutary been requested to submit a report on the design and cost of the plan; if so, when will the Government release the report. 
Are the proposals based on a plan originated by E. S. Knight  &amp; Co. 
If so, has the attention of the Government been drawn to the decision of the special committee established by the South Australian Government to investigate similar proposals. 
Has the attention of the Government also been drawn to the views of the Public Service Association and other employee organisations in South Australia on these proposals. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When will the intensive care benefit payable to patients in nursing homes be increased. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What amount in book bounty was paid to South Australian publishers during 1972-73. 
What are the names of the recipient publishing companies. 
How much did each publisher receive. 
What are the titles of the books in respect of which each publisher received bounty. 
DrJ. F. Cairns- The Minister for Customs and Excise has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Bounty is paid to printers and not to publishers. The amount paid in South Australia during 1972-73 was $581,837.93. 
and (3) Names of recipient printers and the payments each received are set out in the Book Bounty Act Return for 1972-73 which was presented to the Parliament on 28 August 1973 as Parliamentary Paper No. 140. Copies of the Paper are available in the Parliamentary Library. 
A record is not kept of the titles of books on which bounty is paid. Eight hundred and ninety-two (892) separate titles were involved in South Australia in 1972-73. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the answer to question No. 1004 (Hansard, 10 October 1973, pages 1922-3), is it simplistic to describe Tanzania as a single party State. 
If it is simplistic, as suggested in the answer, what is a proper description of Tanzania's Parliamentary system. 
What political parties exist in Tanzania other than the Tanganyika African National Union and the Afro Shirazi Party. 
' Which party could be described as Government and which as non-Government. 
Which party could be described as socialist and which as non-socialist. 
Is racial,  religious or ethnic discrimination practised in Tanzania; if so, what are the details. 
If not, (a) were thousands of Arabs and Asians massacred or deported from Zanzibar in 1964, (b) were approximately 500 Asians deported from Tanzania in 1967, (c) were approximately 1,500 Asians deported from Tanzania in 1970-71, (d) does the  President  have power to nationalise any industry or acquire any property he chooses; if so, has he exercised this power; if not, who authorised the nationalisation of industry over the years 1971-73 and (e) which Tanzanian politician has proclaimed the philosophy that nationalisation is a vital ingredient of full sovereignty. 
The Opposition believes that it has the universal support of the Australian people in proposing this matter of public importance. Since Labor was elected in 1972, and more especially since the beginning of this year, home seekers and the housing industry generally have come under direct attack as a result of this Government's policies. 
The Minister for Housing and" Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  at the inaugural meeting of his Advisory Council held in Canberra in April, stated: 
The supply of housing is stretched to its limit. To attempt to produce more will only inflate its price even further. 
The Minister's policies have certainly succeeded in halting the supply of housing. Production is not even being maintained at the 
May level, and by December will be almost at a standstill. Good builders are going into liquidation every week. and, no matter what the Minister says to the contrary, unemployment in the building industry is now quite significant. 
As recently as 4 July the Minister was given up to date statistics at a meeting in Sydney with representatives of some of Australia's largest project builders. He was warned at that meeting that unless there is an early and significant easing of the Government's credit squeeze the housing industry is about to collapse. He was supplied with precise details of the number of living units of all types completed and projected by this group of 23 builders which included such large builders as the L. J. Hooker Corp., Lend Lease, Parkes and Pettit &amp; Sevitt. For the January-June period only 2,135 living units had been completed, and for the current 6-month period the projection of the combined resources of the group is only 1,169 houses or units. 
The Minister was also told of the retrenchment of over 40 building trade apprentices in New South Wales alone - he may call this a re-structuring movement within the industry or something of this sort; we call it unemployment - which is a clear sign that the Government's policies have gone too far and are inflicting permanent damage. For every apprentice dismissed there must be at least two tradesmen put off. If the Government waits for the official statistics to be compiled and released, 3 months from now, it will then be too late to save this important industry. It needs action now. The only action the Minister proposes is to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the cost of housing, which is simply an inquiry into the cost of his own failures. There is no need for an inquiry into the self evident fact that his administration has been a period of disaster for the building industry. 
Young people and those on low to medium incomes without a home have virtually no hope of building or buying a house or unit while the Government pursues its present policies. Home building costs have risen dramatically in the last 12 months - nearly 40 per cent in South Australia, Victoria and Queensland, and nearly 50 per cent in Western Australia, and over 50 Der cent in the Northern Territory. On a weekly basis this represents an average increase of $125 a week, and builders are no longer able to control the cost structure of their product. 
Not only are the Government's policies causing severe damage to the industry; they are also grossly inflating the price of housing and eating into the accommodation available to low income and needy families. So much for the Minister's predictions to that AdvisoryCouncil meeting. Compared with May 1973, the May 1974 statistics show a continuing 20 per cent decline in building approvals - the number of approvals in the public sector was down 28 per cent - and yet the total value for this reduced number of dwelling has actually risen by S35m for the month. The Opposition believes that the Government's policies of tighter and dearer finance and greatly increased costs and prices will certainly reduce the demand for housing pressures on resources. However it will also permanently debar a large section of the community from ever owning a home or even securing a reasonable standard of accommodation, which we believe is every Australian's legitimate aspiration. 
The only worthwhile part of the Government's so-called housing policy is the proposal for re-scheduling of loan payments which was a policy produced by the Opposition parties earlier this year and adopted or stolen by the Government. The Government's commitment to abolish the Liberal-Country Party home savings grants scheme will adversely affect thousands of young and not so young home buyers. When elected to Government we shall re-introduce this scheme and improve it to include single people. We shall also lift the limit on the present value of eligible homes and abolish all age restrictions. We shall also establish a Housing Guidance Bureau to inform home seekers on housing and housing finance. In contrast to the Government's policies the thrust of our housing policy is designed to help those who need it most - young couples and single people seeking their first home and new home owners in the first years of paying off their loans when the financial burdens are heaviest on the family budget. 
The main proposal in the Government's housing policy is its interest deductibility scheme, which question was ducked by the Minister at question time. 
The scheme is in our view highly discriminatory. It will not benefit those without homes, nor those who have paid off the early part of their mortgage, nor those near the end of their payments. 
It will not benefit people renting flats or houses. It will discriminate against families with children as compared with those without children. The Government has stated that its scheme will cost SI 20m a year. Yet on 30 April the Minister said that one million home owners would benefit by S250 a year. Does he remember making that statement? In other words, it would cost S250m a year. In one breath he has more than doubled the costing of the Government's interest subsidy scheme. At a time of high inflation the Government plans to pump an extra S250m into an already overheated economy. All it will do is selectively return some of the extra cost of Labor's high interest rates on home mortgages. On 30 June this year at Surfers Paradise the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced: 
The flow of finance to building has been reduced and the price of costly houses has tended to drop. 
He did not define a costly house and did not even refer to what is happening to the noncostly houses or to the rental market. This is supposed to be. a Labor Government. What does it matter to the traditional Labor supporter if a S90.000 house drops to 880,000? He is not looking for a mansion. He is looking for help from a Government he was misguided enough to believe would assist him to own his own home. What is the position now? If he does not own a home his chances of ever owning one are receding every day. If he is paying off his home the mortgage repayments are rising rapidly and the day when he will have paid off the loan is disappearing towards infinity. That is not a housing policy. It is a design for despair for young tenants and a sure prescription for social division between the housing haves, the housing have-nots and the housing never-will-haves 
Investors are reluctant to build more rental accommodation because of the absurdly high interest rates and the constant threat of Government control over rents. The Government's policies towards young people and would-be home buyers have now significantly increased the demand from these would-be home buyers for rental accommodation. This in turn is forcing up rent levels and further reducing the capacity of such people to save. The statements of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  are frequently even more difficult to follow than those of the Minister for Housing and Construction. For months the Treasurer has disclaimed that there has been a credit squeeze at all. In a statement released on 28 April 1974 he made the classic statement of all time. It was to this effect: 
The flow of housing finance was continuing at a satisfactory level and there was no reason to doubt that that would continue to be so. Similarly, the rate of new lending by the  tranding  banks continued high ... he personally was keeping a close watch on the situation generally and that of home buyers and small businesses in particular. 
By the end of June, it seems, the Treasurer finally discovered that there was a credit squeeze and he actually acknowledged it during a speech to the Australian Finance Conference in Sydney. He said that he thought it may go on for a year or so, which is cold comfort for the home buyers and small businesses he sought to reassure in April. As a result of Government action the permanent building societies have been forced to increase their lending rates 3 times in less than a year, from 8 per cent in July 1973 to  11$  per cent in June 1974. These rates are really hurting those in the middle income group with housing mortgage obligations. It is even worse for those without a home because the Government's policies make it virtually impossible for them to obtain mortgage finance and increased rentals prevent them from saving for a deposit. 
The financial position of the middle income earner is deteriorating daily and no doubt all members are receiving representations from desperately worried young couples, as I am. I quote the case of a constituent earning $95 a week this time last year and supporting a wife and 2 children. This year his salary is $118, but his tax has increased from $9.60 to $14.45 a week.  His  salary has increased by 24 per cent and his income tax has risen by 50 per cent. Last month he may have been two or three dollars in front, but in the meantime the prices of food, clothing, etc. have risen. State taxes have been imposed on gas, hospitalisation, water and other items, as well as the recent savage increases in Commonwealth taxes on other ranges of goods and services he cannot do without. But the final blow for this  Mr Average  Man is the pressure put on him by this Government in increased interest charges. Assuming that he bought an average priced home through a building society this time last year for $17,000, he would have needed a deposit of $2,000 with the balance at 171 per cent over 30 years.  His  repayments, including principal, interest and all charges, were $26 a week. Today they are $36 a week and if he ever pays it off he will have paid $13,000 more in interest than he expected on the original loan. 
Every time the interest rate on housing goes up by 1 per cent it costs home buyers an extra $100m dollars a year in repayments. It would be even worse if a person were buying this same house today.  His  $17,000 house last year is worth approximately $25,000 today. The minimum deposit today is $5,000 and the weekly payments $47. By the end of his 30- year loan term he will have paid $47,000 in interest. This is just not on - $47 a week is half his take-home pay and in any case building societies will only lend according to the applicant's ability to pay. This is not a policy for housing. It is a recipe for renting. It is a life sentence of tenancy for young Australian couples on the average wage - the very people Labor falsely claims to represent. 
Today the building societies require a 20 per cent deposit and a maximum repayment figure of 2.3 times annual salary. This limits the average income earner to a mortgage of approximately $13,000 for a house at $16,000. For the Minister's information, there are just none around at that price. Even young people and others on higher incomes can no longer look forward to home ownership. The Government's own agency, the Commonwealth Savings Bank, is the front runner in creating impossible conditions, and the Government deserves the strongest criticism for condoning it. The requirement to borrow from the Commonwealth Savings Bank on a $12,500 home mortgage is that the applicant must have saved at least $2,500 in a one-year period, that is, $48 a week. To borrow $15,000 he must have saved $5,000 in a one-year period - that is $96 a week - and as he must find most, if not all of the balance in cash it is simply impossible for all but the wealthy to achieve a Commonwealth Bank loan. The Commonwealth Savings Bank compares most unfavourably with the private banks in its assistance to home buyers. According to the April statistics, the average of assets of the private banks in housing loans was 34.5 per cent and the figure for the Commonwealth Bank was only 26.5 per cent. So much for the people's bank. The Government is souping money out to interest groups and individuals to minimise public scrutiny of its actions, as the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  mentioned a moment ago. Thousands of individuals all over Australia are making sacrifices, such as pensioners who never received their promised 25 per cent average weekly wage pension and home builders and home buyers who will be forced to settle for less than adequate accommodation. With the housing industry on its knees and interest rates on bridging finance at 24 per cent, the Opposition alleges that only the speculators and others who harvest inflation are better off under Labor. We condemn the Government for its inaction, its incompetence and its callous indifference to the housing deficiencies now patently obvious to the whole Australian community. 
In the moment left to me I say to the Minister for Housing and Construction: 'When you reply, please do not blame the States. They are not responsible for the problems which beset us today'. There can be very few places where the position is worse than here in the Australian Capital Territory. The figures I have are as at June and show that there was a 700 housing unit short-fall in the Australian Capital Territory. Here the Government has absolute powers. Will the Minister please answer the question asked by my Leader  (Mr Snedden)?  Will he not beat around the bush and not answer as the Treasurer did the other day when he was asked a similar question on the economy? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I be the first to congratulate you on achieving your high office. I trust that it will not be long before we see you sitting in the chair as  Speaker  of this House. I should like to say to the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  at the outset that I mildly object, on behalf of the Opposition, to the fact that we were not given any information about his statement. 
The position, so far as I am concerned, is that even at this moment I have not seen a copy of the statement which was read by the Minister. In fairness to him, I must say that I received great co-operation from his staff. I had to get in touch with his staff last Friday and 1 obtained very sketch, details of this proposal. I think that, as is the custom in this place, I should have been supplied with a copy of the statement which the Minister has just read. 
The Opposition understands the Government's dilemma in this matter. The Opposition will not oppose the motion. However, we believe that this is an attempt by the Government to avoid public scrutiny of its economic mismanagement. These tactics are consistent with the behaviour of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and other Ministers in attempting to avoid any worthwhile debate on the state of the economy. Anyone who listened to question time in this House both last week and today could have only the same view. On each occasion the Ministers have ducked any questions relating to the economy and have given no worthwhile answers. We believe that Australia is facing an absolutely explosive inflationary situation and serious unemployment in several major industries. The building industry certainly will be one of the industries affected. Because most official statistics are always 3 months behind, the Minister refuses to acknowledge the possible collapse of the home building industry. 
The purpose of the Glebe Lands (Appropriation) Bill 1974 is to appropriate S15.75m for the purchase of lands at Glebe in Sydney, New South Wales. This extra appropriation will mean that the total price paid for this land is $ 17.5m. The land is presently owned by the Glebe Administration Board of the Church of England. The opportunity to purchase the land came about in April 1973 when the Church of England suggested in its submission to the poverty inquiry that it would be willing to sell the property to a public authority. Public acquisition of the property and rehabilitation of a large number of dwellings present a viable method of providing housing in the inner city for low income earners and aged people. The Opposition supports the Bill but we have very serious reservations in relation to it. We would not go about acquiring the land in this way. We believe that the method adopted represents competition rather than co-operation with the State of New South Wales. 
I would like to mention two or three things covered in the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  Actually, I have really just quoted directly from the Minister's speech. The Minister deals with the main objectives of the Bill, and we agree with most of those objectives. It is like motherhood; who could oppose it? However, I would like to refer in particular to the second objective as stated by the Minister. It is, to use the words of the Minister, 'to retain the opportunity for low income earners and families and aged people to live close to the city as part of a wider community.' I think the key word there is 'retain' because the position is that this Bill will do nothing about increasing the number of people who live on that property. Not one single extra family or living unit will move to this property as a result of this Bill being passed and this development proceeding. To that extent we believe that the Bill could be improved. 
The Minister then refers in his second reading speech to things that we already know. We all feel sorry about the number of houses that have been removed to make way for offices and commercial premises, as well as for freeways. We all know about the houses that have been knocked over in order to make way for public institutions and we all understand that many low income earners have often been displaced and have had to move to outlying areas. These are all things that we understand. We believe that what the Minister and his Government are doing will not alleviate this situation, but that the problem can be solved, or at least alleviated, only by making better use of the land that is available, and this is our complaint about this Bill. We do not think that the Government is making the best use of the land that is available. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in fact has made this very point on another occasion, namely, that you cannot make more land. You have to make the best use of the land that is available. Honourable members opposite keep trotting out the remark about 23 years. It is really like an old long-playing record that is worn out. 
The Minister refers to the fourth principle. That is a luxury. I do not know whether we can afford universally to preserve the townscape and sympathetically rehabiliate it. We want some of that. We want redevelopment too. We cannot have total rehabilitation. I do not want to be. too harsh with the Minister, but his second reading speech was really an exercise in pious semantics. 
The only other reference I want to make is to the second reading speech in which the Minister said: 
The purchase of these estates offers this Government 
He means the Federal Government-  the State Government and the local Council  the  opportunity to co-operate in the rehabilitation of  a  unique area. 
I suspect that in fact there is really no cooperation, that the Government has circumvented the State Government and with it the local authority. I would like to know - perhaps when the Minister replies he can tell us - the view of the New South Wales Government and of the Housing Commission on this redevelopment: I think that we would all be interested to hear his answer. 
Before the suspension of the sitting the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  referred to the consultants' report. He said that on a certain date in April - I think it was 9 April - the report was tabled in this Parliament and that several hundred copies were made available. I would like to make it clear that that report was simply not available - not in the Bills and Papers Office and not even in the Parliamentary Library. The only references I have are photostat copies of two or three pages because I was able to borrow from the Library a copy which was being used by another honourable member. This is relatively irrelevant, but the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  was the only one, so far as I can discover, in the whole Parliament who had a copy of the report. 
I accept that but I think I should make it clear that copies were not available to us, as the Minister for Housing and Construction said they were. On the back page of the report by the consultants the assistance of certain organisations which helped them prepare the report is acknowledged. One was the Leichhardt Municipal Council. I ask the Minister and perhaps the Leichhardt Municipal Council whether the Council realises that once the Commonwealth owns this land the Council will no longer receive any rates and that other ratepayers in the municipality will have to make up the difference. After all, the people living on the Glebe lands will still want their garbage collected; they will still want lighting, footpaths, roads and other services supplied by local government. Will the Minister tell us what is happening about the Council rates? Will the Government be making an ex gratia payment in lieu of rates? This is what my Leader was referring to. The Opposition has not had anything like the proper information required to deal with this sort of Bill. 
One of the interesting statements made by the consultants was that the State Planning Authority of New South Wales and the New South Wales Housing Commission helped to prepare the report. When the Minister replies I would like him to tell us what the submissions from the New South Wales Housing Commission was because I do not believe that the New South Wales Housing Commission would support this proposal in its present form. I would like the Minister to tell us whether he has sought a constitutional opinion - whether the way in which this land is being appropriated is in fact within the Constitution of the Commonwealth. 
The planners also made recommendations on who they thought should be the authorities to administer the Glebe lands. They suggested the Leichhardt Council - I think that is a reasonable suggestion - or the New South Wales Housing Commission or the State Planning Authority. But the third recommendation they made for consideration is that a development corporation should be set up. I do not know whether that is in the Government's mind - I do not think that it is - but if it is we would not be pleased about having another corporation set up in this country. As it is, over 100 of them have been set up since this Government was elected. We do not want to see any more corporations and trusts set up, very often to provide jobs for the boys. 
We suggest that the Minister consider perhaps a co-operative arrangement. Is there anything wrong with that sort of suggestion? It happens to be part of the Liberal and Country parties' housing policy but that need not be any inhibition on the Minister's using it because, after all, the Government has used our policy for the rescheduling of loan repayments, which is the only part of the Government's housing policy which we think is worthwhile. 
Perhaps I could explain our parties' attitude to this sort of development. We believe that those who make the decisions affecting urban development and rehabilitation should be the people close to those affected by these decisions. We believe that State and local authorities should make the decisions, not a government or a ministry remote in Canberra. We believe that the role of the Federal Government is primarily to provide funds and assistance to the States for the purpose of housing, land and other things so that they may control and develop imaginative housing programs. The Liberal and Country parties believe that the States are best equipped, through their housing commissions and other authorities, to obtain the best value in the purchase of land and in the construction of housing. Machinery already exists in the States for the effective, administration of accommodation for the less fortunate, the less well off and the aged. That applies both to rental and home ownership. The Liberal and Country parties believe that it should be a major national objective to encourage all people who wish to do so to own their own homes, and that alternative means to redevelop the Glebe lands should be examined to include medium density cluster housing and other forms of low cost housing. 
These lands at Glebe occupy approximately 45 acres. Apparently the number of dwellings at the moment is 710. Unless my arithmetic is wrong, the acquisition cost per acre is $372,350. Just a couple of days ago in this chamber we heard the Minister for Housing and Construction criticise the Victorian Government for acquiring land close to Melbourne for housing redevelopment at $10,000 an acre. This Government is paying $372,000, and cost per living unit is $24,600. 
I did not pick up exactly the Minister's interjection but I am sure that Hansard did. The important point I am making is that this Government has criticised other governments for paying very much less than this for development, yet the acquisition cost per living unit is over $24,500, to which must be added the rehabilitation costs of at least $8,000 a unit. That means that at Glebe the cost per unit will be at least $33,000 and not a single additional person will be housed. The Opposition believes that in any comprehensive plan for inner Sydney renewal or renewal of inner areas of any other city there must be a capacity for both rehabilitation and redevelopment. In Glebe, while retention of the area in its existing form retains the status quo, so far as the number of dwellings is concerned it does not achieve any significant addition to the housing stock or make any provision for the increased demand which the projected population increase will bring. I repeat, it will not provide one extra living unit, which was supposed to be the linchpin of all the policies of urban redevelopment expounded by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  before the recent election. I would like to make a comparison, in reply to the gist of what I think the Minister said in his interjection, between this project and what has happened in other States. In Glebe there are 700 living units on 45 acres. This works out at about 15 units to the acre at a cost of $33,000 each. Some will argue that these units are still old houses - more than 100 years old - and at some time in the future will still have to be knocked over and replaced. 
In Victoria there is a development known as Warribar. In this development the area was bought and the houses erected by private enterprise. There are 78 living units on 5 acres. These are not just units or town houses but are houses, and they have achieved the same density as the Glebe project - about 15 to the acre. The cost of these living units, for the Minister's information, was in April last year $15,750 each, that is, less than half the cost of each proposed unit at Glebe. 
While the Opposition does not actively oppose the legislation we make the point that the Government could do very much better with the Glebe development and could build more than 2,000 living units on that area of land at a very much lower pirce - less than half. It may be of some interest to the Minister to hear of what could be done at Glebe; I refer to what has been done at Warribar Village at Cheltenham in Victoria. I have already mentioned the number of living units. Each of these units includes pre-installed outlets for telephone and television antenna connections, wall-to-wall carpeting and vinyl flooring, insect screens, 2 electric space heaters with thermostatic controls, a 60-gallon hot water unit, wall tiling in the kitchen and bathroom, doublebowl sinks, an exhaust fan, separate toilet, a laundry with taps for washing machines and a clothes hoist. Some of the houses have double carports and lock-up garage doors which are virtually the only optional extras that buyers have to buy at Warribar. 
I think that the Government should have another look at the way it proposes to develop this area at Glebe. The Opposition believes that the State housing authorities are best fitted to administer the construction and management of domestic dwellings for elderly and needy people. We believe that the New South Wales Housing Commission should be involved. It is now building units for $19,000 all up, including the land. According to Housing Commission practice, the Glebe lands could be developed to accommodate three times the number now living on the estates and still provide community halls and other recreational facilities. The Opposition believes that this is what we should be doing and at the same time providing some units for rental and some for rental purchase. The Opposition supports the legislation because we recognise the urgent need for urban redevelopment. We do not think the Government is going about it in the correct way, and we are sure it is not the best way, but it is better than nothing and for this reason we do not oppose it. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Mathews)  adjourned. 
I certainly will not delay the House for more than a few moments. The view of the Opposition has been stated by the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  and there is no point in reiterating it. 1 wish to place on record that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is at the table, and I have had a discussion about one other aspect of public works that has occurred to us on this side during the course of the day, namely that the type of work that we have been talking about in this debate should in some way be referred to the Public Works Committee after the project has been completed and, therefore, all costs are known, so that the Public Works Committee can keep a record of those costs. Perhaps, when the Committee makes its annual report to the Parliament, those completion costs could be included as an appendix to that report so that the Parliament would then have a record of the work that was done and the cost in the context of the considerations applied by the Public Works Committee. The Special Minister of State has indicated that he agrees that this is a worthwhile suggestion. We do not wish to move any amendment to that effect. We will be satisfied if such a provision can be incorporated in the Bill in sub-clause form when it goes before the Senate. I wish to say nothing further except that I believe that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  has a document that he wishes to table which, in a way, has a similar effect. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to the consumer price index figures released last Friday which indicate that the housing price group was up 7.7 per cent for the quarter ended 30 June? Does this confirm the accuracy of the view expressed from this side of the House that the building costs of a modest dwelling of, say, $20,000 is escalating at almost $120 a week? If not, what is the Minister's estimate of the present weekly escalation rate? 
 Mr Speaker,  1 wish to make a personal explanation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for  Customs  and Excise, upon notice: 
When will the Return for 1972-73 under the Book Bounty Act be presented to Parliament 
Will the Minister provide Parliament with a record of the titles on which bounty is paid. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many names were removed from the waiting list for Government houses during 1 973-74. 
What were the reasons for their removal, and how many were there in each of these categories. 
By how much have you chopped that back? 
-The Opposition supports the motion. However, I trunk I should at least say something about some of the remarks of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson).  He commenced his remarks, I think, by congratulating the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  saying that this is not the place and the time for making political speeches. I do not know of any place where one should make a political speech more than in this place. After all, this is what we are here for. But in his very next breath the honourable member for Burke attacked my colleague, the honourable member for the Northern Territory, by saying that he had been in the Northern Territory himself on more occasions than had the honourable member for the Northern Territory. In fact, the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  who is at the table said that he thinks that even he has been in the Northern Territory more than the honourable member for the Northern Territory. They are all snide remarks that ought to be exposed and refuted. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory said that he supported strongly the motion before the Chair; he said that there is a need for the hospital, as I recollect his remarks. He also said that there is a need for some accommodation up there to house the people who are associated with the hospital. So I think it is important to join issue with the Government at least on that point and also to make the point that we have no intention of injecting politics into the debate; we did so on the last occasion. The honourable member for Burke mentioned building costs. If he has a look at the transcript of evidence taken by the Committee of which he is a member - 
I read the transcript. If the honourable member says that he heard the evidence he must have dropped off to sleep half way through it, because senior officials from the Department of Housing and Construction made statements which indicate that the escalation in building costs in the Northern Territory ranges up to 60 per cent. In the previous debate I asked the Minister at the table whether he would be prepared to have portion of the Committee's transcript incorporated in Hansard but he would not give us permission to do that. Three schools were the subject of the previous debate. I have forgotten where they were to be constructed, but 3 schools were involved, the estimated cost of which was just over $lm. The estimated tender price has risen in 12 months to more than $2m. It was that escalation which made it necessary for the Minister to bring the matter before the House. The Minister may remember that debate which took place only two or three months ago. It will be found from the transcript of evidence that building costs are escalating at this rate in the Northern Territory. 
I would like to start again. I would make this point: Every time there is to be a debate on public works matters in this place we will turn it into a political debate if that is what the Government wants. On this occasion we have not. We said that we would come in and support the motion and get it through. Following thenusual pattern here, Government supporters took every opportunity to discredit the honourable member for the Northern Territory. In my view, and in the view of most people in the Northern Territory, he truly represents that Territory and does it well. So in spite of all these remarks, the Opposition strongly supports the motion. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
What is the proportion of Government to private housing development in the new district of Tuggeranong. 
What efforts have been made to ensure a diversification of construction. 
-The Sewerage Agreements Bill 1974, according to the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  is designed to provide extra funds for sewerage backlog programs in Victoria, Queensland and Western Australia. At the outset I would like to say that a word has been left out there. The speech should have read that the Bill is designed to provide extra loan funds, because there is no way in the world that anyone could ever consider that these moneys are by way of grant. The States are to be assisted in a sense, I suppose we could say, by supplementary legislation to the legislation passed last year. The assistance is to be in relatively small amounts. Victoria is to be assisted by the  provision of $3.95m,  Queensland by $lm- I wonder whether the Minister in his reply might tell us why Queensland's application for $2m has been reduced to $lm, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)-  and Western Australia by $3m. 
The Opposition does not oppose the legislation although we express quite serious concern about some aspects of it and some aspects of its philosophy. At the outset I would like to ask for leave of the House to incorporate in Hansard one of the agreements set out in the Bill. If the Minister will pay some attention, I would point out that I am in no way seeking to take a rise out of anybody. I simply want to have one of these agreements incorporated in Hansard, and I would prefer it to be the one dealing with the Queensland Government. I formally seek leave to do that. 
I realise that. I do not think the Minister graduated from his courtesy course with first class honours, anyway. We will have to get by without having the agreement incorporated. Therefore I commence by asking the Minister a few questions. Firstly, why has there been such a delay between the time that the legislation was canvassed, which I guess would have been back in February or March, and the present time, which is the end of September? This matter appeared on the notice paper during the last sitting of the Parliament in July and should easily have been disposed of by now. What we are concerned about is what appears to be a total lack of consultation with the States and certainly a total lack of consideration for the States. How does the Government expect the States to proceed? Here we have an agreement which we are not allowed to see in Hansard which states that the work must commence by 1 July. It is now 24 September and the agreement has not even been passed because it has to be ratified by this Parliament 
So my first question of the Minister concerns the delay and the lack of consideration for the State governments. How does the Federal Government expect the States to proceed when no agreement has been ratified? What happens, for example, in relation to contractors and people digging trenches? Should the State governments dismiss them? Should they dismiss people on wages or should they look for some sort of temporary finance. I think that is our first concern. Also, it is no good the Government saying that it does not wish to direct the States as to the way in which they shall spend the money. In fact, I was very interested but not impressed to listen to the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  who said- I think I quote him fairlyafter talking about the 23 years of conservative government and how little we did - 
-I Will deal with that in a moment. I think the honourable member should sit in his correct place if he is going to help me to make my speech. He said that taxes gathered in State capitals and regions will now be spent in these areas. That is what the honourable member for Casey said in bis contribution to the debate, and I think that is part of the philosophy that goes right through aU of these negotiations. 
This is really becoming something of a habit now. I have not been here aU that long, but the chamber being left without one Minister in charge and a very insignificant backbencher sitting at the table is something that I never saw until the Labor Government came to office. What would happen if I stood on my head or did a Highland fling or something equally dramatic? Who would take care of the proceedings in the House? It is quite improper that there should be no Minister at the table. This is the second time it has happened today. 
I take up that point. The House was cleared by the honourable member for Casey who preceded me in the debate. There are more honourable members here now than before, for which I am grateful. The philosophy of the Federal Government as it is now is to take over all of the powers, or most of them, of the States. That is what the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews)  is really saying, that for 23 years the State governments have been running their own business and now the Federal Labor Party is in government it will move in and take over those responsibilities and decide where the money will be spent. That is a very strong warning to the people who live in the smaller States. God help them if the federal system collapses. 
I will deal with that in a moment. 
The point is that in this agreement there is evidence- and that is why I wanted the Queensland agreement included in Hansardthat even in this area of sewerage the present Federal Government has taken away the priorities from the Queensland Government and the other governments relating to where they will spend the money on sewerage. In the agreement it states that the money will be spent in Brisbane and the Gold Coast. I am not necessarily being critical of where the money is spent, but it is not the Queensland Government that is deciding where it is spent, it is this Government. 
Discussions! I take up that interjection too, because that in fact is not so. I have spoken to a member of one of the State governments as recently as yesterday, and there has not been a single discussion about the amounts allocated in the Budget, which we will be debating this week. There was very little discussion in respect of this and the previous agreement. This Government is heU-bent on taking away from the States their right to decide where sewerage money will be spent. What the Government is really saying to the people who live in the States is that it will decide which of those people will have sewerage and which of them will not. That is the antithesis of what we believe in. I see we do have a Minister back at the table, and I am very grateful. 
The second point about which the Opposition is concerned is that arrogant, really almost insulting, way that the Government has treated the States. I mention this because it was brought up by the honourable member for Casey. In his second reading speech, referring on this occasion to Melbourne's problems with stormwater drainage, the Minister said that most metropolitan streams in Australia record levels of E. COl which are completely unacceptable to this Government Unfortunately the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is not here, but perhaps the Minister for the Capital Territory could ask him: Do you think that your Government is the only government that is concerned about pollution levels? 
Do you have some monopoly of concern, and no other governments are concerned? This is what you are saying. 
I would prefer to do that; it is a much more acceptable procedure. In our view, this is unnecessarily insulting to other governments and it is also insulting to the next Federal Government, which I have no doubt will come from this side of the House. It is also insulting to the Lord Mayor and members of the Brisbane City Council. That Council has been in office, Labor dominated, since the year dot. So it is not very smart to think that the Government is rubbishing only Liberal and Country Party governments. This sort of remark also rubbishes the Labor governments, one in Tasmania, one in South Australia and, in effect, the Brisbane City Council. 
Before I leave the Minister's second reading speech- and there is not very much in it to which I want to refer- there is one quite serious inaccuracy at the point where he was talking about the national sewerage program- giving expression to the Government's own private concern, of course- providing that all new land subdivisions should be given adequate sewerage treatment facilities. To bring the Minister up to date, in Victoria at any rate the developers are responsible for all headworks in all new subdivisions and, as I understand it, have been so responsible since last December. 
-Unfortunately the Minister wishes now to give me a lecture on sematics, for which I have not got time. 
I have done my homework. 
You had better go back to Victoria and have a look. 
We should have a look now at how much these State governments have doneand this is not over the last 23 years- because most of what the Minister has done and certainly all that the member for Casey has done has been to denigrate past State governments, not past Federal governments. We recognise the difference between Commonwealth and State constitutional responsibilities and honourable members opposite do not. I want to place on record how much the New South Wales Government, for example, has done, and I will quote from the annual report of the Metropolitan Water Sewerage and Drainage Board for the year ended 30 June 1973. The figure for capital works in New South Wales alone is $569m. This Government, in the Bill we are talking about now, as well as the amount that is appropriated in the Budget, has decided there will be only $ 132m for the whole lot. In Queensland this year they are spending $50m and I think it is proper for some of us to defend the State governments and their authorities. To quote briefly from the report of the Sydney authority, the declared area of operations totals some 4,000 square miles. It includes not only the whole of the metropolitan area of Sydney but also a number of outlying cities, municipalities and shires, as well as the South Coast areas embraced by the city of Wollongong and the municipalities of Shellharbour and Kiama. The Board's 19 separate sewerage systems include over 7,000 miles of sewers. No one can say that it has not done some work since it has been in office. I draw the attention of the House to the amount which the New South Wales State Government will be spending on sewerage works this year, financed from its own resources. This is indicated on page 1 of the report as being $86m. The report makes the point that 5 years ago the annual expenditure was only $26m. If honourable members read through the report they will see that attention is also drawn to the fact that the New South Wales Government is spending as much this year as it did last year and is actually getting much less work for it, because of inflation. I think we can say that inflation is at least Government induced. There is no time to go through the report of the Melbourne and Metropolitan Board of Works, but I would point out that at the end of April this year there were 155,000 unsewered houses and vacant lots in the metropolitan area in Melbourne. At the present rate of progress it will take 15 years to catch up on the backlog, even if not one other dwelling is connected. The area serviced by the Board in Melbourne covers 187,500 hectares and some 600,000 homes. In this financial year it will have spent $60m from its own resources. Probably the most significant aspect of the report appears on page 1 9. The report says: 
And the Board is forced into the position of being a big borrower. A measure of the money it must raise can be gauged from the fact that in the 1973-74 financial year its capital works expenditure exceeded $1 14m, an increase of some $28m over the previous year. 
This is the important point, and I trust the Minister will respond. The report continues: 
In spite of this increase, the rate of inflation means that the Board is, in fact, now paying more money for no more work than it carried out in 1972-73, a prime example of how inflation eats into the value of available funds. 
So, no matter what pious thoughts the honourable member for Casey and other honourable members on the other side of the House have, the sewerage problem will become greater until the Government reduces the rate of inflation and puts some value back into the dollar. In its report the Victorian authority makes the point also that it will require $ 1,000m to catch up the backlog The Minister made the same point in answering a question asked of him by one of my colleagues oh 18 September, except that he said that $ 1,000m would be required for all the urban areas. I believe that that is a quite serious miscalculation. Talking of broken promises, which is something to which we are becoming conditioned in this country, I would like to make reference also to the pre-election speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  There is a serious broken promise in it in respect of sewerage. The Prime Minister said: 
A Labor Government will immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth grants in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically . . . 
There is no doubt that in the minds of the Australian people- I think this point was made by one of my colleagues- the Prime Minister was holding out to them the promise that a Labor Government would actually make grants available to the States free of interest to assist them to overcome the backlog. We all know from the Bill currently before us that the States will in fact be paying the long term bond rate and that this will mean an increase in the State debt. The money has cost the Commonwealth virtually nothing but it is lending it back to the States at the long term bond rate. In doing so it is increasing the State debts. I think that the State debt in Victoria is 58c in every dollar. That is the interest Victoria has to pay back before it spends any money. I could be quoting from the Minister's second reading speech in saying that, but that is a fact anyway. It means that more than half of every dollar raised goes back to the Federal Government by way of interest. That represents a high cost to the consumer. I would like to have had the time to quote what is said in certain reports about the increased cost to the consumers, who are the ratepayers. If rates are increased sharply it adds to inflation and everybody is penalised. The penalty imposed- I object very much to the expression used to describe them- upon the person who receives unearned income is particularly harsh. Such a person, who probably cost the country nothing during his working life, because he was thrifty during his working life and invested a few dollars has to pay an extra tax on top of his income. 
Yes, thrift is a dirty word. 
Profit has always been a dirty word with this socialist party, but to impose a penalty on thrift is in my view completely unforgiveable and is something for which the Government has no mandate. The Government talks about having a mandate. We believe that the Government should advance the money interestfree or at least advance it at a very low rate of interest, as is done in Queensland. Being a Queenslander you would know,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that the State Government in Queensland advances 40 per cent of the capital expenditure to the local councils and that they raise the rest by way of loan. I noticed today that in reply to a well prepared Dorothy Dix question the Minister for Urban and Regional Development indicated that something along those lines would be the formula for the grants which will be coming up for debate in the next few weeks. We of the Opposition will applaud anything which will reduce the State debt. We make the point that sewerage is not a business undertaking and that it can be treated almost in isolation. It is not like the provision of electricity and gas. There is no sale of the end product. 
If the honourable member for Robertson had been in the chamber earlier and had listened to what was said he would know what the Opposition's views are about the subject. We take the view that the Government is substituting itself as a lending authority. It misrepresents itself as being a great benefactor. It has won a lot of votes for itself in this way. We say that the Government is not delivering the goods it promised to deliver. All it is doing is taking unto itself more and more power because it has control of the purse. 
I wish to deal now with a point made by the honourable member for Casey, who apparently has become suddenly disinterested. We take the view that the governments of the larger and wealthier States- I come from one of the smaller States- should not be blamed constantly for the conditions that are caused largely by the disadvantages that they suffer under the federal system. If, for example, the States of New South Wales and Victoria were able to spend all the money that they raised within their boundaries they would have the best roads, the best sewers and the best hospitals in the world. But the federal system does not operate in that way. In fact, in a sense it could be said that those States are subsidising the smaller States. It is quite significant that within 12 months of a Labor administration taking over in South Australia, which is the State from which I come, it became a mendicant State. It has been very badly managed. 
If the philosophy put forward by the honourable member for Casey and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development were carried through it would be a mendicant State permanently because what they are really saying is that the smaller States will spend the money that they can raise and nothing else within their own boundaries. If it had not been for the federal system, which gives advantages to people who live in the State from which I come and the other smaller States, we would be still travelling around in horse drawn vehicles on unmade dirt roads and we would be still living in two-room bluestone cottages with wooden plank privies down at the bottom of the garden. That I think highlights more than anything else the difference between us in philosophy. The smaller States, especially the 2 small Labor governed States, should beware if this philosophy is carried right through in all areas. For that reason I would like to record very briefly what the Opposition's philosophy is as set out in a publication called 'The Way Ahead', which was produced just before the last election, which sets out LiberalCountry Party policies which will be expanded and improved as time goes on and which will be put to the people when an opportunity occurs before the next election. 
That will depend upon Caucus fights and the actions of the Prime Minister. The Liberal-Country Party's platform on urban improvement and regional development reads: 
The Liberal and Country Parties do not believe there can be uniform or nationally imposed solutions to urban and regional problems. 
That is the difference between us. The Government thinks there can be.  Sir, you  would know that most of the houses where you live are made of wood and that most of the houses where I live are made of brick. The whole of Australia cannot be treated as being the same sort of country. The platform continues: 
For this reason, we will uphold the clearly different roles of the Federal, State and Local Governments in the development of our urban policies. We believe that the present approach concentrates scarce skills in Canberra. We believe it duplicates functions which properly belong at the State and local levels. Our support will take the form of co-operation, not competition, with the States. As we have seen in the debate on this legislation today, there is confrontation with the States. 
The key role of the State Governments in identifying urban problems, setting urban priorities and establishing urban amenities needs to be recognised. The States are the proper level of Government to co-ordinate intra-state transport, land release, regional planning and to plan regional facilities. These functions already fall within the responsibility of the State governments. 
What we are saying is that the Federal Government should be supporting the States, not trying to take powers away from them. We support this legislation just as we would support any legislation to improve conditions in the cities but we make the point .that it is no good lending money at high interest rates to the States. They can borrow money themselves anyway. The only way to help them is by making money available by way of grants. The Government promised to do this but it has broken its promise. Despite these factors, we support this legislation. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How many homes were valued in excess of the statutory limit for a Home Savings Grant by (a) less than $500, (b) less than $1,000 and (c) less than $5,000 during each of the years 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
What was the average savings period for those applications for a Home Savings Grant which were rejected, because acceptable savings were not held for the minimum period, during each of the same years. 
What was the average residential period for persons whose applications for a Homes Savings Grant were rejected, because of failure to meet the residential requirement, during each of the same years. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
When will the Government-commissioned inquiry into the financing of home ownership be completed. 
Will the Government make the report available to the Parliament. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Do members of the recently appointed Australian Advisory Committee on International Women's Year receive any income or allowances in their capacity as members of the committee; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister for the Environment and Conservation, upon notice: 
Do members of the re-structured Australian Advisory Committee on the Environment receive any income or allowances in their capacity as members of the Committee; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Government still propose that its tax deductibility scheme for interest on home mortgages will be retrospective to 1 July 1974, and will taxpayers be able to claim deductions on a weekly basis. 
If so, what arrangements should eligible taxpayers be making to obtain the benefit of the deduction now. 
If not, when and how does the Government propose to assess the deduction, especially in relation to wage and salary movements. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) How many books for which book bounty has been paid were submitted to the Attorney-General's Department for examination during each of the years 1972-73 and 1973-74. 
) What were the titles of the books. 
Who were the applicants. 
Which titles were (a) approved and (b) not approved as suitable for bounty. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the 1 973-74 return under the Book Bounty Act be presented to Parliament. 
What are the requirements for a printer to be registered as a book producing shop for the purpose of obtaining bounty. 
What is the form of application for bounty, i.e. is there a printed form or is it by letter from the printer. 
What are the gradings of the public servants who (a) process and (b) approve the application. 
Are the application forms or letters destroyed; if so, how long are they retained before destruction and who destroys them; if not, where are they filed. 
Will the Minister provide Parliament with a record of the titles on which bounty was paid in respect of South Australian printers (a) for the year 1973-74 and (b) for the months of July and August 1 974. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say what are the academic qualifications of  Dr Levinson  who recently visited Australia. 
What is his present occupation, and where is he employed. 
Did the Australian Government make any financial contribution to the cost of his visit; if so, what are the details. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that the Commonwealth Government stands ready to lend the States more money for housing if the States can demonstrate that they can use it? Is it also a fact that New South Wales has demonstrated that it can immediately lend through terminating building societies the sum of $50m for low income earners but that at the conference of Housing Ministers held last Friday New South Wales was allocated only $17m? Will the Minister reconsider the New South Wales claim which, if satisfied, would not only assist low income earners to obtain homes but also do much to save the home building industry from total collapse? 
-I want to bring the debate back to the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. In particular I want to talk about what I believe to be the utter shambles in which the housing industry finds itself in the Australian Capital Territory. A recent claim by the Government was that a 4- bedroom government house could be bought in the A.C.T. for $24,000. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  may remember something about this. As a result of that claim and those reports I have received some mail which indicates something of the true position of housing, and in particular government housing, in the A.C.T. I received a letter from one person who sought to buy the 3-bedroom home- not a 4-bedroom home- in which she was living. She was quoted $25,000. 1 happen to have bought a home in the A.C.T. also. I can assure the Minister that everybody in the A.C.T. knows it is pretty hard to get any sort of home for $25,000; in fact it is virtually impossible. This particular one was a government home. It was 47 years old and had no hot water in the kitchen. There was hot water in the bath but no hot water in the hand basin in the bathroom. The doors were buckled, the woodwork was buckled, the ceiling and the architraves were all twisted and half the doors could not be closed. That is one example. The second letter referred to a two-bedroomed government house in the A.C.T. which was quoted to the occupier at a price of $24,000. This house was only 27 years old. In this case there was no hot water in the kitchen or in the laundry. 
We are talking about housing right here in the A.C.T. I should like the Minister to tell us what these houses would have cost the Government, one 47 years old and one 27 years old- possibly 1,000 or 2,000. 1 pose the question: Does the Government wish to place itself in the position of being a speculator? Does the Government think that it ought to make handsome profits, and if so why rubbish developers and others who do just that? I think the Government will find out that it will have to make profits if it is to buy more houses and speculate. Or is it the official policy of this Government- which is more likely, and certainly is so in the A.C.T.- to make us a nation, or a Territory, of renters? I think this is the more likely philosophical approach of the Minister for the Capital Territory, who is at the table. The attitude of the Liberal and Country Parties in this area is that we believe in home ownership- we do not make any pretence about it- for all those who wish home ownership. We acknowledge that there are some people who wish to rent accommodation. 
I should like to quote from a speech made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  a couple of weeks ago, which would seem to support my contention. He said that home building would be encouraged in ways that would help low income people first. He went on to say: 
The little voices should not be drowned out by the thunderous noise of the big institutions. 
That is fairly typical of the sort of Press and media releases that he puts out. We say that Ministers like the Minister for the Capital Territory and the Minister for Housing and Construction want to impose their socialist philosophies on all of us. They want to represent themselves as representing the little man, the poor man, the man the Minister described as the one with the little voice, who is admittedly now dependent on the Government. But they want to make us all dependent on the Government forever. That is the difference between our philosophies. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory put out a Press release the day before yesterday which was given considerable publicity. It was headed 'Government Housing Loans' and was mentioned by my colleague the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street).  The proposal is alleged to provide tremendous benefits at the reduced interest rates which will apply in the A.C.T. Having mentioned that it is practically impossible to buy a home even for $25,000 in the A.C.T., let us assume that one could buy a home here for $20,000. With the amount of money that this generous Minister has made available, according to this Press release, anybody who is eligible for the loan proposed would have to find $8,000 deposit. I suggest to the Minister that there are very few people- one could count them on one hand- who are earning $122 a week and thus eligible for the 5 per cent interest rate, or who are on less than $136 a week, who will save $8,000 as long as they live. These same people have no hope of arranging mortgage finance. Few of them- few of us- could afford it with bridging finance at 20 per cent interest. It is just not on. Even if they could get past all these barriers they would have no possible hope of servicing the loan on their sort of salary. So this low interest loan announcement of the Minister for the Capital Territory is no joy whatsoever for anybody in the A.C.T., particularly those on low incomes whom he purports to be concerned about. 
Assuming that someone on $136 a week can raise $8,000- by robbing a bank or somethingjust the interest alone at this low rate is $19.23 a week, which is quite reasonable for these days. But if this man's income goes up by $ 1 to $ 1 37 a week he will then have to pay $35.58 a week in interest alone. His penalty for increasing his income by $ 1 a week is $ 1 5 a week. In the Minister 's same Press release he said: 
A borrower who qualified for the lower rates of interest and subsequently received a higher income could expect to have the interest rate adjusted upwards. 
Anybody in the ACT who is eligible for one of these low interest loans- I do not think there are many- would be downright crazy to take advantage of it because with rising incomes, the moment that person's income went above 95 per cent of average weekly earnings- which is the relevant level in the case I am citing- he would be liable for  9lA  per cent interest instead of  5Vi  per cent. I just do not see how the Minister can claim that there is any common sense in that whatever. 
There is not very much time to go into some of the other statements. He mentioned comparison with the States. There is no comparison with the States in this area because if one negotiates a loan with a terminating building society or State bank the interest rate is virtually fixed forever, or is certainly not related to one's income, although it might move according to other influences in the interest market. We say that this policy has the opposite effect to that desired. It destroys incentive and with incomes going up at the rate of  22Vi  per cent annually- foreshadowed by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)-  really nobody in the near future will be eligible for these low interest loans. In the Press release the Minister also said that he will review the matter every 2 years. But who wants to make a commitment at 5'/4 per cent interest today and 2 years from now be up for whatever the Minister then chooses- 9  V*  per cent, lO'/i per cent, 12 per cent, who knows? That is just not on. 
I should like in the moments left to me to say something about the position of the home building industry in the ACT. Already literally dozens of home builders have closed down and many more will leave the Territory by Christmas time. This I give as a firm prediction. Living units will become dearer and scarcer. Unemployment will increase dramatically as a direct result of the gross mismanagement, not only of the affairs of this Territory but also the affairs of the nation by this Government and these Ministers. I suggest that by next March almost half the work force engaged in the building industry will be out of work. 
For the information of the honourable gentleman, the Department of Labor and Immigration has already telephoned builders in the ACT asking them to put on apprentices. This is just not on. Not only are apprenticeships not available now, but when students reach the school leaving stage there will be a very serious situation all over the country, not only here in Canberra. The Government, through these 2 Ministers, is double-crossing the low income earners it purports to represent. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What steps are being taken to reduce interest rates as promised on 13 March 1974. 
What steps are being taken to reduce the escalating costs in the building industry as promised on 25 July 1974. 
What steps can the Opposition take to assist the Government as suggested by him on 25 July 1974. 
-The Opposition supports the amendments contained in the Bill. We certainly are not opposed to any of them. I think the speeches made by various member of this side of the House indicate how pleased we are with the alterations to the legislation. In the brief moments which are available to me in this debate let me say how much I regret the remarks of the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin),  and make the point that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  certainly did not introduce any party political aspects into the debate. It was only the honourable member for Banks who did that. I hope that, when he is the  Deputy Speaker  on some future occasion and I happen to stray away from the Bill, he will be as lenient with me as you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  were with him. That is not a reflection on you, Sir; rather it is meant to be a reflection on the honourable member for Banks. 
One point that I should like to make- this is not strictly relevant to this legislation- relates to the amendment dealing with the introduction of the Australian mariner into the provisions covered by this Act. I take it that the amendment means that people who served in the merchant marine are now included in this legislation. I most certainly welcome that. I suggest to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  that he should discuss this matter with the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  because it seems to me that the person who served in the mercantile marine and who has now been acknowledged to be on the same basis as ex-servicemen for repatriation benefit purposes should also be entitled to what we used to call the war service home loan. I hope that the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who is at the table and paying careful attention, will discuss this matter with the Minister. 
I shall comment very briefly on what the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn)  had to say. I think it is popular to say that anybody who served and who now suffers from a heart condition, high blood pressure or anything else should have that condition accepted as being caused by war service. I think this is not really strictly fair. It is 33 years since I was discharged. If, when I am walking back to my room after this debate, I happen to drop dead with a heart attack there is no way in the world I would expect my widow to say that it happened as a result of my war service. The Department of Repatriation and Compensation, as it now is, has tended through the administration of succeeding governments to encourage this form of application. I think it is a fact that every time an exserviceman dies his widow receives automatically an application form on which to apply for a pension. In my view this encourages wives to think that possibly their husband's death resulted from war service. Really that is stretching a pretty long bow these days. The honourable member for Cook made the point that he thought that people who had served and who had heart attacks, suffered from high blood pressure or had psychiatric problems should be given the benefit of the doubt. I take the view that over the years the Department has bent over backwards and given the vast majority of exservicemen the benefit of the doubt. To that extent I wish to be dissociated from the view of the honourable member for Cook. 
I wish to refer to a case which the Special Minister of State might like to discuss with the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation in another place. I have been pursuing the case of an ex-serviceman who claims to have been in receipt of a totally and permanently incapacitated pension. He claims that the pension is being taken from him. I hope that the Minister might hurry up the inquiry. My understanding of the English language is not correct if the pension of a totally and permanently incapacitated person is to be taken away. I should like to get this file cleaned up. It is about the only repatriation one I have. 
Another point I wish to make concerns the matter mentioned by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  who said that he did not believe that combining matters dealing with compensation with the Department of Repatriation tended to downgrade the role of repatriation. In my view this is exactly what it does. I think a large number of ex-servicemen have the same view. It is a fact that the change was developed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I was disappointed to see the amalgamation of matters dealing with compensation with the Department of Repatriation. I was somewhat disappointed at the appointment of the Minister. It is true that he did go to Vietnam; the difference is that he went to North Vietnam and not to South Vietnam. We do not oppose the legislation. 
-On behalf of the Opposition Parties I state that we totally support all the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report- by leave- adopted. 
-There are very few people in the community who do not believe that the home building industry in Australia is at the verge of total collapse. The Opposition has been warning the Government for months. All sections of the building industry, the building finance industry and State Ministers, both Labor and non-Labor, have been alerting the Government to the signs of a rapidly approaching disaster. The Government has ignored all the available advice, and we believe that unless a rescue operation is mounted immediately, and unless home building is given the priority we gave it in Government, the industry will be destroyed. 
When the Liberal-Country Party was in Government very nearly every Australian who wished to do so could buy his own home and service it on his own income. Flat accommodation was freely available at competitive and relatively low rentals and housing commissions were able to make a positive contribution in the so-called welfare housing section of the community. Under a Liberal-Country Party Government homeseekers had access to finance on reasonable terms and conditions, and home ownership was actively encouraged. This remains LiberalCountry Party policy. 
In government we shall ensure that housing for the Australian people recovers the priority it enjoyed before Labor started to pull it to pieces. The more damage the Government does to the industry the longer it will take us to repair it. We believe that it can be done by co-operating with the States and with private enterprise, by encouraging initiative and thrift, not penalising it, by encouraging moderation and restraint in Government spending as well as in wage claims, by reducing, not raising taxes, by encouraging overseas investment- in fact by adopting the whole range of policies consistently advocated by the leadership of the Liberal and Country Parties. What a sick joke it is to learn that after all the ranting against foreign capital, multinationals and so on, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is now going overseas to try to drum up some foreign investment for Australia. 
The Labor Party went to the people on a range of policies now totally discredited. This purports to be Labor's housing policy: 
The integration of all housing policies with urban, regional and social welfare policies in such a way as to ensure that every family can secure accommodation of its own choosing, appropriate to its own needs. 
These are fine sentiments and the words would read well in any Party's manifesto. But that is all they are- words without action- and in the process of implementing Labor's policies to restructure our society the first casualties have been the very people Labor claims to represent- the low to middle income earner, the family man struggling to maintain a wife and children and the frail aged. Only the very wealthy can under this Labor Government 'secure accommodation of its own choosing, appropriate to its own needs'. In its doctrinaire bid to soak the rich Labor has actually snowed the poor. 
In the last year of a Liberal-Country Party Government, 156,000 dwellings were commenced in Australia. In 1973 commencements totalled 176,000. For the current year commencements will probably be around 142,000. The significant point is the rate of commencements. For the second half of this year it will be somewhere around 1 1,000 a month, and could be even less, depending on what is left in the pipeline. This means that the commencements for next year will be approximately 130,000 dwellings. There should be an immediate assessment of Australian annual housing requirements involving representatives of the private as well as the public sector, and this is one initiative the Opposition suggests to the Government. 
In the absence of suitable research we must assume that the annual demand for dwellings is at least the old pre-inflation rate of 156,000 a year, which means that we shall end this year with a shortfall of 14,000 dwellings. If the true demand is in fact what the industry was able to produce last year, this year's shortfall is 33,000 dwellings. Either way the Government should be tremendously concerned. These figures spell disaster and the Government has nobody to blame but itself. Next year there will be an annual commencing rate of only 130,000 dwellings and a shortfall of somewhere between 14,000 at best and 30,000 at worst to make up. Comparing the present shortfall of houses and other living units with next year's under supply, there will be at best 50,000 dwellings and at worst 79,000 dwellings short by this time next year. Figures released by the permanent building societies last week show a projection next year of only 1 5,000 societyfinanced houses for the whole of Australia. This is a reduction in the annual rate of 60,000 dwellings in the 2 years since Labor gained office. Loan approvals by the major institutional lenders for housing are the only true indications of future commencements. For the 3 months ended August 1 974 the savings banks were down 45.8 per cent and the permanent building societies 44.4 per cent. We believe these figures are absolutely staggering. 
In its short 22 months of office the Government has made a fantastic mess of the housing industry and it will take a long while to clean it up. In the first place it has severely retarded production and thereby created a shortage of homes and flats and put thousands in the building and supporting industries out of work. Secondly, it has allowed costs of production to escalate at an annual rate of approximately 25 per cent. The weekly increase in the cost of building a modest home is more than $125, which is nearly the national average wage. This has effectively destroyed the value of saving and made the possibility of home ownership a distant dream for all but the very wealthy. Thirdly, the Government has increased interest rates to a level which precludes income earners in the range of $130 to $200 a week from being able to service a mortgage at current interest levels. Repayments on a $20,000 mortagage have gone from $36 a week to $47 a week and the interest which a person with a $20,000 mortgage will pay over the average term of 30 years is $47,000. 
None of the measures announced by the Government will help resolve the mess it has made of the home building industry. Pushing money through the terminating building societies means only that low income families will be able to arrange mortgages of $ 12,000 to $ 1 5,000. This will not help many of them get into a home or unit. It is simply not possible to buy an acceptable family dwelling in any urban area today for less than $20,000. Few people on middle incomes, much less low incomes, can afford the deposit gap which is anything from $5,000 to $15,000. As the Director of Defence Service Homes noted in his annual report last week, the average cost of dwellings financed by his Department rose by almost $5,000 last year. There is not a single policy, or even foreshadowed policy initiative, by the Government which will make the slightest difference to the major problems facing the home seeker today. This is obvious to everybody in the community but the Government. Australia needs a housing corporation like it needs a hole in the head. If the Government sincerely wants to save the building industry it should abandon this plan for yet another wasteful and unnecessary piece of socialist empire building and making the money available through the banking system to home builders now paying 15 per cent and more to stay in business. It should also immediately stop the discrimination in overdraft rates forced by the Government on the banking system. Why should a business with an overdraft of $50,000 or more pay 1 per cent to 1 .5 per cent more than those beneath this limit? As it is, 11.5 per cent is an intolerable burden. Does the Government regard a builder or any business enterprise with an overdraft of $50,000 or more as the epitome of capitalism which must be destroyed at all costs? What has happened to the promise of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 28 April? Unfortunately there is not time for me to read his promise into Hansard but he promised that housing finance would remain at a satisfactory level. He said he would look after home buyers and small businesses. 
The Government must reduce pressure on costs caused by its support of irresponsible pacesetting wage demands. Until now the Government has poured kerosene on the fire of wages cost inflation. It must substantially reduce interest rates. It was this Government's action in establishing a bond rate of 11 per cent which jacked up interest rates to the fantastic levels now quoted in the market place. If a person can secure second mortgage finance today- few can- the going rate is 19.8 per cent. It is not so much the availability of mortgage loans for home seekers which the building industry needs so desperately, what it needs is a reduction in the interest rate and, therefore, a reduction in the cost to the home buyer of servicing mortgage loans. Initially this may be a mildly inflationary measure to adopt but there is a monumental amount of government spending which can and should be trimmed to offset it, not the least being the stupid and unnecessary waste of $25m to establish a government housing corporation. We believe that the Government is totally irresponsible in managing the Australian economy. It is no good blaming everybody else for the present economic mess. Eventually the Government will have to realise that it cannot be all things to all people. It must take some unpopular measures or look forward to another 23 years in Opposition. It has had more practice at being in Opposition than in government and it is obviously very much better at it. 
-The Opposition certainly agrees with the idea of considering these 2 Bills together. Let me say at the outset that the Opposition does not intend to oppose either of them. One Bill seeks to introduce certain amendments to the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement which was negotiated last year. We will support those amendments. The other Bill seeks to arrange for the transmission of funds to finance this Agreement. I think that at least one State- probably more than one State- has already passed complementary legislation. For this reason the Opposition agrees that it is important that these Bills be passed as quickly as possible. The fact that amendments are now necessary, so soon after the original agreement was negotiated, supports the views which we have expressed and which the various State Housing Ministers have expressed that the 1973 Agreement was no improvement on earlier agreements. In fact, it was generally accepted on our side of the House that it was a retrograde step. Under the 1945 original agreement- and those operating while we were in government- the concessional rate of interest was related to the long-term bond rate. In operation the interest charge under the 1945 agreement was pegged at 3 per cent although the long-term bond rate rose from 3V4 per cent in 1945 to 5 per cent in 1956. The concessional rate while we were in governmentto be fair I will say 'with minor exceptions'was always maintained at 1 per cent below the long-term bond rate. I believe that the concessional gap which exists today of 4 per cent and even 5 per cent is grossly out of balance. 
-Too big. In the 1973 agreement this tie with the long-term bond rate was abandoned. Advances to the State Housing Authorities and to the home builders accounts from which loans are made to co-operative building societies and, in the State of South Australia, State banks, were fixed at 4 per cent and  4Vi  per cent respectively. It is now becoming obvious to anyone with half a brain that with a rising long-term bond rate the pegged concessional rate of interest is producing serious inequities and the benefits of those obtaining welfare housing compared to the rest of the community, especially including those without any house at all, are staggering. 
I would interpose here the point that the Government proposes to abolish totally the home savings grant. I received a letter from the Minister for Housing  (Mr Les Johnson)  just a few days ago which also confirms that the Government has no intention of lifting the limit on house value above $22,500. 1 thank the Minister for the letter because it clears up a point which has been of some concern to people in the community. At the same time I make the point that when that legislation has gone there is nothing to assist a person without a home to obtain a home. Not if, but when, we return to government in the near future we are committed to reintroducing the home savings scheme. We will clean it up and improve it. We do not deny that it can be improved. 
One of the worst features of this Government's behaviour- and to this extent I say that the Minister is also slightly guilty- has been its treatment of the States and the way in which it has managed to circumvent the Australian Constitution and thereby impose its socialist and centralist ideology upon the Australian people. The Government has made no statement about its constitutional authority to purchase the land at Glebe. Nor has there been an official pronouncement about the proposed acquisition of the Leyland land for the simple reason, I suspect, that the Commonwealth Government has no constitutional power to purchase either of those pieces of land. I realise that this is not strictly within the area of the Minister. However, it is of considerable interest to us and, I am sure, to the Australian people. 
I draw the attention of the Minister to a question placed on notice on 12 November concerning in particular the Glebe land. I hope that we will at least get an answer in the near future about the letting policy of the Government in relation to this land. I also draw the attention of the Minister to the suggestion in the local newspaper that people living in that area are in fact being moved out. 
Bills were before the House. In fact, they were supported by the Opposition. 
I simply make the point that in that instance the Government bought the land without constitutional authority and that it is now advertising for people to be employed at a very high salary to run, maintain and manage the land. I also make the point that there is some problem with rentals. I do this by way of passing reference and I hope that the Minister will do something about it. 
I do not want to labour the point. I make only a passing reference because there is no other opportunity to make the point. We believe that the Australian Government is taking these actions without the constitutional authority to do so. The present Government should realise that the State governments are also elected by people, the same people who elect the Federal Government. As recent State and other elections have certainly indicated, the Australian people have a different idea of the mandate given to the Government from the idea which the Government has. We believe that the Government has no mandate to circumvent the Australian Constitution. The failure of recent referenda makes the Australian people's view quite clear in relation to attempts to upset the Constitution. 
Coming back to the Bill, the first proposed amendment, which is to clause 9, restores to the States the right to allocate more than what we believe was a restrictive 30 per cent of the loan funds to building institutions authorised to finance home building. This clause was strenuously opposed by the State Ministers when it was first advocated by the Federal Minister. Having read the transcripts of the proceedings of the various conferences between the Housing Ministers, it is fair to say that the Federal Minister adopted a take it or leave it attitude from which he has now had to retreat. To insist on this amendment in the first place makes nonsense of the Government's assertion that it supports the principle of home ownership. 
The second proposed amendment concerns the imposition of a needs test upon persons seeking dwellings from State housing commissions or housing trusts. In the 1973 Agreement, which the 
Minister forced upon the States last year, an applicant's overtime was included in his income for the purpose of determining his eligibility for a commission dwelling or for a loan from the Home Builders Account. Victoria was the only State with a formal needs test. But, as each State Minister pointed out in the 1973 discussions, the States themselves, without exception, applied a needs or a means test hi the allocation of these dwellings or these funds. Although not formal, the guidelines were clear enough, and overtime was never included in the applicant's income. The Minister on that occasion once again maintained his take it or leave it attitude and now he has had to admit that the States knew more about it than he did. As a result overtime will no longer be included. 
I refer briefly to the unfortunate incident involving the Victorian Housing Minister. He was so disgusted with the treatment that the State Ministers were getting that he actually left the conference. Unlike the Government, we believe in co-operation with Ministers, not confrontation. 
I am not sure what the interjection is. 
-I rather doubt that the honourable member is sitting in his place. Therefore I will not respond. I refer to an article in the 'Age' newspaper of 12 October. No one knows better than the Minister how to get reports in the newspapers these days. The article to which I refer makes reference to  Mr Dickie's  three weeks 'running battle' with  Mr Johnson-  although I would think that it has probably been longer than 3 weeks- over a means test for low income earners, which is exactly what we are talking about- government housing for low income earners.  Mr Dickie  wanted the limits reviewed immediately and, according to this report,  Mr Johnson  wanted to wait until early next year, and  Mr Dickie  walked out of the talks. 
Is the Minister saying that that is not true? 
Somehow or other the 'Age' has got a wrong report. But certainly  Mr Dickie,  the Housing Minister in Victoria was very upset and he said: 'I will make the decisions now and they can try to buck me if they like. I am fed up with Canberra'. This means that he is fed up with the treatment that the Federal Minister has been handing out to him. 
The third proposed amendment alters the Agreement to make it possible for supplementary advances to be negotiated during a financial year. This suggestion, as the Minister will well remember, was also made by the State Ministers and was also turned down flat by him. Once again he has presumably seen the error of his ways and has had to change his aggressive stance and amend the Agreement. However, with some of his typically quick footwork, he has been able to predict the change and make it look as though it came about by his own initiative. I must say that I do admire the way in which the Minister has done that. He is able to announce all the bad news in the world about housing and cloak it with a good news appearance and have it so reported. I hope that when we are in government we have the same sort of success. I have never known a Housing Minister who has announced so much bad news, especially for Australian home seekers, has dressed it up as good news and, what is more, has had it reported by the media as good news. 
The Opposition does not oppose the legislation. We feel that the States have been bludgeoned into accepting it. I think the Victorian Minister used similar words only a few days ago, which confirms this point of view. The States have been bludgeoned into its acceptance because of the concessional rate of interest. As I said earlier, some of the States- certainly Western Australia- have already passed complementary legislation. I believe that the principle of granting concessional rates of interest is not a good principle. It may well create grave problems in the future. One might well ask how long it will be before there will be a conference of some other groups of Ministers- perhaps Health Ministers- who will be called together to establish some  similar agreement which will similarly excise a portion of public spending at concessional rates of interest. 
I will come to that in a moment. I appreciate the interjection because I want to deal with interest rates separately. What I am saying now is that if groups of Ministers are going to get together and arrange between them an agreement at concessional rates of interest, and if part of the agreement is that powers will be surrendered to the Federal Minister in Canberra, I can see dangers. I believe that this Agreement has also created serious social problems because of its discriminatory effect upon those persons in the community unfortunate enough to have to pay the market rate of interest, which may be perhaps 11% per cent or 12 per cent It seems to me to be totally unfair that the action of this Government has forced the majority of home buyers and home builders to pay 4 per cent or 5 per cent more in interest than the select few who will be able to purchase a home as a result of this so-called welfare housing agreement. The Australian Labor Party went to the people on a range of policies. I think it is fanenough to say, after last night's performance, that those policies are now totally discredited and rejected by a helpless Australian community. The Labor Party 's housing policy states: ... the integration of all housing policies with urban, regional and social welfare policies in such a way to ensure that every family can secure accommodation of its own choosing appropriate to its own needs. 
That is what the Labor Party says about housing. I would like the Minister for Housing to tell us how his Government relates those pious words to the application of a means test to a housing commission or, as it is in South Australia, housing trust tenant who subsequently desires to purchase his home. The means test described in the Agreement will apply not only at the time of the allocation of a house, whether on a rental or home ownership basis, but also to a tenant who desires to purchase subsequently. Consequently a tenant who has an eligible income when he is allotted a house, whose income increases subsequently beyond the means test and who then feels that he can undertake ownership will be debarred from acquiring the home in which he has been and probably still is living and to which he has no doubt made substantial improvements in the way of planting lawns and shrubs and building concrete paths. How does the Minister relate that to the Government's housing policy, which claims to ensure that every family can secure accommodation of its own choosing that is appropriate to its own needs? When he sums up perhaps the Minister might be able to deal with that one. 
We believe that the philosophy of the Labor Party is crystal clear, that is, that the worker will live in publicly owned housing, that home ownership creates little capitalists and must be discouraged and that the worker will remain beholden to the Government, which, like Big Brother will provide everything from the cradle to the grave. We should recall the many statements which have been made by the Minister to the effect that the States will be given all the money that they can spend to house low to moderate income families. Each of the State Ministers prepared detailed and I should think well supported cases for additional funds which could be put to use immediately to assist not only to overcome the housing shortage, which I think even the Minister will agree is chronic in Australia today, but also the building industry to recover from the depressing effects that the present Government's economic policies have created. 
The Minister has talked about an open cheque for the States. Just 6 or 8 weeks ago he was talking about a bottomless pit. In one of the delightful Press releases which the Minister for Housing churns out daily and which are frequently picked up by the Press he talked about a bottomless pit of funds for housing. He said that he had told the State Ministers that he will give them all the money they can use to build more homes for the lower income earners. I am sure that he will nod his head in agreement with that. He also talked about an open cheque for the States. But, like so many of the Government's extravagant promises, the performance has not matched the words. That cheque had already been crossed and marked 'not negotiable' and 'account payee only' long before the Minister met with his State counterparts last month. The Minister for Housing will remember the concern of his counterpart from the State of New South Wales, which received $50m less than the amount which it had asked for and which it had assured him it could spend. As the  President  of the Association of Cooperative Building Societies of New South Wales said at a housing conference only about 3 weeks ago- on 20 October to be precise- the people most affected by the Government's policies have been the low income earners, who are the people the Association had been designed to serve. I make the point that they are the people who the Federal Government- I believe falsely- also claims to represent. 
There are a couple of points I would like to put to the Minister or to the House on the question of low incomes. Perhaps I should put them in the form of questions. In this regard I think that we all suffer the same sort of problem. What is a low income earner? How many people are earning less than the average wage? The position is that no one knows. There is no statistical information available which tells us how many people in this country earn how much money. The figures which are supplied by the Australian Bureau of 
Statistics from the Taxation Office are always 2 years old and are quite irrelevant. I put it to the Minister, without trying to score any political points from him, that this area of the activities of the Bureau of Statistics should be, to use an expression, jazzed up. No matter which party is in Government it cannot make a proper assessment if it does not know how many people it is catering for. Let us think in terms of a rough graph on which the peak is the average weekly wage. We do not know how many of the people on the left of it go down to, say, $70 or $80 a week and we do not know how many people are on the longer, tapering out line on the right which goes up to $2 10 a week. 
I have mentioned those figures deliberately. The way in which the legislation is dratted people on 95 per cent of the average national weekly wage will receive this low interest money. But we do not know how many there are. We do know that they will get this money at an interest rate of 5% per cent. If a person is on $ 120 a week or, in the case of South Australia, $1 10 a weekbeing a South Australian you will appreciate this point,  Mr Deputy Speaker-  and has been for the last 6 months he can borrow at  53A  per cent interest but if he is on $ 1 2 1 a week in the case of the national figure, or $ 1 1 1 a week in the case of the South Australian figure, he will be lucky if he can borrow anything but if he can he could have to borrow at all sorts of rates of interest including up to 12 per cent from a building society. So I ask the Minister to take this matter up with the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who, I believe, now administers the Bureau of Statistics. 
I do not believe that this arbitrary cut-off figure is fair in any way whatsoever. The Government makes a great deal of political capital out of the fact that it is supplying finance to low income earners, but I suggest that not very many of the people in the community who are earning $110 a week in the case of South Australia or $120 in the case of the national figure will be able to take advantage of this low interest money because they still have to overcome the deposit gap. I would like the Minister to tell me whether it is possible to buy a house anywhere in Sydney for $20,000. Is it possible? It is certainly not possible in most of the places to which I have been. If one can buy a house for $20,000 and one can borrow the money at the rate of 5% per cent interest one has still to overcome the deposit gap of $5000. Of course, it is more likely to be $8,000 or $10,000. I do not know whether the Minister is interested in this problem, but it seems to me to be the nub of the issue of the Government's making money available to low income families. It is no good making it available if they cannot use it. 
Another problem which is related to this matter and which affects not only people on low incomes but also people on all sorts of incomes is the cost of building. I do not think that the Minister is going to make any effort to acknowledge my comments at this moment because he is at present conducting an animated conversation, although presumably he is interested in the matters in which I am interested. I have had a question on notice since, I think, 7 July about the cost of housing. I cannot understand why the Minister does not answer it, although I could hazard a guess. Perhaps he will give some sort of indication by way of nodding his head. Taking the cost of housing as revealed by the consumer price index figures, it does appear as though the cost of building a modest dwelling for about $20,000 is escalating faster than the national average wage. While the cost of housing is going up at this rate and the deposit gap is widening how can the people he claims to be helping with low interest money get any advantage? The Minister does not seem to be interested in answering that question either. At some stage I should like the Minister also to indicate what he believes will be the shortfall of houses because Opposition members believe that at this moment the shortfall is at least 50,000 and by this time next year could be as high as 150,000 or 160,000, which represents one year's supply of dwelling units throughout Australia. 
I feel sorry for the Minister that in the short time he has held this portfolio he has presided over the destruction of the building industry and has adversely affected the possibility of people ever achieving home ownership. This will not be a pleasant label for him to have to wear for the rest of his life in Opposition. The Minister asked me to give him the benefit of the Opposition's views on the question of interest rates. I have already told him that I do not believe that concessional rates are a good thing in the long term, but there is really a jungle in the interest rate situation in Australia today. I do not know how any young person or any person about to buy a home can manage. People do not know where to go to seek information or just what to do. One of our policy initiatives in government will be to set up a housing guidance bureau. 
I appreciate the interjection because this policy proposal for a housing guidance bureau was the brain child of my colleague from the Lilley electorate in Queensland. When we are returned to government we will see that its establishment becomes a fact. However, let us examine the variations in interest rates. The Minister has provided a concessional interest rate of 5% per cent. In South Australia even if people are able to bridge the deposit gap- I suggest that not many can these days- there is an 8-months delay for a new home and a 2 -years delay for a lived-in home at the concessional rate of 5% per cent. The next interest rate is 6% per cent which is that which applies to loans to qualified people from the terminating building societies and the Savings Bank of South Australia and the State Bank of South Australia. This relates to people who have an income in excess of $109.50. 1 cannot think of any more effective way to make all Australians equal than the way in which this Government has messed up interest rates. As I said, 6% per cent is the rate from those banks in South Australia for people who are above the 95 per cent income figure. I should imagine this rate applies to terminating societies throughout Australia. A person in South Australia who wishes to negotiate a loan goes to a bank. His gross income is assessed. The bank takes into account the amounts involved in his first and second mortgage repayments, his hire purchase commitments and his rates and taxes, which are escalating at an inconceivable rate under the Dunstan Government. If, after these amounts are deducted, the person has a surplus of $55 a week he can negotiate a loan of $15,000 which, I believe, is to be increased to $17,500. But that person still has to raise sufficient bridging finance to meet the deposit. 
With private banks interest rates are from 10 per cent to 1 1  Vi  per cent according to the value of a property. For lower priced properties one can negotiate loans at lower rates of interest. If a person lives on the property he is entitled to a lower rate of interest. I have already mentioned rates of 5% per cent, 6% per cent, 10 per cent and 11V4 per cent. This is not a bad splash of different interest rates. The most favoured rate with the Commonwealth Bank is 9Vi per cent. The poor old permanent co-operative societies provide loans at 11% and 12 per cent. The last time I checked, bridging finance- if you can get itcommanded an interest rate of 19Vi per cent. The interest structure is an absolute maze. This Government will cause more and more trouble for itself by messing about with the interest structure and by messing about also with concessional rates of interest which I do not believe should ever apply in the housing industry. The Government is talking of injecting more money into the banks but we do not know how this is to be done. Probably the Minister does not know yet and I doubt whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  knows. How is money injected into the banks? Will the banks get it from the Reserve Bank? If so, what will be the rate of interest? I am referring now to the Prime Minister's statement of last night. 
Yes, and I am prepared to bet the Minister dollars to doughnuts that it will be at a concessional rate of interest- at yet another rate of interest to add to the rates I have already listed. Perhaps the Minister is not yet in a position to say what that rate will be but until we can get away from this proliferation of interest rates I think the future for home builders and home seekers will be bleak. We do not oppose the amendments; we support the legislation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to speak to the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
I realise that. Let me make it clear that what I am advocating is that we arrive at the situation in which there is no need for these concessional or large differential rates of interest to apply. Persons benefiting from the low interest scheme now pay interest at a rate of 5% per cent while the persons living next door to them may have to pay 12 per cent. I refuse to accept that there is not something wrong with the system there. I think I should have that placed on the record, otherwise it will be used against me. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
-This is a Bill for an Act to stabilise the price of land in the Northern Territory which is required or likely to be required in connection with urban development. The Opposition is opposed to the Bill and as an amendment to the motion: 'That the Bill be now read a second time', I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the House, in disapproving of this Bill is of the opinion that the provisions contained in it should be referred to the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory to enable that Assembly to consider ways by which land prices in the Northern Territory should be stabilised, but requesting that any lands acquisition proposals which might be included in legislation to be considered by that Assembly should protect the rights of private land owners and occupiers and be on just terms'. 
The Opposition believes that this Bill clearly demonstrates the very significant differences between the philosophies of the Australian Labor Party and of the Liberal and Country Parties. In spite of all the election propaganda about the Labor Party's concern for people, this Bill reveals that Labor cares nothing about preserving the rights of the individual. Labor in government has no genuine respect for State or local government authorities and is intent on grabbing all real power for itself as the centralist authority. The Liberal and Country Parties believe in cooperation, not confrontation, with the State governments but above all else we believe in the freedom and dignity of the individual. We reject the socialist big brother concept of government by the Labor Party as exemplified in this Bill and we note the double standards and broken promises which flow from it. 
I draw to the attention of the House the third paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and quote from it because it leads up to the first aspect of the legislation to which we object. It reads: 
Because the provisions of this new legislation, which will apply only to the Northern Territory, modify some of the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act - 'Modify ' is the key word - which applies throughout Australia, it is not considered appropriate that the modifications should be brought in by way of a Northern Territory ordinance but rather they should be brought in by way of a Federal Act through this Parliament as companion legislation to the Lands Acquisition Act itself. 
To say that the provisions of this Bill 'modify some of the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act' is the understatement of the year. This Bill removes from the Lands Acquisition Act the rights of an individual who disputes a particular government action from referring that action to an independent legal authority. Surely it is the basis of all justice that if individuals or individuals and governments cannot agree on a matter then there is always a supreme court or, finally, the High Court available to settle the issue. I return to the Bill and quote clause 10 (7). Clause 10 relates to the development of land.  Mr Speaker,  it is our intention tonight, if it is possible in the time that is available to us, to push this Bill to a vote. I am not sure how many honourable members on either side of the House are likely to be speaking, but I understand that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  will be speaking. If so, there should be time for us to bring the matter to a vote. Clause 10 subclause (7), which deals with developed land, states: 
The Minister may, in his discretion, grant or refuse to grant an applicant approval for the purposes of this Act to carry out development of land. 
This means that if the Minister or his officer chooses to go to a farm, a block or some sort of land in this area under discussion, the Minister can in total discretion grant or refuse to grant an applicant for the purpose of this Act approval to carry out building, to dig a dam or do something of this sort. The applicant, the owner or occupier of the land, has no right of appeal to any other authority. That is the first of the 2 clauses to which we object very strongly. 
Clause 12 sub-clause (8) deals with the determining value factor of this legislation. I will not read through the whole clause because it is very long, but the pan that concerns us is that pan that spells out what happens when a piece of land has been valued by the Valuer-General and the applicant, owner or occupier is dissatisfied with the valuation, because of a lack of any right of appeal. Sub-clause (8) states: 
A determination made by the Valuer-General in accordance with this section- 
is final and conclusive; 
shall not be challenged, appealed against, reviewed, quashed or called in question in any court or in any arbitration under the Lands Acquisition Act; and 
is not subject to prohibition, mandamus or injunction in any court on any account. 
These are the 2 areas that concern us most seriously. To think that some person on the authority of the Minister can go all over another person's land and value it and that that person in the event of not being satisfied with the valuation has no right of appeal is, we believe, intolerable and not consistent with British justice. The Minister in his second reading speech said that this Bill modified some of the provisions of the Lands Acquisition Act. I have looked at the Lands Acquisition Act and I should like to compare the new Bill that we are debating tonight with the existing Lands Acquisition Act which it is supposed to modify. 
There are five distinct sections which deal currently with the rights of a person to appeal to a higher authority in the event of dissatisfaction with proceedings under the Lands Acquisition Act. The first one is section 13 sub-section ( 1.) of the Lands Acquisition Act which deals with the rights to determine the basis of compensation. Once again I will not read through the whole section, but just the relevant portion, which states: 
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where land is acquired under this Division, the High Court or the Supreme Court may, upon the application of the Commonwealth or any other person interested, make such orders as it thinks proper . . . 
That is the first example of the present Act giving a person the right to appeal to a higher authority. Section 21 sub-section (1.) of the present Act deals with proceedings where a claim is rejected. It states: 
Where a claim for compensation has been rejected by the Minister, the claimant may bring an action against the Commonwealth in the High Court or the Supreme Court - 
-This is section 21 sub-section (1.). I seek to make the point that the statement by the Minister that this Bill seeks to modify the present Lands Acquisition Act is totally false. In fact it is a completely revolutionary process. I have referred to 2 examples where the present Act gives a claimant the right to appeal to a court. There is only one in the Bill that the Minister seeks to have passed tonight. 
Section 28 sub-section (1.) deals with the proceedings for determination of compensation. I quote briefly from this section. It states: 
Where, in the case of a claim for compensation which has been accepted by the Minister- 
A period of 3 months has elapsed since the claim was made, but the compensation has not been determined by agreement; 
The section then deals with other examples. The Act further states: ... the claimant may, unless an agreement for the determination of the compensation by arbitration is in force, institute proceedings against the Commonwealth in a court of competent jurisdiction . . . 
That is the third example of the rights that the present Act gives to owners or occupiers when their land is acquired or is in the process of being acquired. 
The fourth example is in section 3 1 sub-section (1.). This deals with the court ensuring that acquisition is to be made on just terms, which is the expression used in our amendment. This clause states: 
Where a court having jurisdiction for the purposes of this section is of opinion that the application of any of the provisions of this Act would result in an acquisition having been made otherwise than on just terms, the court may determine such compensation or make such order (whether against the Commonwealth or against another person) as, in its opinion, is necessary to ensure that the acquisition has been made on just terms. 
This provision does not appear in the so-called modified Bill. The second part of this section states: 
Jurisdiction for the purposes of this section may be exercised 
By a court before which proceedings are instituted under another provision of this Division; or 
b ) By the Supreme Court or the High Court. 
Those are 4 examples which do not appear in the so-called modified Bill. 
The fifth example is section 44 subsection ( 1 .). This deals with giving the court the power to order a stay of proceedings under mortgage. The relevant sentence states: ... the High Court or the Supreme Court may, upon the application of the mortgagor and subject to such conditions as it thinks fit, order a stay of those proceedings . . . 
None of those 5 provisions exist in this so-called modified Bill. That is the first series of reasons that we are opposed to this BUI. The only compensation clause giving the owner or occupier any right of appeal applies only to loss or damage of his land. This provision is contained in clause 7 sub-clause ( 1 ) of the BUI. In addition, so far as I can see, there is no provision to allow consents for building applications already approved when the work has not been commenced, whether it be buildings or dams or whatever. That is our first criticism. We do not believe that the compensation power sought by the Minister and the Government is proper. How would the Minister like it if such powers were directed against him and his family? How would he or any of his colleagues like to see some government official rummaging through his house, digging holes around the yard and finally recommending compulsory acquisition of his home at a price determined by some other government official subject only to Ministerial approval, with no right to appeal to the local court or any other legal authority? I am sure if this happened that we would see the Minister- certainly the Minister who normally would be operating this legislation- protesting out in the streets. 
Our second principal criticism is directed against the Bill's treatment of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. The Australian Labor Party indulges in a great deal of pious selfpraise about its establishment of a new Legislative Assembly in the Northern Territory, selfgovernment for the Northern Territory and Senate representation for the people of the Northern Territory. I think that the results of the Legislative Assembly elections a couple of weeks ago are interesting and worthy of some passing reference seeing that we are talking about Northern Territory legislation. We believe that this legislation should be referred to the Assembly. 
I should like to read very briefly some of the policy of the Country-Liberal Party which won the election on Saturday, 19 October, to the total exclusion of the Labor Party. Seventeen out of the 19 members of the Assembly are members of the coalition Parties and the other two are independents. The Labor Party was annihilated. I think it is proper that we should think about  Dr Letts,  who is the leader of the coalition Parties in the Northern Territory, as being the equivalent of the Premier of a State. A report on his policy statement on housing and land delivered at a public meeting on 26 September states: 
De Letts said that the housing shortage was a matter of real and continuing concern to the people of the Northern Territory. The Country-Liberal Party would increase the supply of serviced land for urban dwellers by accelerating the program both in government and private sectors. 
The Country-Liberal Party supported the concept of a single housing authority to more efficiently take over the role of the present Housing Commission and Government Housing. Within this Authority there would be established an office to advise the public on the sources of finance, cost saving methods of construction, help in obtaining funds where necessary and would press strongly for increased financial allocations for home buyers. 

 Dr Letts went on to talk about the problems of town planning. He made the point that the affairs of town planning should be more open to the public and that there should be a wider representation from interested bodies. In particular he said the Country-Liberal Party would encourage the involvement of Territory women in future town planning, recognising the importance of this work in relation to the social environment. I think that it is a worthwhile policy statement from the equivalent of the Premier of the Northern Territory. 
Once again as a passing reference may I say that many of us- if not every Australian- were pleased to know that an Aborigine was elected to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. I think that he was one of the first to get sufficient votes to ensure election. The Opposition congratulates  Mr Hyacinth  Tungatalum who now represents the electorate of Tiwi. I think that he would be interested to know what is happening in this legislation because the land which the Government seeks to acquire compulsorily includes three or four Aboriginal missions and, I believe, a portion of Bathurst Island, of which  Mr Tungatalum  is now the parliamentary representative. We believe that for all these reasons these matters should be referred to the local House of Assembly. 
This legislation demonstrates the double standard operated by the Government. What could be more important to an elected government, that is a State government, than to make its own decisions on land use within its boundaries? The Government wants to have it both ways; it wants to be praised for giving the Territory its own Par.liament, but having done so it does not want that Parliament to have any real legislative power. 
I appreciate the interjection from the honourable member for Hunter. We are concerned because the Legislative Assembly is elected by the people and the people elected a very strong Liberal-Country Party majority. These are the views that the Opposition holds in this place and they are the same as the views that are held in that place. We wish to see that these matters are referred to the Legislative Assembly. The honourable gentleman who interjected- he did so in a supporting way, I know- is the  chairman  of a joint parliamentary committee which has been investigating the Northern Territory. I think that that committee should be in a position by now to make a report to the Government, to the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  and possibly to the Parliament. That is another reason why we think that this legislation is ill-timed. The Government has introduced this legislation and wants it passed but it has not even had the benefit of hearing the report and recommendations of the joint committee of which the honourable member for Hunter is the  chairman.  The committee is made up of members of the Australian Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. I appreciate his interjection. 
I am reminded of 4 comprehensive reports prepared by P.G. Pak-Poy and Associates, a firm of consulting engineers. The firm prepared new and comprehensive reports on urban development in and around Darwin. What has happened about those reports? They were commissioned by my colleague the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  who was the Minister for the Interior when we were in government. I have read the reports and they are excellent. I think that it is a great shame that once again the Government has not taken any notice of those recommendations. 
I do not have a great deal of time to say all the things that the Opposition has in mind about this legislation. I would like to say something about the Cities Commission. I briefly refer the House to the second annual report of the Cities Commission and the matters dealt with on page 27 which are directly concerned with the Northern Territory. The Cities Commission says that it has been assisting- I am sure it has been- the Department of the Northern Territory with the planning for urban development. The report states: 
The Cities Commission is working in close collaboration with the Department of the Northern Territory, with local government bodies, and with other Australian Government agencies in Darwin and Canberra. 
The Cities Commission has been in the Northern Territory assisting the Department with staff and professional advice. But the Government apparently is going to ride roughshod over whatever views the Cities Commission may have. 
I that while we are talking about the Cities Commission, it would be appropriate to compare this legislation with the legislation that applies to Albury-Wodonga which is also referred to in the Cities Commission report, because I believe that there will be an attempt- if there has not been one already- to project this legislation as being similar to the Albury-Wodonga legislation. That should be nailed once and for all; there is no comparison whatsoever. I spoke to an officer of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation at Albury on 10 October last. At that time the Corporation had purchased and settled 3,700 acres of land. It was in possession of the title for another 1,200 acres and was negotiating for 5,800 acres at Albury-Wodonga. Virtually, the Corporation was in possession of or about to possess over 10,000 acres of rural land for use as urban land at a cost of $ 18m. Some of the land was bought for $250 an acre and some was bought for up to $4,000 an acre. But the important point- I hope the  Chairman  of the joint committee that investigated these matters in the Northern Territory will bring this matter up within the committee discussions- is that there has been no unilateral resumption of land and no court of appeal hearing has been required because up to this date all the land has been purchased by negotiation. In relation to AlburyWodonga, a. person not satisfied with the terms of resumption of land on the New South Wales side of the border has the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of New South Wales. A person living on the Victorian side may appeal to the Victorian Supreme Court. So the Government is not even consistent in its application of these laws. 
We have no shortage of advice or advisers looking at the problem of the development of Darwin, but the Labor Government apparently has no intention of taking any notice of any of them. I have mentioned that a Government appointed joint parliamentary committee is about to report on the situation in the Northern Territory, yet the Minister is trying to push this legislation through the Parliament without even listening to the views of the Government's own members on that committee. The Opposition's view which I am putting tonight is entirely consistent with our policies when we were in government. I wish now to refer to a statement by the honourable Ralph Hunt, the honourable member for Gwydir, made on 25 October 1972 when he was Minister for the Interior. The statement outlined proposals for the transfer of a range of functions of the Northern Territory legislature and executive. On page 6 the statement spelt out the items of legislative responsibility which would be given by us to the Northern Territory Legislative Council, as it was then, provided they were acceptable generally in the Northern Territory. 
At that time the Government was prepared to transfer full authority to the Council and concomitant executive power to a Northern Territory Executive hi respect of a number of State type activities. Because time is running out I will mention briefly some of those activities. They included local government responsibilities, control of various forms of social legislation such as censorship, liquor licensing and workers compensation. I do not want to test your patience,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Relevant to this Bill are electricity, water and sewerage operations, housing, which excluded Commonwealth staff housing, urban land, the acquisition, allocation and subdivision of land within the control of the Territory executive, and urban arterial roads. These functions were listed on the statement. Also to be transferred were activities related to urban traffic including motor vehicle registration and a whole list of other items. 
Yes, that is exactly the position that we were trying to create at that time. We would pass over to the Northern Territory authority in matters in which the States have authority. That is the position we are how trying to achieve. If we are attracting support from the other side of the House, there is now an opportunity to support our proposed amendment. The effect of our amendment will be simply as described by the honourable member for Hunter. We want to protect the rights of property owners and occupiers and to ensure that the elected representatives of the Northern Territory take part in framing legislative action which will affect the residents of Darwin obviously for generations ahead. I commend the amendment to the House. 
-At no stage in the speech of the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson)  did he deal with the points that we made about a person having the right of appeal. In particular, we referred to clause 10 (7) and clause 12 (8). Clause 12 (8) states: 
A determination made by the Valuer-General in accordance with this section- 
is final and conclusive; 
is not subject to prohibition, mandamus or injunction in any court on any account. 
We believe that the Minister should have answered our request that there be a right of appeal. He has not. I simply wish to place that on the record. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the procedures adopted by the postal services for the delivery of mail to (a) Government departments and ( b ) private persons who have changed their address. 
When did the Stamp Duty Office at 283 Queen Street, Melbourne, leave that address, and what is happening to mail still being sent to that address. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many (a) approvals and (b) completions of living units of all types were recorded during each of the months from1 October 1 973 to 30 September 1 974. 
How many of these living units were built (a) for sale and (b) for rental during each of the same months. 
What was the average monthly cost of building the various categories of living units in the period. 
How many living units of all types were sold in this period and what was the average monthly price in each category. 
How many of these transactions were financed (a) by the A.C.T. Housing Commissioner and (b) other sources during this period. 
Are statistics available on these other sources. 
If so, are the terms and conditions of other sources comparable with those of the A.C.T. Housing Commissioner and the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. 
If not, what are the differences. 
Are uniform charges made for the preparation of documents, etc., by all lending institutions. 
If not, what are the principal differences in the charges. 
What are the conveyancing arrangements of the Department of the Capital Territory. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the announcement made on Tuesday of last week that the Government is to advance $150m through the savings banks rather than through the co-operative permanent building societies in an attempt to assist the home building industry. I ask the Prime Minister- not the Minister for Housing- when this was decided in principle and what Ministers were present. 
-Speaking briefly to the third reading, I point out that I came into the House half way through the debate. I have noted that only Opposition speakers have taken part in the debate. I would like to hear some response from the Government to the points made by the Opposition speakers who have participated in the debate. I do not know whether the Standing Orders make any provision for this request to be met but I trust that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  will at least respond by way of letter or in some other way and be courteous to that extent to those honourable members who have taken part in the debate. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Do board members or Commonwealth Hostels Limited receive any income or allowances in their capacity as board members; if so, what are the details. 
How often has the board met since 30 June 1973. 
Where does the board meet, and what is the duration of the meetings. 
Who are the present members, and what are their attendance records since 30 June 1973. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker- 

Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

 -Mr Chairman, I too have given an undertaking to the Government Whip that I will spend only two or three minutes on clause 17 which deals with deductions for interest paid on home loans. Simply,  Sir, 1  want to place on record some of the history of this matter and the views of the Opposition. I might at the outset very briefly say that the plan proposed in this legislation was initially put up both to the Labor Party and to ourselves two or three years ago by the co-operative permanent building societies. The Labor Party, in its wisdom, adopted the plan in an election platform and we did not. I would like to place on record some of the reasons why we did not. 
We believe that the legislation is discriminatory. Firstly, it discriminates against those who pay rent in favour of those who already own a home. We find that this principle is very general throughout the housing and non-housing policies of the Government. People who pay rent have very few advantages whatsoever. For example, people who pay rent cannot claim rates as a taxation deduction. We believe that this scheme discriminates very seriously against people who do not own a home. Usually such a person pays rent. 
Secondly, we believe that it discriminates against those who own a home, who pay interest on mortgage repayments but who pay very little or no income tax. One example is a pensioner. Others are people receiving superannuation payments or maybe those people who the Government apparently describes as capitalists who are living on unearned income. 
Thirdly, we believe that the legislation discriminates against those who are nearing the end of their mortgage obligations and as a result have lesser amounts of money to pay off their loans. In fact, we believe that this scheme- and this is why we discarded it- actually discourages thrift and incentive for a person to gain equity in his own home and quickly pay off a mortgage. To that extent the scheme positively encourages people to borrow more and live on the nevernever. We believe also that the scheme is regressive. The tax savings proposed under the legislation are higher for people on higher incomes who may be in a position to negotiate larger mortgages and pay higher rates of interest than persons on lower incomes. To this extent the scheme also  positively  discourages thrift. Take the example of 3 people receiving annual incomes of, say, $2,000, $4,000 and $5,000, each making identical interest payments of, say, $ 1 ,200 a year. The amount of tax that they would save respectively, using last year's income tax scale, would be just over $168, $292 and $330. So we believe that for this reason the scheme is undesirable. 
We can also see some real problems- and I fancy that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  can, too- in making this scheme work. There is the problem of salary fluctuations. Salaries can fluctuate throughout the year especially in these days of inflation and increasing salaries. There is the problem in the changing entitlement that will be involved. There is the problem of aggregating family incomes. There is the problem for employers, most of whom already have enormous extra duties to perform, maintaining staff to handle the paperwork which has been forced upon them by legislation of various governments. I cite the example of tax stamps and group certifictes which come under the responsibility of the Treasury. I think that it is an imposition on employers to be expected to assist in this matter. 
Also I see a problem with the banks. I refer to people who are using an overdraft to pay off a house. How will a bank separate the amount of interest applicable to a house and the amount applicable to some other item that may have been purchased by way of an overdraft? Perhaps the Treasurer in the time left to us will explain some of these things. Finally, will the Treasurer explain why it is that, for example, person A, who is buying a home which is an appreciating asset, can take home more pay than person B, who is paying rent, and who is disadvantaged all the way down the line, although both men perform the same amount and son of work, receive the same salary and have the same sized family? 
It is our view that the Government has no housing policy at all. All that it has is a patchwork quilt. The Government will make the position worse by abolishing the Home Savings Grant which will really mean that people who do not own a home and have to pay rent will have no incentive whatsoever left to them to acquire a deposit to buy a house. When we are re-elected to government we will re-introduce the Home Savings Grant Scheme. We will clean it up and update it. We will give particular consideration to people who pay rent because there will be more and more people in the community paying rent if they are lucky enough to be able to secure accommodation. As a passing reference to this issue I point out that because of the regressive tax imposed on unearned income fewer people will invest in flat development and flats will become harder and harder to get. If one happens to get hold of a flat the rent will become higher and higher. 
There has been a housing shortfall already this year of over 50,000. By this time next year the shortfall for the 12-month period will be well over 100,000. So without going into any more issues which I would like to introduce and test your patience,  Mr Chairman,  let me say, given the reasons for the Opposition not adopting the scheme, that we are not opposing the amendment, as the Treasurer knows, because this proposal is one of the few things on which the Labor Party can truly claim to have a mandate. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment negatived. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
How much book bounty has been paid to the printers of the following books: 
Enema by Anthony Lovejoy (b) Below the Navel by King Carol, (c) Sensual Appetite by Pierre Duval, (d) Felicity's Trip by Jeremiah Stone, (e) Inside Linda Lovelace by Linda Lovelace, (f) Adultery without Men by Ann Harris and (g) The Coming of a Woman by Alistair Hunt. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill 1974 although it does have strong reservations about some aspects of the legislation. I have read the second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  very carefully and I must say that it is almost like a call to motherhood- who could possibly oppose it? It could have been written by a Liberal Party or Country Party Minister. I suppose it is all things to all people. But I think it is important to look at the Bill and, as my colleague the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  said, it is the practice of the legislation that concerns members on this side of the House. On the very first page of his second reading speech the Minister outlined three of the provisions of the Bill, with which we entirely agree. Very briefly he said that the Bill provides that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development may, in consultation with a State Minister, approve programs of urban and regional development. This expression 'in consultation' bobs up all the way through the second reading speech. The Minister said also that for the first time it- the Bill- sets the seal on the concept and function of cooperative federalism in Australia. It allows the Australian and State governments to get together in co-operative measures. Again we find that the word 'co-operative' bobs up throughout the second reading speech. 
We believe the second reading speech is marvellous but, in fact, when one reads the Bill, one finds its effect is the opposite of that stated in the speech. It is not a matter of co-operation with the States; it is a matter of confrontation with the States. I refer to clause 7 of the Bill because if this is the Minister's idea of co-operation I must have made a terrible mistake in my understanding of that word. The clause states: 
A State shall, -  'Shall ' is the very third word-  at the request of the Minister, furnish him with such information as he requires in relation to the carrying out of a program approved under section 4. 
That does not indicate much co-operation; it indicates confrontation, pure and simple. I give notice at this stage of the debate,  Mr Speaker,  that in the other place we will be moving an amendment to clause 7 which will have the effect of making it possible for a State Minister at least to participate in discussions. We probably will add such words as: 'As he may reasonably require'- meaning the Federal Minister. We expect the Federal Minister to be reasonable about the matter. The Opposition believes that the clause, as presently worded, is a typical example of the way in which the present Labor Government is introducing its socialist and centralist philosophies- with a sugar-coated pill. 
We do not have to look very far to find other examples of what I would describe as State government bashing. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and his Party policies confirm that the Labor Party stands for the complete destruction of State governments. I should like to quote to the House- especially as the great man is herefrom a book written by the Prime Minister called 'Labor and the Constitution', in which he referred to the Constitution and the role of State members. The Prime Minister said: 
Much can be achieved by Labor members of the State Parliament in effectuating Labor's aims of more effective powers for the national Parliament and for local government. Their role is to bring about their own dissolution. 
What could be clearer than that? The Prime Minister and his Government subscribe to the destruction, the dissolution, of local government and State governments. Later I read an articleand I do not have the date of it- by the Labor Leader in the New South Wales Government in which he dealt with the question of what would happen if Labor were in government in New South Wales. He indicated that his Party would appoint watchdogs- that is the expression he used- to take part in the planning of local government administration.  Mr Wran  said: 
A State Labor government would place government officers in local councils to act as watchdogs on their planning and administration. 
Does the Minister for Urban and Regional Development regard this as an indication of friendly co-operation or, to use his words, 'cooperative federalism'? Those are simply standover tactics. 
Yes, progressive federalismthere is a delicate difference there. I quote briefly from what the Prime Minister said later at a local government assembly. He said: 
It is not true, as some persist in claiming that: 'It would be virtually impossible to make these changes now' - 
He is talking about changes to the local government and State government system-  and the real choice is between making a federal system work by giving the existing States the means to do their jobs, and starving the States into submission . . . 
Those are fairly direct words. The Prime Minister seeks to starve the States into submission. Quite frankly, these are the aspects of the Bill to which we object. I have sought the views of some of our colleagues in the State Parliaments and I quote now from what the Premier of Western Australia had to say about co-operative federalism.  Sir Charles  Court said: 
Our Government 's - 
That is the Western Australian Governmentexperience  of co-operative federalism is that it is not working. We would welcome the opportunity of being invited to consult as equals with the Commonwealth Government - 
Surely the second reading speech implies that this will happen-  in the formation of policy within which States and local government are expected to perform; in the creation of ground rules for the introduction of various programs. 
There is an urgent need for the Commonwealth Government to recognise our traditional constitutional responsibilities and act accordingly to ensure that the resource of people and material is not wasted as at present. 
That is the view of the Western Australian Premier. He went on to give his prescription of what should happen and we entirely endorse this. He said that at the moment there is a lack of cooperative federalism, yet the Minister says there is plenty. The Premier said that there is inadequate consultation through poor recognition of the part played by State and local governments. We know the Labor Party's view on this: He said there is duplication of effort and over-lapping of functions. We are reminded of this every day.  Sir Charles  Court went on to say: 
Because of the lack of real consultation, clear guidelines are not available and programs are not integrated. Despite the Western Australian Government and local authorities' direct messages to the honourable member Tom Uren M.H.R. expressing our opposition to the creation of statutory regions, the Minister and his colleagues are continuing with constant administrative and financial pressure towards this end. 
-This is the view of the Western Australian Government. It says the Minister is not really co-operating as he said in the second reading speech he would co-operate. 
-You are speaking on behalf of your Government and I am speaking on behalf of the Opposition. This is the view of the Western Australian Government. 
-I am glad to have that on the record. Not only non-Labor people but Labor people have told us that there is not much consultation at the ministerial level. They have indicated that there is consultation at the State officer level but not at the ministerial level. So we are putting these things on record. It is good to know that the Minister claims there is consultation at the ministerial level. The Victorian Government has similar views and I will not bore the House - 
The Minister seems to want to know the name of the spokesman.  Mr Hunt  is the spokesman for Victoria. What he says rather confirms what we are finding. He stated: 
The speech indicates - 
That is the Minister's speech-  that the legislation will give the Commonwealth the money to enter many areas which have, in the past, been the primary responsibility of the State Government. Although  Mr Uren  speaks of the legislation as setting - 
Once again we have the fancy words-  the seal on the concept and function of co-operative federalism in Australia it has been found in practice that the application of these moneys has not been made without strings attached. To bring the matter down to basics 'the man who pays the piper calls the tune '. 
The spokesman of the Victorian Government then went on to talk about possible amendments which should be made to the legislation. We believe that this Government is not the slightest bit concerned about the niceties of proper constitutional behaviour. I quote as an example,  Mr Speaker,  because this is an area with which you would be familiar, the recent purchase of the Glebe lands. I have placed several questions on notice, as has the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr 
Snedden), going back to early July which relate to some of these matters, but we cannot get any answer from the Minister. Perhaps he could tell us when he sums up today what constitutional power the Government had to buy the Glebe lands. 
The Minister might also like to comment on what is happening. in connection with the employment of staff to manage the Glebe lands. I would like to quote from an advertisement which appeared in the Press in the Glebe district just a few weeks ago. The advertisement was for the appointment of a community development officer. It stated: 
Applicants should have some relevant experience, a knowledge of inner city problems and a sensitivity for the social objectives of the project. Appropriate tertiary qualifications may help but organisational ability, a cheerful disposition with not a little humility, and the ability to communicate with a wide range of people are essential attributes. 
If that is not enough there was another advertisement for a project manager whose salary would be of the order of $1 1,000 to $1 1,500. Another advertisement was for an officer who would receive a salary of $17,000. 1 ask the Minister why it is necessary to have these highly paid officers or is this just the tip of the iceberg in the running of the affairs of the Glebe project. 
 I would also like the Minister to comment, because I cannot get an answer in any other way, about the Government's apparent acquisition of the Leyland land, plant, etc. I have placed questions on notice to the Minister himself and to two or three other Ministers in regard to this matter. I do not know whether he has been advised by his Department not to answer my questions or whether he is content to allow my questions to remain on the notice paper for ever or until the Parliament is dissolved. If we are to believe Press reports it appears that the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, who is sitting at the table, intends that the Leyland land at Zetland should be used for housing purposes. I believe that this intention is also supported by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  From the reports that we have heard of what has taken place in Cabinet and Caucus this assumption is probably correct. 
I would be interested to know myself. As the Minister for Urban and Regional Development will probably know, the Leyland factory is built on the old Victoria Park racecourse. As you,  Mr Speaker,  will know also, the racecourse was situated on a reclaimed swamp in which the static water level is somewhere about 18 inches. I believe that when the factory was being built enormous concrete foundations were sunk to depths of as much as 60 feet and that a great deal of pumping was needed to allow this work to take place. I believe also that there is still a water problem in the factory itself. I would like to know whether the land at Zetland is suitable for housing. I make the point that these things would not happen if the Goverment consulted closely with the States and considered their views. I would suspect that the Leyland purchase is not constitutional. The Minister might like to tell us something about this. 
There are other examples of the true intent of the Government's relationship with the States in the recent Northern Territory Lands Acquisition Bill which was literally bulldozed through this House one night last week. According to the report presented yesterday by the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory the Government is anxious to treat the Northern Territory as a State and wants to transfer State powers to the Northern Territory. The Minister may remember that the purpose of the amendment moved by the Opposition to the Northern Territory Lands Acquisition Bill- I hope,  Mr Speaker,  that I am keeping within the Standing Orders in referring to this legislation because it has passed through this House- was to refer the legislation to the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. However, the Government refused to do this. The purpose of the Bill is to take away from local authorities and individuals the right to appeal in cases where the Minister's Department comes in and takes over land. So  this  business of cooperation and co-operative federalism- or as one of my colleagues said 'progressive federalism '-is not really happening in practice. I trust that the next time the Minister produces a second reading speech he will include in it some of the barbs that are contained in the Bill to which it relates. 
Another piece of legislation was put through this House last week in connection with the Commonwealth-State Housing Agreement. Once again the Opposition co-operated and this legislation was urgently put through the House. However, the State housing Ministers are not happy with the terms imposed on them by that legislation. In fact the Victorian Minister walked out of a conference with other Ministers because of the treatment - 
A report in the Melbourne 'Age' of 26 October stated that  Mr Dickie,  the Victorian Minister, said that Victoria had signed the Federal-State Housing Agreement with a gun at its head loaded with a threat of high interest rates. 
That is legislation which we have just put through this House. 
Of course it is not part of this legislation. I am giving an example of the treatment that the Minister's Government is meting out to the States, and that is all we are concerned about in the legislation before us. 
I have given the Minister a few examples. I will show him these things afterwards if he does not believe me. I think it is fair to ask what would we do if we were in government. We would seek to achieve agreement with the State governments in principle. We would want to consult with them and let them spend the money and do the work according to their own priorities. I have already expressed concern about the way we believe money is being wasted in the Department. I would refer in passing to the development of Monarto in South Australia because we believe it is highly unlikely that this regional centre will ever get off the ground. A great deal of money has been wasted on that project already. The amount involved is over $8m. I draw the attention of the Minister to a report which was tabled in this House on 28 September by 2 visiting academics commissioned by his Department. They supported this view that Monarto is in the wrong place and will not in the future be a growth centre. We are talking about enormous amounts of money that are being wasted. We believe that the money to be spent on Monarto could have been spent today in other areas within Adelaide itself to improve- the Minister is always talking about this- the quality of life. There will probably never be any suburb, any growth centre or anything at Monarto- certainly not in our lifetime. I do not want to waste the time of the House by going over the same points. 
I want to refer briefly- as a mild criticism- to the Report of the Auditor-General. On page 200 of that report when dealing with the accounting of the Department of Urban and Regional Development, in 3.22.1 the Auditor-General stated that audit test checks for last year disclosed a number of over-payments which related to payment of travelling allowance to officers in excess of entitlements, payment of disturbance allowance to ineligible officers and incorrect payments in respect of travel by air. 
I should like to speak briefly to this particular clause. I thank the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  for this example of friendly cooperation. It was our intention, as the Minister said, to move in another place that certain words be added to this clause which would ensure that the interests and the feelings of State governments would be protected in the interests of sweet reasonableness. To facilitate the passage of this Bill the Minister has said that the Government will agree to delete this clause altogether. The only way in which that can be done, of course, is for the Opposition and the Government to vote against the clause. We propose to do that. I do not think there will be any further need to discuss any other clauses of the Bill. 
Clause negatived. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 

 -Mr Chairman, I crave your indulgence to expedite the passage of this Bill. The Opposition has facilitated the passage of the Bill by agreeing to take the first 5 clauses together. We had two or three speakers who wished to take part in the debate. I suggest that the reason we are being involved in this tedious delay is no fault of the Opposition but the sheer bloodymindedness of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly).  I do not wish to - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
The Committee does not have a question before it yet. 
Can I finish? 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
-In general terms the Opposition supports the provisions of this legislation as they apply to ex:servicemen who served in the Second World War. We acknowledge that discrimination did exist against single men and widowers. Honourable members on this side of the House are pleased that the Government has recognised this deficiency in the old Act and has taken steps to rectify it. We also support the provisions in the Bill which make it possible for mortgages to be transferred from one home to another in the special circumstances described in the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  No doubt all honourable members have seen cases involving medical or other hardships such as the transfer of a mortgagee from one State to another or from one part of a State to another part of a State through circumstances, to quote the Minister, 'beyond his control'. These new provisions will ensure that such persons will not lose the very real benefit of a defence service homes loan. They will also continue to protect the legislation from abuse. The Opposition believes that there must never be any trading in property flowing from this legislation. This is purely and simply a repatriation benefit for services rendered to the nation. 
We also support the hardship clauses which empower the Minister to grant a measure of relief to persons in difficulty as a result of a higher rate of interest applying to the increased mortgage limit. We note, in passing, that the Labor Party seems to hold a different view in government to some of the views that it held in Opposition. The power of the Minister to intervene in such matters is a typical example. I should like to quote from the Hansard debates of November 1971. I should like, in particular, to refer to some of the remarks of the present Minister for Housing and Construction when in Opposition. On page 3830 of the Hansard of November 1971, when discussing the War Services Homes Bill, the present Minister is reported as follows: 
People do not want to be subjected to the bureacracy - 
I am sure he will remember making these comments 
Or the goodwill of a Minister or anybody else, and here I believe there is an obligation on the pan of the Government to look at the basic requirement of these people who can be in most distressing circumstances. 

 His colleague, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had something similar to say on this issue. At page 3813 of Hansard of the same date he is reported as having said: 
There have been many restrictions on eligibility for war service homes. These restrictions were brought in by administrative action. The first lot were introduced in the credit squeeze of 1951. The second lot were brought in during the credit squeeze of 1 96 1 . Both rationing schemes are still there. 
As an aside I think I must say that they are still here now. The present Prime Minister then referred to an amendment that was moved by the honourable member for Reid who is now the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  which was seconded by the present Minister for Housing and Construction. The Prime Minister said further 
The amendments that the honourable member for Reid has proposed are designed to see that restrictions on the entitlement to war service homes are not brought in by Ministerial action and that at least the Parliament can pass upon restrictions which are imposed. 
He went on to say- and I agree with him: 
Surely we have reached the stage where we can enlarge the entitlement to war service homes. 
The Minister interjects, fairly, that the Government has done that. Earlier in my speech I paid a tribute to the Government which has done a great deal in this legislation. But members of the Government, when in Opposition, said they would do a great deal more. Now that they have the power to do these things, they are not happening. I do not know how much one should labour the point but on the same date the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development moved an amendment to our legislation which incorporated the remarks that I have just quoted. I do not wish to waste the time of the House by reading them again. I wonder why it is that the present Government does not enlarge the entitlement to war service homes. In this particular Bill we have seen other examples of ministerial powers introduced and sponsored by the Minister which are in absolute contradiction to views expressed by members of the Government when in Opposition. 
The Government also proposes to lift the upper limit of a war service loan or a defence service home loan from $12,000 to $15,000 and charge a higher rate of interest on the $3,000 increase. The rate of interest will be 7!4 per cent. I understand- the Minister might care to confirm this although I believe that it is a fact- that it is the intention of the Government to reduce the term of the loans from 45 to 32 years. Although the Minister confirms this, I do not think that I can find it anywhere in the second reading speech or in the Bill. But I understand that that is the intention of the Government. The combination of the higher interest rates and a shorter term will obviously mean higher monthly repayments. I have worked out that on a loan of $12,000 at the old rate of 3% per cent over 32 years, the monthly repayment would be  $53.70  a month. Using the additional  $3,000-1  would think just about everybody will be doing that- at the rate of  TA  per cent, an extra payment will be required of  $20.12.  According to my calculations this will mean a total repayment of  $73.82  a month. Certainly those who are making additions will use the additional  $3,000. 
We on this side of the House have mixed feelings about the increased rate of interest which is to apply to the upper limits of ex-service loans as a result of this legislation. I believe that my colleague, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will be moving an amendment, on his own behalf, in the committee stage of the debate. We recognise that  7%  per cent is definitely a concessional rate of interest. In fact, the defence services homes mortgagor on the maximum loan is being subsidised by as much as  8V4  per cent on most of the advance and by  4%  per cent on the balance, which I believe is a saving of about  $1,000  a year when compared to most others in the community- perhaps to people buying a home through a bank of through a co-operative permanent building society. 
The problem is that every time the Government tinkers with interest rates it creates anomalies. We saw that happen last week in the debate on the concessional rate for what is called the 'low income earner' in relation to the welfare housing agreement. I should like to mention at this stage- I have mentioned it before- that there is becoming a real jungle of interest rates. At the moment we have a concessional rate of  5V6  per cent on the Commonwealth State Housing Agreement - 
The recipient is being charged  5  lh  per cent. On the second concessional rate, at least through the Savings Bank of South Australia, there is a 6% per cent interest rate and the private banks are charging  10  to  11 'A  per cent. 
As my colleague said, it is a real mess. I believe that the interest structure in Australia can only be described as a jungle. One is lucky to borrow from the banks at  10  per cent or  1 1  Vi  per cent, according to whether one is going to live in the home and according to the value of the home. The Commonwealth Bank, at its most favoured rate, lends at  9V*  per cent. The co-operatives lend at  1  W*  per cent to  12  per cent, depending on the State in which one lives. It is less than that in South Australia. Bridging finance ranges at the moment- if one can get hold of it- from  9Yi  per cent to  24  per cent. 
The point I am trying to make is that every time we introduce a new interest rate into the interest structure we only add to the jungle and to the discrimination. 
I was drawing the attention of the House to the fact that we have  7  or  8  different rates in the market place. Now we have  9  or  10  different rates, whichever way one counts, by introducing this new rate of  714  per cent. I am not denying that it is a concessional rate. I am saying that it is. But it is interfering with the whole rate structure that we have in the country at the moment. In the present legislation the Government is really saying that the old war service homes rate of  3%  per cent is never likely to move past an advance of  $12,000.  A modest home, I suggest, in  5  or 6 years time, at the present rate of inflation will cost  $100,000-  or some astronomical figure. The maximum first mortgage available to ex-servicemen will still be only $  12,000  at  3%  per cent. Presumably, the balance will be payable at this concessional rate which is  2  per cent below the most favoured rate. The point that I make here is that at some time in the future exservicemen will be disadvantaged to the extent that the biggest amount of money they will have to find will not be for the mortgage, first or second, but for the deposit. They will not be in any different situation- 
Something will happen, I am sure, because we will be re-elected as the Government and we will put some common sense back into the interest rate structure. I believe that in a neat way this is how the Government is working up to kill its obligation to exservicemen. It is an absolute repudiation - 
I have no evidence of that. 
I propose to quote from some of his speeches in a moment but they do not show that he discriminates against ex-servicemen. They do show that he believed in certain things when in Opposition and now, when he has the power in government, he has suddenly forgotten all the things that he believed in when in Opposition. 
-I turn to page 3809 of Hansard of 30 November 1971. At this time, the equivalent Bill to this Bill- then the War Service Homes Bill- was being debated in the Parliament. In fact, the Minister at the table was at that time the honourable member for Hughes. 
-He still is. Referring to the Australian Labor Party policy he said that a Labor Government would: 
Enable the Commonwealth Bank and the War Service Homes Division to lend up to 100 per cent of the value of properties against which their advances are made. 
He then said a few other things which I will not waste the time of the House quoting. He went on to say that the Labor Party policies would: extend the purpose for which additional and supplementary war service homes advances can be made. He then said in the debate: 
If what I have read out to the Committee is our policy, surely it means that it is our primary intention to extend the scheme to additional categories of servicemen; surely it must mean that it is our primary intention- 
I hope that the Minister has not retreated from that position because not even the Minister for Housing and Construction could believe that $15,000 or even $20,000 represents anywhere near 100 per cent of the cost of buying or building a house today. The director of the Defence Service Homes Division noted in his annual report that the cost of building a house for the Division had increased by more than $5,000 in the last year. This is in just one year. This indicates to me that the cost could be quite substantially more than that in the current year. I also want to remind the Minister of the amendment that he supported in regard to similar legislation when he was the honourable member for Hughes in Opposition. He actually seconded the motion moved by the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  It happened exactly 3 years ago this week. It is reported on page 3819 of Hansard of 30 November 1971 that the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  moved at that time what amounted to an increase in the value of an advance from $8,000, not to $9,000 as we in Government were legislating for, but to $15,000. I will quote what the present Minister for Urban and Regional Development had to say about that because we have an amendment to move along those lines ourselves. It is entirely consistent with what we did in government. The present Minister for Urban and Regional Development said at that time: 
We are asking honourable members opposite to vote for our amendment to increase the loan from $9,000 to $ 1 5,000. This is not simply something that has been pulled out of a hat. This is the policy of our Party. This was accepted by the last Labor Party conference, held at Launceston, and this action was taken after an evaluation of the whole situation in regard to housing costs with a view to finding a realistic level of costs. 
He went on to make a few remarks that are entirely relevant in today's conditions. He said, and I remind honourable members that he was then in Opposition: 
This Government has allowed inflation to run rampant, has allowed the price of land to increase and the cost of housing to increase. 
This was said on 30 November 1971 when inflation was running at about 4 per cent per annum. I believe that the inflation rate today is approximately 25 per cent. 
I am inclined to agree with the then honourable member and I say that this Government is responsible for this problem.  Mr Uren  also said: 
The rising cost of dwellings and of land is one of the greatest of the crimes that can be attributed to this Government. 
On behalf of the Opposition I now throw that statement back at the present Government. The honourable member for Reid then referred to some figures- he was spokesman on housing matters at that time- prepared by the Parliamentary Library to show that the average cost of a dwelling in New South Wales was almost $15,000. He stated that the amount of the mortgage should be $15,000-not $12,000-because the Labor Party believed in financing 100 per cent of the mortgage. I have obtained from the same source, the Parliamentary Library, a continuation of these figures. They show that the average cost of a dwelling in New South Walesthis was the case cited by the honourable member then- has increased by almost 50 per cent. 
-By half, from $15,000 at the time he was talking about in 1971 to nearly $22,000 today. The Opposition therefore intends to move an amendment which will be consistent with our responsible view in government, that is, that the amount of the advance should be increased to $ 1 8,000. At least this will retain the  value of the money available to ex-servicemen. With the agreement of the Minister, I would like to have this chart incorporated in the Hansard record. It shows the continuation of the position cited by the honourable member for Reid in 1971. 
-The Opposition is in general support of this legislation, which seeks to appropriate an amount of $ 150m to be advanced through the banking system to assist the housing industry. The Opposition has in fact- and I am sure the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  will acknowledge this- facilitated the rapid passage of the legislation because it recognises that the home building industry in particular, out of all industries, is at the point of destruction. At the same time, the Opposition believes that this amount of $ 150m has come too late to be of any real use to the industry. We believe that it is too little and too late. Most builders have little or no work on hand and all of them face enormous wage commitments which must be settled before Christmas. Unemployment is currently running at 1 ,000 increase a day in this country, 3 per cent of the workforce, which is the highest in 30 years. 
This $150m, if it is all used on new housing, represents the construction of only about 7,500 homes, and that represents a little more than half of one month's supply in normal times. Figures released only today by the Bureau of Statistics show that building approvals in Australia have declined seriously since last October. It is depressing to note- it must be depressing to all of us- that the approval rate has fallen by almost 50 per cent in the 12 months to the end of October. This confirms what the Opposition has been consistently warning the Government of for months, that the .current shortfall of dwellings of all sorts in this country at this moment is in excess of 50,000. We believe that in the short term there will not be any improvement and we could be stuck with a shortfall of over 100,000 homes by this time next year. In the meantime the building industry will have suffered so much damage as to be incapable of producing Australia's annual requirements, much less of making up this tremendous shortfall. We believe that this enormous shortfall, combined with the anticipated increase in money supply, will create next year a demand inflation, a gross shortage of living accommodation and galloping inflation. At this stage I should like to mention a couple of policy promises made by the Prime Minister which have been broken. In particular, I go back only 2 years to the policy speech he made in 1972, when he said: 
The inability to provide housing for those who need it most threatens to reach crisis proportion. 
That is really quite ridiculous. We are talking about the situation 2 years ago. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
We - 
This is the Labor Party in government - will make a massive attack on housing and land costs. 
It has not done too well. The costs of land and housing are escalating at a rate in excess of 25 per cent a year. I was interested to read only a few days ago, on 16 November, that in New South Wales alone more than 35,000 families are now waiting for Housing Commission homes, which is a 25 per cent jump in applications in 4 months. It is believed, and no doubt it is true, that the 7,000 extra families added to the list are casualties of the credit squeeze. So much for the Prime Minister's policy speech. 
At the same time, shortly after the election I was interested to note what the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  said, which I thought was priceless. The Minister is not in the House at the moment. He said, amongst a lot of other priceless things that he has said: 
The Government will not reduce interest rates until inflation is defeated. 
When the Liberal-Country Party Government went out of office inflation was running at about 4 per cent annually. We believe it is now 22% per cent and, if we can take any notice of the Minister for Housing and Contruction this means that Australia will have high and perhaps increasing interest rates as long as it has a Labor Government. 
I also refer the Treasurer and the House to what I thought was a very interesting report by the  Chairman  of Simpson Pope Holdings Ltd in South Australia in which he coined a new word'slumpflation', which he said describes a state of affairs where production falls, unemployment rises and inflation goes on. Once again I should refer to the statement by the Prime Minister in May of this year- not so very long ago. At a Press conference in Hobart on 1 May the Prime Minister had this to say about interest rates: 
I am encouraged to say that interest rates will not have to go up because the figures for the consumer price index last 
Thursday showed that we have turned the corner. Our policies against inflation have succeeded. There was a third reduction in the rate of inflation for the March quarter. 
We all know that the current rate is the highest rate of inflation Australia has ever had. 
The Opposition is also critical of the Government's action in not making at least some of this money available to the co-operative permanent building societies and in not ensuring that every cent, or certainly the greater part of the money, will be spent on new housing. We believe that this is the only way that this relatively small amount of money can do anything to really help the home building industry. We also believe that the Government would have got total cooperation from the co-operative permanent building societies and that the funds could have been distributed quickly and cheaply right throughout this industry, which is Australia-wide. In addition, this would have been a measure of practical government support for building societies. I really commend this suggestion most sincerely to the Treasurer, because it would demonstrate the Government's confidence in this important home financing industry and therefore its confidence in the Australian investing public. The Opposition makes the point that the permanent building societies have made a major contribution to Australian home ownership over the years. In fact in Western Australia, taking that State as an example, more than 60 per cent of home finance has been provided by the cooperative permanent building societies. I shall quote from a letter that I have received from an officer of one of the societies. I think the letter makes a valid point that the Government seems to have overlooked. The officer refers to his own society's situation and he states: 
Already we have had requests from Trading/Savings Banks for payout figures on loans made by us to various partiesincluding . . . solicitors. The banks concerned have openly said that in anticipation of receipt of these monies they are happy to take over these loans right now with a view to cementing existing and attracting new 'Trust account' collections .... Money destined for new housing to alleviate unemployment is obviously not being applied in its policy terms in these cases. 
He goes on to say: 
Moreover, the Commonwealth Savings Bank has in several cases insisted on relatives - 
I have heard of this in other cases too -  as remote as aunts and uncles withdrawing money from permanent building societies and transferring it to the Commonwealth Savings Bank as an express condition to granting a loan to a particular party. 
This makes me ask the Treasurer- and I am sure that he is paying careful attention: What does the Government have against building societies? I want to give the Treasurer a pretty good example of what has been happening. In Western Australia some building societies have been in existence for more than 100 years; at least one bank has been in existence for only 5 years. So the bunding societies really are the true pioneers in home finance. 
We on this side of the House have had considerable concern during the short period of 2 years that the Labor Government has been in office about the behaviour of the Minister for Housing and Construction. We believe that like Nero he has fiddled and fumbled while hundreds of home builders as well as many large Australian owned construction and development companies have gone to the wall. In Victoria alone it is estimated that since January nearly 100 home building companies have left the industry and at least 20 bigger companies- by this I mean companies which construct from ten up to 300 houses a year- are in liquidation voluntarily or else they are bankrupt. When will the Government realise that it should be encouraging investment in the private sector and that it is private investment which creates employment. The present rate of 5,000 a week increase in the unemployed is a direct result of the Government's squeezing the private sector and at the same time spending money itself as though it is going out of fashion. 
I refer again to what has been said by the Prime Minister. When addressing the Perth Press Club in December 1973, when referring to unemployment- this is another one of his broken promises- he said: 
There was no need for us to promise that we wouldn't put people out of work. People expected that the Labor Government would not put people out of work but these methods of putting up taxes and putting people out of work reduce the amount of money that people would have to spend- reducing the amount of money people have to invest. These have been used in the past- they have halted inflation temporarily and then when things have relaxed it has recurred. 
There is no doubt about what is happening to employment in the building industry because in the building industry alone in September 4,000 people went on to the employment market. 
Young people, particularly those who apply for apprenticeships in the building industry- an area of great concern to the Opposition- are actually being turned away. In Western Australia, and I believe in Queensland, men who have been retrained at Government expense as bricklayers are actually now being put off. Also, 2 training schools for bricklayers in Western Australia have been closed. An estimated 60 per cent of bricklaying teams employed on housing last year have been laid off. The loss of highly trained technical professionals will damage the industry severely in the long term. An estimated 700 supervisors, estimators, architects, draughtsmen and people of that quality have been laid off in Western Australia. The figure must run into thousands on a national basis. Without doubt many of these people will never return to the building industry. Some are even leaving the country, and one can hardly blame them. 
I put it to the Treasurer: Why does not the Government ensure that some reasonable percentage of public works is channelled through private architects and engineering partnerships? 
I am pleased to have that on the record,  Mr Speaker,  because this is something about which we feel very strongly. Private enterprise is there to help. But there are men and women who have the professional and technical skills who are apparently not being used. I would like to quote for the benefit of the House, particularly the Treasurer, from a survey which was carried out within the private sector of the architectural and engineering professions in Victoria. The survey which was carried out about 2 months ago came to the following conclusions: 
The survey has confirmed the seriousness of the position and in addition, the conclusions which can be drawn from it indicate that unless there is an almost immediate easing of the pressures restraining the flow of work, it may be impossible to avoid consequences for the building industry which are far more severe than any effects at present anticipated or previously experienced. 
That was conservatively put. I take it that the Treasurer is saying that the associations of these professions should come to him or to the Minister for Housing and Construction and that the Government will be pleased to give people the opportunity to work privately on public works. I trust that that will become well known throughouut the community because all levels of private enterprise are thoroughly sick and tired of Government interference through the agency of the various Government tribunals and commissions - 
Or through Government taxes or Government criticism. The honourable gentleman who interjects made great play last night- I think I can quote him accurately- about the business capacity of members on this side of the House. The honourable member said that there are very few on our side of the House who know anything about running a business. I could tell him that there are many on this side who know plenty about running a business. One is running a business whether one is a lawyer, doctor or whatever. That is tougher than flogging a few shirts and ties, which is what the honourable gentleman does. 
The Opposition, on behalf of private enterprise, objects to these things. There is a deal of Government red tape and endless form filling. Legislation was introduced a couple of days ago to provide for deductibility of interest mortgage payments. This scheme will impose more work on private enterprise, companies, businesses and partnerships. I would think that the problems facing the building industry have never been worse. The  Chairman  of one of the biggest brick manufacturing companies in Victoria said about a month ago, according to a Press report: 
Make no mistake about it. It's every bit as grim as 1 930. 
It is curious too, that on the same day our everoptimistic Minister for Housing and Construction announced that the Government was embarking- and he uses these expressions continuously 'on a mulitfaceted program to maintain a high level of activity in the building industry'. He has followed this statement with many other announcements about the large money releases. The provisions contained in the Bill we are now discussing were leaked in one of his cheerful Press announcements before the event. In fact, it was leaked inaccurately. In another Press release the Minister said that he had 'friendly' talks with the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  He said that he had had 'friendly' talks with the Treasurer. I would have liked to have been a fly on the wall. He says he talks to industry and so on. The Minister has now acknowledged that there are problems in the building industry about which industry spokesmen and members of the Opposition have been warning him for months. The Minister irritates us intensely when he now goes on to say that the problems are there but they are not in any way his fault. He claims that he is quoting sources very close to the industry. I say that is utter humbug. The Minister has consistently ignored every item of industry advice. He has even gone so far as to abuse publicly the Housing Industry Association in Western Australia. The Minister says that all of these terrible things are not his fault- it is the Treasurer's fault; he is the one to blame. I say that is a very poor reflection on his attitude to Party loyalty and Cabinet solidarity. But I am quite sure that after the treatment meted out to the Treasurer in recent times from his colleagues he has become accustomed to this. In New South Wales, the Leader of the State Parliamentary Labor Party,  Mr Wran,  only last 
Monday called for reduced housing interest rates. He said: 
The housing construction industry in New South Wales is in a desperate plight. 
We believe that  Mr Wran  is absolutely correct. We also believe that the Government's policies have all but wrecked the housing industry in every State of the Commonwealth. In real terms, nearly half of the housing industry will be wiped out next year and nearly one-third of the. commercial and industrial section will have disappeared by this time next year. The Government should consider the gigantic shock-waves already spreading throughout the economy following its attack on the building industry. 
But the industry is faced with even more urgent problems of maintaining liquidity right now. Next month, the trading banks will need to roll over $1,200 billion of certificates of deposit. Building contractors will be faced with quarterly tax payments and annual leave payments in addition to the  7Vi  per cent loading on leave payments. Perhaps the Treasurer will be able to tell us in his reply where the money will come from and what Government initiatives will assist the builders in the December pre-Christmas crunch. We believe that thousands more Australians will be spending an unemployed and unhappy Christmas as a direct result of this Government's economic mismanagement. 
The recent financial arrangement with the States is of little help to low income earners because it does nothing to bridge the gap between the first mortgage and the price of housing. Assuming that a home seeker is able to find the deposit of, say, $2,000 to purchase a modest dwelling costing about $20,000-1 do not think that a dwelling at that price would be availablevery few people at the income level of 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the average weekly wage would be able to bridge the deposit gap which in these circumstances will be $8,000. For example, it is iniquitous that in South Australia where 90 per cent of the average wage is $109.50, one person can borrow money at 5% per cent interest and his neighbour who is earning 50c a week more is not able to borrow at that concessional rate and would have to borrow, in South Australia at any rate, at an interest rate of perhaps 1 1V4 per cent to 12 per cent. As every week goes by the position is exacerbated by the rising cost of building. The cost alone applied to a house valued at, say, $25,000 is still escalating at more than $125 a week. In Victoria, it is escalating at $134 a week, which is $5 over the average weekly wage. The States are raising the means test limit for housing commission applicants to $1 10 a week and the co-operative housing societies are increasing their means test to $130 a week. But it is simply not possible for the States to do more than hold the position. 
It is Federal Government action which has inflated building costs and it is Federal Government action which has created the highest interest rates on record. This has most seriously disadvantaged the middle income group, which includes those in receipt of the average weekly wage of, say $160 a week up to $180 a week. This has conveniently been ignored by the Minister for Housing and Construction and by the whole of his Government. Such people could hardly be described as wealthy people. But they are ineligible for Govement subsidised mortgage payments. Let me take the example of a home seeker earning a few dollars over the average weekly wage and seeking to purchase a modest house costing, say, $25,000. Last year that person would have been able to borrow 90 per cent of the value of the home from one of the various lending institutions and, on that salary, he would have been able to service the loan quite comfortably. Today, that same home seeker needs a 20 per cent deposit and because the interest rate established by this Government on a first mortgage is 12 per cent- if it is available- the monthy repayments are now $233. To be able to service such a loan, the general formula is that the borrower's repayments must not exceed one-quarter of his monthly gross income. So to obtain the necessary finance that person would need an income in excess of $230 a week. His income may be increasing, as the Treasurer suggests, by  22Vi  per cent during this year, but his tax will increase by 50 per cent. Therefore, saving is quite impossible and it is equally impossible to bridge the deposit gap. 
It is not an over-simplification to say that this Government's policies are making home ownership of any type, whether it be a home, a home unit, a cluster home or a strata title dwelling, achieveable only for those on high incomes. This Government cares nothing for those it purports to represent, that is, those in receipt of low and middle incomes. What is the good of having large numbers of low income earners with $12,000 mortgages in their pockets and no roof over their heads because they cannot bridge the ever-widening deposit gap the emphasis of the Liberal-Country Party housing policy is to assist all Australians who desire it to own their own living units. We acknowledge that in today's society an increasing number of people prefer to rent their living accommodation. But the Labor Government's policy is resulting in a serious shortage of flat accommodation and significantly increased rentals. There is nothing in the Labor Party platform to encourage home ownership. 
The Government's policies are especially discriminatory against young people and first home buyers who have to live somewhere. Such people are now forced to look for rental accommodation. The Minister for Housing and Construction has claimed that all will be well by Christmas. The Opposition believes that unemployment and the crisis situation in the home building industry will be worse by Christmas and that it will deteriorate even further in the New Year, especially in the Australian Capital Territory where conditions are worse than anywhere else in the country and where this inept Government has absolute and total totalitarian style powers. We fear that the Minister for Housing and Construction is incapable of handling his responsibilities. He has demonstrated that when the crunch comes he backs off and blames other Ministers for the bad news. On this occasion he has blamed the Treasurer. 
As recently as the fourth of this month he was talking of the buoyant situation in the building industry and the possibility that it could change to one of 'under-utilisation' unless corrective action was taken. After his discussions 3 weeks ago with the Treasure he solemnly announced, and I quote him again: 'This action has now been taken'. Yet, within a fortnight, suddenly there is big trouble. He says that it is not his fault. He said that it was the poor old Treasurer's fault. The Minister hardly deserves a place in the Government team, even as a trainer. Perhaps the Government should be shifting him aside rather than the Treasurer. We believe that the Government should cut back Government spending, significantly reduce direct and indirect taxes and positively encourage thrift and private investment instead of positively discouraging them in the community. It should take immediate steps to ease the credit squeeze. Summing up for the Opposition I state that we are not opposing the legislation. I believe that one of my colleagues will be moving 2 amendments which the Government, through the Treasurer, has indicated that it will accept. We do not oppose the Bill. 
-The Opposition supports this legislation which seeks to make available to the States non-matching advances for the purpose of building houses for pensioners. In fact, this legislation represents a renewal in a sense of legislation which we introduced while in government in 1969. On that occasion the legislation provided for $5m to be made available to the States for these purposes for a period of 5 years. This Bill seeks to make available $10m a year for 3 years. It expands the eligibility of persons for pensioner dwellings on a rental basis. We support the expansion of the scheme. When we introduced the legislation in 1969 it was called the States Grants (Dwellings for Aged Pensioners) Bill. On this occasion the title of the Bill leaves out the word 'aged'. This is because the present legislation seeks to include single age pensioners, single pensioners without dependants who are eligible for supplementary assistance, invalid pensioners, Service pensioners who are unemployable or suffering from tuberculosis, and class B widow pensioners. We support all these "measures. We make the point that basically this is our legislation in any case. As a matter of interest I would like to table a completely apolitical table which compares the populations in the States of Australia with the distribution of this finance to the various States. For example, it is interesting to note that New South Wales which has 36.4 per cent of the Australian population recieved 40 per cent of the money under this Bill. That is the table and I ask - 
In the first place let me congratulate the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on the Australian Capital Territory, for bringing this matter to the attention of the House. It is very important and I am pleased to be associated with him and to be taking part in drawing the attention of the House to the housing deficiencies that exist in the Australian Capital Territory, as I am the Opposition's spokesman on housing. I listened carefully to what the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  had to say. I was interested to hear him list amongst his achievements a heated swimming pool somewhere in the Australian Capital Territory. Nobody can live in a heated swimming pool. It is housing that is the big deficiency in the Australian Capital Territory. Only yesterday I spoke to a Commonwealth public servant here who is forced to live in a caravan park. It costs him $20 a week just for the space plus power. He has to provide his own caravan. 
What the Opposition is saying is that the difficulties which young people endure in trying to secure accommodation here have been compounded by this Minister and by his predecessor in the 2 years of Labor administration. The Government has given preference to building office accommodation for its public servants rather than living accommodation. The honourable member for Corangamite and I put out a release a month or so ago in which we made the point that the Government has started a 3-year $80m program to provide office accommodation for, I think, 12,000 public servants, but this year's housing target is only 1 ,400 units. That is a reduction from the 1,550 provided last year. 
The Minister always wants to talk about how many millions of dollars are involved. What he does not realise is that with the present rate of inflation money is becoming of less value and the millions he quotes today will be worth only thousands next year. I suggest that the Minister should examine the Commonwealth hostels in Canberra as he travels around during the weekends. Conditions in these hostels vary from barely tolerable to downright disgraceful. I have attended meetings and have eaten meals at these hostels. I spent 10 years of my school life as a boarder. At that time I thought the accommodation in the boarding school was rather spartan but I realise now that it was vastly superior to the accommodation provided by this Government at some of its hostels in Canberra. Commonwealth public servants have no choice; they have to come to Canberra to work and must live here or near Canberra. The Opposition believes that the Government has an obligation to provide decent accommodation for its employees but this Government is, in a sense, exploiting its employees. 
Labor policies have created the highest escalation in building cost since Federation, a grave shortage of houses, flats and units both for sale and for rental, and the most unsatisfactory and yet expensive boarding house type of accommodation in Australia. My recollection is that the tariffs for hostel accommodation in Canberra have increased by 55 per cent in the last 12 months. The establishment of the fair rents board, or whatever it is called here, has further diminished the chances of Canberra people obtaining rental accommodation. Home owners are not encouraged to let their houses at the rentals assessed by this board- rentals which frequently do not even cover the cost of servicing present high interest charges. The interest rates prevailing today are the highest in Australia's history. This situation was desperately created by the Labor Government which claims, I believe falsely, to be a low interest party. The Government recently introduced a concessional interest rate scheme for home buyers. This concessional rate is determined on a proportion, I think 90 per cent, of the average wage. As a result of this ordinance a public servant or anybody else in the Australian Capital Territory receiving a salary of $136 a week is entitled to a concessional interest rate of 5  Vt  per cent. If his friend is earning $ 1 3 7 a week, or $1 more, he will be liable to pay  9lA  per cent interest. On a weekly basis this means that the penalty for the first person increasing his income by $1 a week from $136 to $137 is $15 a week in increased interest. Of course this removes the incentive for people to improve their situation. 
Against all this confused background of Government control and Government incompetence, which has left Canberra with a grave shortage of accommodation, there is now revealed the positively shameful behaviour of the Attorney-General.  Senator Murphy  has sought to break all the rules and in a most improper way to wangle for a friend- a business associate I believe- the top position on the waiting list for one-bedroom flats in the Australian Capital Territory. The waiting time for these flats at present is slightly more than 5 years. It would be 105 years if all those who are eligible to apply did apply and thought they had any chance of obtaining one in their lifetime. There is also a means test applied to applicants for this accommodation. Anyone earning more than $110 a week gross is ineligible for a government flat. In spite of these provisions, not only the AttorneyGeneral but also the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and the former Minister for Immigration are falling over each other to secure for this young lady, a Miss Morosi, subsidised government accommodation. 
Of course it is. A person cannot go to the private sector and get this sort of accommodation for what the Government is charging. 
-That is not so. This is all the more reprehensible and I am surprised at the Minister for defending it when we consider this person's salary. 
Of course it is. We are dealing with low cost accommodation in Canberra, and I am making the point that here is someone on a high salary who has been appointed by I do not know whom - 
It is, because young people are on the waiting list for these flats. This is the reason why we altered the motion. The Deputy 
Prime Minister came into the House after question time and said that this young lady's salaryshe is a young person- was not $17,000 but $12,200, plus overtime and presumably plus fringe benefits. I know that there are private secretaries employed in this place who are earning $23,000 a year. I wonder whether the fringe benefits include the appointment of her husband to the Film Censorship Board at $1,000 a year. I wonder whether the Minister will tell us what qualifications her husband possesses. What has happened to the Government's professed concern for the lower income groups- the widows, deserted wives and those whose only hope of obtaining accommodation is through government housing? I know that the Minister had received a letter from the  President  of the Single Mothers Association, I think it is called, expressing concern that none of her members can get accommodation because this sort of thing is taking place. I think the Australain public is entitled to know all the interesting details. 
The Minister suggests that what I have said is not true. Let us know the truth of this whole affair. It already smacks of bourgeois political patronage. For example, which office does employ Miss Morosi? First we heard that she was to be the Deputy Prime Minister's private secretary, but only last night - 
-The Minister says - 
These facts may be unpalatable to the Minister and to the Government but they are entirely relevant to the motion, which the Opposition altered last night so that they would be. The position is that someone is being given an unearned priority which means that someone else will be unable to get accommodation of the type I have mentioned. If that is not relevant to the motion, I do not know what is. I think we are entitled to know the position.  Senator Murphy  wrote a letter to the Minister for the Capital Territory and I seek permission to table it. May I have permission from the Minister? 
-The Attorney-General said that Miss Morosi 's work was extremely important in the field of human rights. 
Yes. 
The Minister has changed his mind. I do not know why. 
The Minister does not need to help the  Deputy Speaker.  He knows how to run this place. This letter is entirely relevant. In it  Senator Murphy  said that Miss Morosi 's work was extremely important in the field of human rights, yet within a week she is to leave this job. This work is to be abandoned and her skills will be used in the office of the incoming Treasurer. Last night I appeared on 'This Day Tonight' and was followed by  Mr Grassby.  He said- I quote precisely- in referring to this young lady: 
She joined me on 1 September. She is still working for me. 
I emphasise that this was said last night.  Mr Grassby  was asked: 'Is she going to the Treasury?' He said: 'I could not tell you that, Richard.' So the story continues. We do not know what has happened. I believe that the appointment of  Mr Grassby  as $25,000 a year community development officer, or whatever his title is, is in itself a sickening example of jobs for the boys. Many Australians are wondering whether we have seen only the tip of the iceberg. This Government, which delights in establishing royal commissions and committees of inquiry, should immediately investigate this whole affair or at least refer it to the Commission currently investigating the administration of the Public Service. 
As I said previously, I have received hundreds of complaints from disadvantaged peopleyoung people in the terms of this motion- and I know that my colleague, the honourable member for Corangamite, has received similar letters. 
-Actually at present it is a 5-year waiting list and the way this Government is going it will become a 6, 7, 8 or 9 year waiting list until we get rid of this Government 
-Yes, it is entirely correct. The people of Canberra ought to know what is going on and what is happening in high places. I think we are entitled to know and the Australian people are entitled to know what Miss Morosi's qualifications are. The Attorney-General has described her as a most engaging employee. But, as far as I know, ministerial staff, certainly those working for Treasurers, traditionally have always had academic qualifications as well as being most engaging employees. I ask the Minister: What is the truth about this? What is the truth in the allegation of a flat being allocated? Was the lease signed or was it not signed? I believe that it was. The Minister would not let me table a copy of a letter which confirms that the lease was signed. My information is that the lease was signed. We are entitled to know when and what subsequently happened to it. Charges have been made in respect to this young lady and her husband which concern the New South Wales Commissioner of Corporate Affairs.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not want to transgress your obvious generosity by going into that matter. 
I have been straying,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I think that these matters should be investigated and not swept under the rug. For example, I would like to know what use has been made of VIP aircraft by Ministers and whether this young lady has been a passenger. 
I am straying,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  But I am concerned on behalf of the great majority of Australian people who I believe have an interest in this matter. We want a frank and open investigation. I can assure the Government that there are serious and farreaching implications to this whole affair. Let us bring them out into the open. The style of government domonstrated in recent months is totally unacceptable to honest and fair minded Australians. 
In the short time left to me, I wish to comment on what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had to say after question time today. He complained about a matter. He did not mention my name, but it was I who placed questions in regard to this matter on the notice paper. I was not in the chamber but I heard what he had to say over the public address system. I think he said that we should write to him about such matters. Is that what he said? I think he said that we should write to him. What he is really saying is that we should keep this kind of thing quiet and not bring it out into the open. He objected to my putting the questions on the notice paper. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  as you would know the forms of this House require that any question which includes a person's name must be placed on the notice paper. It would be contrary to the Standing Orders for an honourable member to ask in this House a question which raised a person's name.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you know that, I know that and so does the Prime Minister. That is the reason why this was done. 
I suggest to the Government, the Prime Minister and to anybody else who is interested that they have a look at the notice paper today. These questions no longer appear on the notice paper. This is because the Opposition wanted to leave the matter free to be debated and because we were told that the Minister was going to reply to those questions and issue a statement to the Press at 5 o'clock last night. This did not happen and has not happened, so far as I know, up to this moment. Of course, the questions will be placed back on the notice paper. I support very strongly the motion moved by the honourable member for Corangamite and thank him for taking the initiative in this matter. 
I am sorry that I am not going to be able to respond in such a happy, friendly way to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for what he said a few moments ago which, I think, he said with his tongue in his cheek. Earlier today I was involved in a debate on the Australian Capital Territory and certain things that have happened with respect to the allocation of flats in the A.C.T. During this afternoon I have received some information which I think is of the utmost importance to the nation and which I should like to see incorporated at least in the official Hansard record of what takes place in this House. 
What I have to put is of far more significance than what you had to say. 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  proposed: 
That the question be now put. 
I raise a point of order. 
There had to be provision for smart alecs. 
Opposition members- The noes have it. 
Opposition members- Yes. (The bells having been rung). 
The question is carried. There are no tellers for the noes. 
Question put: 
That the House do now adjourn. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Leyland Company inform him of its approaching employment crisis. 
Did the company seek advice or assistance from the Government. 
If so, what was his response. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
Will he arrange for statistics to be extracted which will reveal the reasons for the high withdrawal rate of applications for loans under the Defence Service Homes Act. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Are formal meetings held between Commonwealth and State (a) Housing Ministers and (b) departmental officers. 
If so, how many meetings have been held since December 1972, and where have they been held. 
Has he received any formal submissions or advice from organisations representing sections of the building and construction industry or from lending institutions since1 January 1974. 
If so, what organisations were involved, and what was the general nature of the submissions. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Albury-Wodonga Corporation recently purchased 1,071 acres in Wodonga for residential purposes at $4, 166 per acre. 
If so, are these funds provided by the Australian Government through the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
Is the Commonwealth an equal partner with Victoria and New South Wales in the Albury-Wodonga Corporation. 
Did he say on 1 1 July 1974 that there was prima facie evidence that the prices paid by the Victorian Government for land at Melton and Sunbury were excessive, and that he intended to initiate an inquiry into these Victorian Government purchases. 
Was the land at Melton purchased by the Victorian Government for $3,700 per acre and the land at Sunbury for $3,400 per acre; if not, what was the cost price per acre. 
Can the land at Melton and Sunbury be described as prime residential; if not, what is its description; if so, what is the description of the land at Albury-Wodonga. 
Is there a prima facie case that the price paid by the Department of Urban and Regional Development for Wodonga land appears to be much higher than that paid by the Victorian Government for residential land at Melton and Sunbury. 
If so, will he extend the terms of the inquiry into land purchased at Melton and Sunbury by the Victorian Government to the land purchases at Wodonga made by the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Did loans by permanent building societies in Australia total (a) $ 1,200m to build 75,000 dwellings in 1972-73 and (b) $770m to build 45,000 dwellings in 1 973-74 
Were the projections for 1974-75$600m to build 30,000 dwellings. 
Are the revised projections for 1974-75, announced by the permanent building societies last week, $300 m to build 15,000 dwellings in the whole of Australia. 
Does he agree with these projections: if not what are his projections. 
Is the estimated short fall of dwellings (a) 30.000. ( b) 40,000 or (c) 50,000 or more for 1 974-75. 
Is the home building industry in a crisis situation. 
Are the problems of the home building industry caused by actions of the Australian Treasury. 
What responsibility does he have with respect to the well-being of the Australian home building industry. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or his Department received submissions from the originator of the market forecasting scheme known as  BIMARK  if so, when. 
Will implementation of the scheme be beneficial to Governments, the building industry and the Australian public. 
If so, what steps are being taken to implement the scheme. 
If not, what initiatives are being taken by the Government to plan the future needs and activities of the building industry. 
If any initiatives have commenced, (a) what section of his Department is responsible and (b) are representatives of private industry included. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What items are included under the Consumer Price Index sub-groups of (a) home ownership and (b) house price, repairs and maintenance. 
In general terms does part ( 1 ) (a) refer to movements in the cost of 'lived in' homes and part ( 1 ) (b) to the cost of new building. 
Is there statistical information available on the increases for the June 1974 quarter in the cost of land and interest charges on house purchase. 
What was the average cost of ( a ) all lived in dwellings sold and (b) all new dwellings completed in the June quarter. 
What was the increase in dollars per week for the quarter for parts (l)(a) and (b) based on the Consumer Price Index results of 7. 1 per cent and 7.7 per cent respectively. 
I wish to take part briefly in this debate because I am concerned at the way the Government has acted on this occasion. It is interesting to note that the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is seated at the table, was the Minister at the table when we were discussing the Northern Territory Lands Acquisition Bill. I had a feeling on that occasion that the Minister probably privately supported our views but was overruled by other members in the Cabinet and I suspect that could be the position on this occasion. We have not really had a proper opportunity- I think my colleagues have consistently made this point- to examine this legislation and I do not believe that anyone on the Government side apart from the Minister himself has had any better opportunity. We received copies of the Bill late on Monday evening. The copy that I had and the copy received by my colleague the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  were so poor that we could not even read them. So really it was not until yesterday when the Bill was presented in the House that we were able to give any consideration whatever to this legislation. I am sure that the Minister will himself agree that it is very complex legislation and it is not the sort of thing on which we can arrive at a view in 10 minutes or indeed in 10 hours. 
We on this side have had a number of meetings concerning this matter, but we still have not completely resolved on every item what action should be taken to improve the legislation. It was only yesterday that the Government refused to allow the Opposition additional time to examine the measure by opposing a motion by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to adjourn this debate until next Tuesday. So really my purpose in taking part in this debate is to record a strong protest at the way in which we have been treated. 
I would like to place on record my view on some aspects of the Bill. Dealing with the Bill very quickly, we on this side have reservations about the limitation of what is known as the Darwin area. We find it difficult to understand why the Government should select 60 kilometres to define 'Darwin area'. I know that under the Lands Acquisition Act the figure was 90 kilometres but it seems ridiculous to use 60 kilometres because not all of this area was subject to damage by the cyclone. We on this side are, I think probably more than anything else, concerned about the shabby way the Government has treated both the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly and the Darwin Council. I believe that neither body has even been given a copy of the legislation. 
The members of those bodies certainly did not have a copy of the legislation before we did. The Minister says that what I said is not true but I believe it is. 
The Minister says that they all received copies at the same time as the Bill was introduced into the House yesterday. That did not leave them much time to examine the legislation prior to its coming into this House. Let me remind honourable members that the Government announced that it wanted the Bill passed on the same day as it was introduced into this House. I think the Government admits that and certainly the Minister has confessed that members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory did not receive the courtesies to which we on this side of the House believe they are entitled. 
Open government was a pious expression which went out the window the day after this Government was elected and there are thousands of examples to prove it. We on this side are concerned about the lack of the right of appeal of the individual. Under the Northern Territory Lands Acquisition Bill there was absolutely no right of appeal for an individual whatsoever. Officers could go on to a person's property, resume the land, knock over a shed or do anything. Not even on the matter of compensation did the individual have the right of appeal to any higher authority. For that reason and nothing else the Opposition with its numbers in the Senate threw that Bill out. I suggest to the Government and to the Minister in particular that it is much better to talk to us and to co-operate with us in this place instead of using their numbers just to steamroll legislation through this place because fortunately there is still another place in which matters like this can be properly debated. 
The question of land use is referred to in clause 6 of the Bill. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to paragraph (b) of clause 6 dealing with the functions of the Darwin Reconstruction Commission. It reads in part: 
b ) to carry out planning in relation to development, construction and land use in the Darwin area - 
Obviously this means this Commission supersedes all other authorities- in accordance with any determinations of the Australian Government in respect of matters referred to in paragraph (a), and recommend to the Minister general planning and development schemes for the Darwin area; 
What happens after that? Like the Northern Territory Lands Acquisition Bill, there appears to be absolutely no right of appeal at all. Clause 8 of the Bill deals with general planning and development schemes. They are to be approved by the Minister after considering recommendations of the Commission and public authorities shall comply with the schemes so approved. That is absolute power to plan and this would have an effect on the value of land. There is another point that I think should be mentioned. I do not know whether anybody on this side of the House has mentioned it but there is absolutely no obligation upon the Government or on this Commission to display any plans in respect of town planning. In any local government area in Australia where there is to be rezoning or any town planning which affect the people living in the area it is customary for the plans to be displayed publicly for a period before commencement of the program, but there is simply no such provision in this legislation. 
Under clause 9 of the Bill the Commission shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister with respect to the performance of its functions or the exercise of its powers. I am informed that such a provision is not even in the National Capital Development Commission Act because programs must go to the Cabinet. We believe clause 9 ought to be the subject of amendment. Clause 1 1 of the Bill deals with the powers of the Commission. It reads in part: 
Without limiting the generality of section 10 . . .the Commission has power, for or in connexion with the performance of its functions- 
to control and administer land vested - 
I emphasise the words 'land vested '- in the Commission . . . 
What sort of land would ever be vested in the Commission? I hope that the Minister is making copious notes and will reply in due course because the only way that we on this side believe that land can be vested in the Commission- this is perhaps as a result of the help that we have had from an officer from the Minister's Department, for which we are grateful- is in the event of some land being left to the Commission in a deceased's estate. Perhaps the Minister will tell us a bit more about that. 
There is another curious situation in clause 13 which deals with the placing of land under the control of the Commission. Clause 13(2 ) reads: 
the Commission is, subject to this section, empowered to occupy and manage the land and to cany out such works on, and make such use of, the land . . . 
the Commission is not empowered to dispose of, or grant a lease of, the land, but the land shall not be disposed of, and a lease of the land shall not be granted, by Australia without the consent of the Commission. 
Will the Minister tell us who is the boss? Who is the superior power- the Minister, the Commission or the Australian Government? We believe that there should be some higher authority. I realise there are difficulties in Darwin concerning the courts but it should not be too difficult to arrange for a magistrate to deal with appeals. 
Clause 15 of the Bill deals with entry to and work on land. This clause makes the need 1 have referred to imperative. Sub-clause (2) reads: 
For the purposes of public safety or sanitation, the Commission may, by its authorised servants, agents or contractors, enter on ... in the Darwin Area and demolish dangerous or damaged structures, remove debris, goods and materials and perform work. 
It can do a whole lot of other things. Where is the right of the individual? What if an individual is not happy about this? These things can be done by oral direction. Some officer within the Department can enter land and tell the individual to get off his land. He can knock over the individual s house. In fact, I believe that has happened. A bulldozer apparently went on to some person's property up there and pushed the remainder of  a  house over a cliff. I believe this is factual. We do not believe this is the way to treat people. There should be some provision for a taxpayer, for the individual living on the land or using that land, to have the right of appeal to someone. One suggestion that we are making is that the someone should be a magistrate so that matters of this kind can be dealt with quickly. 
We are not happy with the constitution of the Commission. I believe that one of my colleagues dealt in some depth with that aspect. We are not happy that there should be a  chairman  who would appear to me to be nothing more than a puppet. On reading this Bill it certainly appears that the general manager is the  chairman,  the managing director and in fact, to use the Australian expression, the boss cocky. We see very great dangers in that appointment. 
I said that I would speak for only a few minutes, and I think it would be a good thing if a few more people in this place tried out this practice. I conclude by saying that we are all most concerned at the way in which the Government has treated the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and the town council. We are equally concerned that there is no provision for the rights of the individual. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to the proposed surcharge tax on income from deposits in building societies, credit unions and savings banks, as well as retirement benefits, will this tax also apply to interest on Special Security Bonds. 
If so, what is the position of deposit-holders who have been promised tax concessions rather than tax penalties by the Government on these bonds. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What are the academic qualifications of Professor Mandel currently lecturing in Australian universities. 
Is the Australian Government making any contribution to the expenses associated with Professor Mandel 's visit. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation,  Mr Speaker.  I claim to have been misrepresented by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson),  who I am sure knows that he has misrepresented me because he has remained in the chamber. The Minister dealt just a few moments ago during question time with the matter of the deductibility of interest payments on mortgages. I am sure that he said that I had said at some stage or other that in government we would unscramble the legislation. He is now nodding, which means that he did use those words. I say that that is untrue. I have never used that expression in relation to this legislation. The only thing he said that is true is that this idea was offered to us in government, as it was offered to the then Opposition, and we rejected it. We rejected this idea because it discriminates against renters, people who do not have homes, people on low incomes as against people on high incomes, people nearing the end of their mortgage repayments and people with little or no - 
I am not debating the policy,  Mr Speaker. 
I am making the point that some of what the Minister said was true. The part that was true is that this scheme had been offered to us. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will not push the point any further except to say that it is an untrue assertion and I would like him to produce evidence to substantiate it. In any case he was not the Minister who was at the table when the Bill was introduced- it was the former Treasurer. I would like to hear his comments on it. 
-Yes, I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes),  speaking in the debate that concluded a few moments ago. I heard only pan of what he said but I believe I do not do him an injustice when I say that he accused me of smearing him in the adjournment debate on the last day of sitting. 
Perhaps the honourable member will tell us what he did say, but that is what it sounded like to me. He said that last night during a division. In fact he was not sitting at his seat. I object to what he said, because it is not true. 
Yes. 
-That is exactly what I think I said too- 'on the last night of the last sittings'. I have the Hansard in front of me and page 4722 is the relevant page. Honourable members may remember that I was in fact sat down by the Leader of the House. I rose at 10.5 1 p.m. and I must have spoken for about half a minute when we were gagged. Nowhere on page 4722 will the honourable member for Corio find his name mentioned, nor will anybody else find his name mentioned. I think it is very improper for someone who is a  Deputy Speaker  in this place to be making this sort of accusation. I could almost accuse the honourable member of smearing me. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the cost per acre of: 
the undeveloped land purchased during 1973/74 by the Director of Defence Service Homes and listed in the interim report on Page 15 and 
the undeveloped land purchased at Craigieburn announced on 2 1 September 1974. 
How many building lots will result from each purchase. 
3 ) What is the average cost of an undeveloped lot in each purchase. 
What is the anticipated average cost of a developed lot. 
Does the developed cost include: 
a ) any provision for interest accrued and 
comparable services to those provided at North Rocks Estate. 
Does the average cost of a lot in the North Rocks Estate include any provision for interest accrued. 
When was the North Rocks Estate purchased. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Leyland Company inform his predecessor of its approaching financial crisis. 
Did the company seek advice or assistance from the Government. 
3 ) If so, what was the response. 
I think it is important for someone on this side of the House to place on record our objections to the way that this matter is being bulldozed through the Committee tonight. 
We received this amendment 15 minutes ago. 
-The Minister brought this into the House - 
That is precisely what I am speaking to. 
-The Bill was brought into the House last week and we were told that we had to make a decision the next day. 
It has a great deal to do with the clause because the whole Bill was bulldozed through the House. The Minister for the Northera Territory  (Dr Patterson),  who is at the table, was at the table on that night and I was on this side of the table. Then the Bill went to the Senate and the Senate considered it yesterday. What chance is there for us in this Parliament to consider all these amendments? 
We want to get the legislation passed in such a way that it is workable and fair to the people of the Northern Territory. I think we just have not had a fair go tonight and last week when Bill was brought into the House. I think it is intolerable that the Minister can bring into the Committee this number of amendments. How many amendments are there- ten or fifteen? 
The Government does not agree with some of the amendments, including the clause which gives to the Minister for the Northern Territory, who is discussng this matter with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  who has an interest in the matter also, total and absolute power. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development frowns in disagreement. 
It so happens that I have been to the Northern Territory and it is my intention to go there again shortly to have a look at the housing situation, which I think needs some close examination. However, I do not want to be distracted. We want to get the Bill through but we want it through on a basis that is fair to the people of the Northern Territory. 
I will not sit down because I think it is proper for us on this side of the chamber to make a protest. It occurs to me that the Minister who interjected, as well as those sitting at the table- the Minister for the Northern Territory and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development- have no interest in the people of the Northern Territory simply because those people elected a government of a different colour. If honourable members want to introduce the question of colour that is the extent to which I would go. 
The Minister is an old friend of mine and I know he does not mean half of what he says. The point is that we are not happy with clause 9 which baldly says that the Commission shall comply with any directions given to it by the Minister in respect of the performance of its functions and so on. If that does not invest in the Minister total and absolute power I would like to know what does. What we on the Opposition side want to see is that the amendment we moved in the other place is carried. We believe that in the other place some degree of common sense, compromise or agreement was exercised. I do not want to take up the time of the chamber by reading our amendment. Except those sitting behind the Minister who probably have not even read the Bill or the amendments, we all know what the amendment is. I do not want to delay the passage of the Bill but I wish to place on record our strongest protest at the way we believe the Government is steamrolling this legislation through this place. 
Asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made with the local authorities for the payment of rates and taxes on the property at Glebe purchased recently by the Australian Government. 
-This Bill seeks to appropriate an amount of $25m for the establishment of an Australian Housing Corporation which subsequently will be financed by an unknown and so far undisclosed, appropriation from general revenue. The legislation was introduced initially into the Senate in the dying moments of the last sitting by  Senator Cavanagh,  who was representing the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  For some reason, known only to the Government, the Bill was withdrawn from the Senate and introduced into this House last week. It was interesting to note that the second reading speech of  Senator Cavanagh  bore absolutely no resemblance to the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction. Yet the Bill is completely unchanged. One of the reasons obviously is that the speech by the Minister for Housing and Construction in this House last week was one of his typical public relations exercises. It was designed to conceal the true purpose of the legislation in a sea of words and pious hopes, all aimed at securing headlines in the media. The Government is saying one thing when it means another and, consistent with its behaviour in the past, it purports to demonstrate concern for the individual when in fact it has no interest in the rights of the individual at all. All this Government seeks is total power for the Government 
The Opposition has studied the Bill very carefully for the purpose of suggesting amendments to improve it, but there is little in the Bill which could be considered to be in the national interest and a full range of amendments would emasculate the Bill entirely. We therefore oppose it outright. In the first place we believe there is no need for a Canberra-run housing corporation which, in fact, would be a Canberra-run housing commission competing with each of the commissions in each of the States. If the Government has surplus funds for this purpose we believe that the money should be channelled directly through the existing structures already established in the field. 
The Government claims it has the constitutional powers to do this and the Opposition makes no comment on this aspect of the constitutional powers with respect to the Bill. Even if it were established that the powers asserted by the Government are constitutional, we reject the Bill because we believe that it is a retrograde piece of legislation. There is no need for it and it is a gross waste of resources. At a time when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is claiming that the Government will cut back public spending, the Government is actually expanding public spending in this unnecessary and wasteful manner. We believe that it is an extravagance that Australia can well do without. 
-What does the Minister think? Is he prepared to say where the Government would cut back on expenditure? 
The Government has said it is going to cut back on expenditure. I think it was last week that it announced an expenditure of $17m and this week an expenditure of $25m to set up what is an unnecessary corporation. I say that is a waste of money. We believe this legislation is an exercise in empire building by the Minister for Housing and Construction in competition with the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  It is consistent with the Government's philosophy to seek total control over all aspects of our lives- Big Brother style socialism. The Minister for Housing and Construction has not told us how much money is to be advanced from taxpayers' funds, nor does he tell us at what rate of interest the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  will be advancing moneys to the proposed corporation. I would have thought this to be a significant question. 
Yes, it is very important. To obtain a proper assessment of the Government's intentions it is necessary to study everything except what the Government is now saying. It is especially revealing to study the Minister  's  earlier well-placed leaks to the Press. On 2 1 September 1974 there was such a leak and I quote from the Press report: 
According to a spokesman - 
Apparently in this case it was not the Minister but a spokesman for the Minister -  the new Australian Housing Corporation is being given powers to buy land, build housing estates, and provide mortgages for people earning up to $8,000 a year. 
That is not spelled out anywhere in this Bill. I quote again from the same Press report: 
The Corporation will provide the focal point for the Government's plan to have trade unions, and possibly the ACTU operate terminating building societies. 
This is not mentioned in the Bill, nor has there ever been any indication from the Minister whether the financial allocation for the ACTU 's proposed housing schemes would come from the States or from the Commonwealth. The Bill does mention assistance for 'classes of persons'. It seems that the Government has in mind selective assistance according to certain income levels which will be decided solely by regulation. In my view, to govern by regulation is a very slippery way to govern. It is on the track to totalitarianism. There is no right of appeal in this Bill. This is not explained in the Bill; we have to guess at what the regulations are and accept them. In the same Press release in September the Minister said: 
With new methods and cheap land now held in stock by the defence service homes scheme the Corporation will hope to offer lower priced homes than are now available. 
The Government has not explained this in the Bill at all. All it has mentioned is that the defence service homes loan funds are to be transferred to the Corporation. These funds amounted to $986.6m at 30 June last, with total receipts last year standing at $ 1 .5m. It seems that it is the Government's intention to use this money ultimately for persons other than ex-Service personnel. Once again, the Bill does not state this clearly but it was referred to in an earlier Press release of the Minister when he used the expression 'rotating the funds'. The Minister is laughing; I do not know whether in agreement or not. On 10 December 1974 somebody leaked a similar story to the Press following a Cabinet discussion on the proposed housing corporation. Apparently the Minister had said: 
At first the Corporation will concentrate on lending directly and indirectly to servicemen, ex-servicemen, and low and middle income families. 
I ask the Parliament and the people: What right has the Government to use ex-servicemen's housing funds for persons other than exservicemen? Equally, what right has the Government to use land already purchased for defence forces homes for other purposes? We believe the answer is: No right at all. The Minister's Press release on 12 February 1975 was no more helpful than his second reading speech. He talked about 'considering low repayment second mortgage loans '. I do not know whether it is possible to underline words in Hansard reports, but if it is I would like to underline the word 'considering'. The Government is always considering. The Press release further stated: 
The Government could provide second mortgages . . . these special second mortgages could have very low repayments in the earlier years. 
The Minister asserted that the scheme would assist one in five Australian homebuyers, which is all great material for a Johnson Press release, but pure waffle when the positives are examined. The only positive statement by the Minister about this proposed corporation which is clearly honest is: 
Specific schemes are not yet finalised. 
With magnificent rhetoric he asks: 
Why should the home renter be neglected? 
We believe this is a fair question and ask the Government the same question because once the Government abandons the home savings grants scheme there will be absolutely no legislation to assist renters to become home owners. I dc not believe that this Government is sincere when it claims to support the principle of home ownership, and nothing in this Bill or any other Bill introduced in the last 2 years will do anything except assist those classes of persons favoured by the Government. Nowhere in this legislation is there an indication that the desirable social objective of home ownership is to be pursued. 
-They say they do but in fact this Bill demonstrates that they do not. The Liberal and Country Parties do support the principle of home ownership for those who wish it and we believe it is the right of all Australians to be able to strive for, achieve and choose their own design and location in housing. The Government claims that this Bill will assist the lower income earner to purchase a modest home or other dwelling unit or to obtain adequate rented accommodation in cases where home ownership is not reasonably attainable or, in certain circumstances, not desirable'. What these words mean is that the Labor Government, like Big Brother, will tell the lower income earner, who is as yet undefined, that lie has no hope of obtaining a home, or that he is unsuitable to be housed in a home or that he is suitable to be housed only in rented premises. He will be put in the appropriate accommodation according to where the Government believes he or she should live. 
Apparently the Government envisages the lower income group as- to quote from the Billthat large section of the community who are at present not catered for by the existing public housing authorities. The Bill does not explain just who comprise this section of the community, but under clause 6 of the Bill it would appear reasonable to regard that large section of the community as very nearly one-quarter of the Australian people. I ask the House: What can be more divisive, more damaging to the Australian people, than a centralist socialist bureaucracy dictating its own terms by the device of regulationdividing the community into various groups who may receive a housing loan at subsidised interest rates and other groups who may not? 
-We will see about that. Our own record in the past gives the lie to that. The Government should bring down interest rates for everyone- that is the simple answer. It should give every Australian home-seeker a chance to service his debt. All that this Bill will do is to assist one section of the community at the expense of the other. The Government has done nothing to lower interest rates. With the longterm bond rate remaining at  9lh  per cent Australia now has the highest interest rate on record. Labor promised low interest rates, lower priced houses and a socialist Utopia for city dwellers. Like so many other Labor election promises, these have been broken. The interest rate structure is cockeyed and unfair, and every measure that the Government takes only exacerbates the position- including this Bill. 
Some Australians who can bridge the deposit gap can expect to be paying 5% per cent for their housing money; others up to 12 per cent- 14 per cent on first mortgage, and some over 20 per cent on a second mortgage. Every measure that the Government has adopted has further distorted the interest rate structure in this country and, given a continuance of its gross mismanagement of the economy, it seems likely to us that interest rates may creep even higher before the year is out. Is not that a reasonable suggestion? 
An examination of the Bill itself shows that it seeks additional powers for the Commonwealth but does not indicate how these powers will assist the building industry or home seekers, except once again, those favoured by the Labor socialist Government. The Government has blamed the private housing sector for inflation and the current recession in the industry. This is clearly untrue. It is simply this Government's mismanagement of the economy which has created inflation, unemployment, and the highest interest rates on record. This Bill will not reduce inflation, unemployment or interest rates overall. 
The cost of building a modest home is escalating more rapidly than the average Australian's wage. Last week figures issued by the Bureau of Statistics showed that the cost of building materials had increased more than 22 per cent for the period December 1973 to December 1974.' In the past when this has happened the Minister has invariably issued an optimistic Press release which has conveniently overlooked this inexorable cost escalation, and has usually referred in cheerful terms to the slackening of the increase compared with the previous month. On this occasion the increase for the month of December was actually less than for the month of November, but the Minister has remained unusually silent. As long as this rate of costinflation in the building industry continues, combined with high interest rates, fewer Australians will be able to afford even a modest home, no matter what the Labor socialist Government says it will do. 
The private sector builds more than 90 per cent of the houses in Australia. It does not matter how many building corporations the Government sets up, they can never take the place of the private building industry. The purpose of the Corporation is obscured under the guise of consolidating existing but incidental Commonwealth powers into one corporate identity. These authorities are extended far more widely to embrace housing for any purpose of Australia or authority of Australia, and in this respect the Bill seeks to assume, I submit the role of the private housing sector. 
In Australia last year there was a shortfall of 38 000 houses which will certainly be repeated this year, and this, combined with the cessation of private investment in flats, will mean that it will take many years before most young Australians will be able to achieve home ownership- if ever. Implementation of this legislation will do nothing to alleviate unemployment in the building industry, as claimed by the Minister. At the end of January there were more than 14 000 on-site building workers registered as unemployed. For every on-site worker there are four in the building supply trades, which means that at the end of January 70 000 of the 31 1 000 unemployed in Australia were directly or indirectly connected with the building trade. It seems likely that these figures could increase to 100 000 when the February statistics are released shortly. 
As further evidence of the Government's intention to become a constructing authority, the Bill envisages that the Corporation will use existing resources of the Department of Housing and Construction; or, by arrangement, those of State government authorities, and the private sector. The words 'existing' and 'arrangement' in this context seem to signal that it is the Government 's intention to engage day labour which, as we have seen in South Australia, becomes grossly inefficient and wasteful of public funds. The Parliament House in South Australia is currently being repaired and renovated. The estimated cost was about $500,000. 1 believe that the cost has now risen to about $2m, as a result of the day labour process adopted by the South Australian Labor Government. 
This legislation allows for a building and construction authority which can operate anywhere in Australia. Not only will it be competing with State housing authorities, it will also be competing with other development bodies, such as the Orange-Bathurst and Albury-Wodonga development authorities. Even within the Commonwealth, the Corporation will have the capacity to undertake building and construction work of its own volition provided it is not inconsistent with the National Capital Development Commission Act. We believe that this is contrary to all good planning principles, and is wasteful of resources. Even the Government's own advisers on land tenure- the Else-Mitchell royal commissionstrongly recommended that the management and control of land use should be under the one authority. The establishment of this Corporation will only further fragment such controls. 
Under section 29 of the Bill the Corporation can lend directly to a person for the building or purchase of a dwelling, or it can lend to an approved lender for lending to other persons. The Corporation would have the power to determine the terms, conditions, circumstances and classes of persons to whom such loans may be made. The Opposition believes that the use of this process may counter, to some extent, cyclical fluctuations in the supply of housing finance, but it hardly seems necessary to establish an entire new bureaucracy, which is a duplication of other housing authorities, when there is an existing financial structure established to distribute housing finance. We remind the Government that only just 3 or 4 months ago it injected $ 1 50m into the supply of housing finance via the savings banks. At that time we made the suggestion that at least some of that money should have gone through the permanent building societies, because very little of the money has helped the building industry. 
Clause 53 of the Bill gives the Government virtual total power to make any regulations which are not inconsistent with this Act. In short, the Corporation using this power can lend to whom it wishes and on whatever terms it wishes, and can do all things except borrow money. Is that your interpretation of it,  Mr Minister.  I think it is. Clauses 49 and 10 are especially repugnant to the States which have been involved in the public housing business for many years. Under Clause 49 the Corporation is given power to compulsorily acquire any land for its own purpose, including land that is Crown land of a State. Under clause 10 the Corporation is only required to have regard to the responsibilities of other Commonwealth, State or local government or other interested bodies, and- this is the important part- to consult with them when appropriate. There is no requirement whatever upon the Corporation to act in agreement with those authorities. 
The Opposition believes that there is no need for the establishment of yet another Draconian bureaucracy which, in spite of the Minister's statements, can only be a competitor of the State housing commissions. It is an extravagant use of public funds which Australia simply cannot afford. Quite apart from the initial $25m and the Defence Service home loan funds, vast sums of public moneys will be required to finance the project around the Commonwealth. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
Just before the luncheon break I was making the point that the Opposition considers the setting up of the Australian Housing Corporation as a gross waste of public funds which the country cannot afford. Quite apart from the initial $25m and the defence services homes loan funds it will use, vast sums of public money will be required to finance the project around all the States and the Territories. The total funds employed by the combined housing commissions for the year ended 30 June were almost $2-5 billion. The housing commissions at that time employed staff of approximately 6 000 people altogether, and for the year ended 30 June 1973 they constructed approximately 12 500 dwelling units. That figure represents less than 10 per cent of housing completions in Australia. The proposed Corporation, which we are discussing today, could have only the same effect. The situation is unreal. The cost of building the 12 500 dwelling units a year or so ago was $135m. One wonders whether the money which will be advanced by the Treasury during the next 12 months will come from tax receipts to finance the Corporation. We make the point that this is not the way in which to cut back public spending. We wonder to what extent funds will be required for land acquisition. We make the point that a federal housing commission, which is really what the Corporation will be, could not achieve better results than the combined State housing commissions. If we lump them alltogether we find that the State housing commissions, and the Housing Trust in the case of South Australia, are currently using more than $2.5 billion in capital. We believe that that is an unreal situation. It is nonsense for the Government to claim that its Housing Corporation will complement the housing commissions. In our view, the Corporation will ultimately shrivel them out of existence. 
I want to have recorded in Hansard a portion of the first page of the report of the Queensland Commissioner of Housing for the year ended 30 June 1974. It sets out the principal functions of the Commission and highlights this aspect of duplication. It is a document similar to the reports issued by all the other housing commissions and the South Australian Housing Trust. I have spoken to the Minister about having it incorporated in Hansard, and I seek leave to do so. 
-The Opposition submits that there is nothing that the proposed Corporation can do more effectively or more cheaply than can the State instrumentalities, most of which operate in a manner similar to the Queensland Housing Commission. We find that we have the total support- including the implicit support of the Labor States- of the Housing Ministers in the States. I would like to quote briefly from some of the letters I have received from the State Ministers setting out their attitudes towards the proposed Corporation. By doing so I will not be breaching a confidence. I shall be quoting extracts from letters from which it is perfectly proper for me to quote. The Minister for Housing in New South Wales said: 
Apart from the constitutional aspect. . . . there was no justification whatsoever for the proposed Corporation as there already existed in every State competent administrative structures, adequately controlled by State legislation to achieve everything that  Mr Johnson  had in mind for his new brainchild. The result could only be costly duplication of administration and confusion in the minds of home seekers. If  Mr Johnson  wants more flexibility in handling the housing problem then all he needs to do is remove some of the shackles he has already placed upon the States and meet our well documented claims for additional finance for low and moderate income earners. This in turn would also provide the necessary stimulus to a sorely tried building industry. 
In his letter the Queensland Minister for Works and Housing said: 
The Commonwealth Housing Corporation should be prevented by law from duplicating functions which are, or could be, provided through State housing authorities and should be bound in law to conform to laws and by-laws applicable to dwelling construction in a State. 
The Queensland Treasurer had this to say about the proposed Australian Housing Corporation:   . . it is another example of Commonwealth power grabbing to strengthen the control of the central Government over the everyday lives of the citizen. There could be no other logic for the Commonwealth's intrusion into what was previously a field of State activity, which the States are operating quite efficiently with the moneys made available to them. 
The Minister for Housing in the Western Australian Parliament had this to say about the Housing Corporation: 
In my view it is clearly an attempt to usurp the responsibility previously vested in State Housing Authorities and, quite naturally, our State in particular is most concerned at the provisions for compulsory acquisition. You will be aware, of course, that the State Housing Act of Western Australia makes no provision for the compulsory acquisition of land for housing purposes. 
The Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania had a great deal to say about the Corporation, but the time at my disposal will prevent me from quoting him extensively. He said: 
It is felt that this Bill should be opposed because of the dangers it will pose to the States and home seekers if this Commonwealth Government is able to establish such a body. 
The Minister for Housing in Victoria also had a great deal to say about it. In fact, I have quoted him in this place in the past. Portion of his letter to me dated 3 1 January,  referrring  to the Housing Corporation, states: 
I can only say that I would condemn it out of hand. The establishment of an Australian Housing Corporation does mean that with this machinery they could become the major housing and constructing authority throughout Australia and most certainly freeze the States out completely. 
So the Opposition has the almost universal support of the States in opposing this legislation. In the few moments left to me I would like to refer to a situation which could occur in South Australia. I have read the transcripts of the various meetings between the Commonwealth Minister and the State Ministers, and I do not think it  is any secret that all of the States are concerned about this legislation, including the Labor States. I have heard no comment from the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Dunstan,  but I have heard a brief comment from the Housing Minister in that State expressing his support for the establishment of the Corporation, which is quite to be expected, I suppose, as it is socialist legislation. 
I would like to pose to the Minister a situation which could come about, I believe, at Monarto in South Australia, which is a proposed growth development. I make the point that because of the clauses which provide for compulsory acquisition of land, even Crown land owned by the State, the effect they could have on the proposed Monarto development is most significant. The Labor Government controlled Corporation would have the power to acquire land anywhere in a State, including Monarto, and to build houses for sale or for rental as it pleases. In addition, it would have the power to determine the class of person'- the words consistently used in the Bill- to live in these houses. They could include, according to the Bill, ex-servicemen, migrants, Aborigines, Commonwealth public servants, contractors working for the Federal Government and persons in receipt of a Commonwealth pension; that is, aged persons, widows, deserted wives, supporting mothers, and so on. I believe that behind the facade of pious ideals the motives and the opportunity to exercise totalitarian-style powers by the Corporation is absolutely unlimited. Thousands of Australians, including South Australians, very few of whom want to go to Monarto, could be placed there, irrespective of their individual wishes. 
The Minister interrupts and says: 'That is nonsense'. I believe that it is a very likely result. It is another example of the gradual erosion by the Government of the individual liberties and freedoms of choice which we enjoy. The Liberal and Country parties are opposed to the legislation. Furthermore, we believe that no more money should be spent at Monarto which is a most unsuitable growth centre. It is one area in which the Government can easily cut back its expenditure. On behalf of the Opposition, I say that we will be opposing this legislation. 
-The explanatory notes about clause 3 which were just read by the. Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  claim that this amendment is needed, amongst other things, to assist people towards the purchase of land. We believe that like every other aspect of this legislation, the intentions of the amendment appear entirely praiseworthy and the words used sound attractive to the increasing thousands of Australians who are denied the opportunity to purchase land, a house, or even a flat. If we look behind the words, we find the whole concept is a deception and a fraud. Labor does not want people to own land. Labor wants the Government to own all the land and the people to be its tenants. I would like to read from part of the Australian Labor Party platform. At page 12, under the heading 'Economic Planning' it specifically states: 
With the abject of achieving Labor's objectives, establish or extend public enterprise, where appropriate by nationalisation, particularly in the fields of banking, consumer finance, insurance, marketing, housing . . . 
The paragraph mentions several other items. The Minister has said as much as this in his early flowery Press releases on the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreements. If he remembers a couple of years ago he said that he was going to force the States to use all the money that this Government provided on rental housing. States, such as my own State of South Australia, have for years under both Liberal and Labor governments built up a most satisfactory and adequate stock of State-owned living accommodation. I shall quote from the South Australian Housing Trust annual report for the year ended 1973. At page 4 it states: 
In the period 1970-72 the Housing Trust re-established in South Australia what it considered an appropriate annual level of public housing output at about 2200 units of accommodation. The yearly completions had fallen to nearly 1700 in 1969-70, but in the following 2 years this had increased to just over 2200____ 
The report goes on to make other points. The Opposition believes that there is no need for a Housing Corporation which in fact would be competing with State housing commissions or State housing trusts for land, finance and building and other scarce resources. This amendment attempts to further gild the lily by implying that home seekers- the Bill describes them as certain classes of people- need the Corporation because it will solve all the problems of bridging finance and high priced second mortgages. Again we believe that this is deceitful. Only the class of person favoured by the Government and selected by the Minister, with the power of regulation to which he has just referred, would obtain finance as a result of this Bill. There is no mention of interest rates, either as to what the Corporation itself might pay or what it might charge. Both the amendment and the clause build up false hopes for the vast majority of Australian home seekers who could never hope to benefit from this legislation. This Labor Government has created serious unemployment and a gross shortage of houses and flats. There is an ever-growing pool of Australians who are desperate for accommodation. 
-I wish to make the point that we are dealing with clause 6 and the amendment moved thereto. Clause 6 covers the whole area ofthe functions of the Corporation. We in the Opposition have been trying to co-operate with the Government in having the debate expedited. There are many people on our side who wish to take pan in the debate, and I want to speak to some of the other clauses and other amendments as well. We are doing what we can to hurry the proceedings but we think that perhaps the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  could be a little quicker in his replies. We trust that there will not be any arguments when we come to a matter which wil be discussed in 10 or 15 minutes from now, because there are still some forms of the House which we can use. 
I shall confine myself strictly to dealing with the amendment before the Committee which, as the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  indicated by interjection a few moments ago, seeks to provide powers for the Corporation to extend to certain classes of persons rental subsidies which will be decided upon by regulation. We believe that here again is highlighted the duplication of activities which have been the function of the State housing commissions for many years. The Government's intention, in spite of the reassurances of its spokesmen, is to establish branches of the proposed Housing Corporation in each of the States. Those branches will do exactly the same work as the housing commissions in those  Stales.  The Opposition believes that that would be a gross waste of money and resources and an unnecessary addition to the already huge increase in the Canberra based bureaucracy which has been established since Labor came into office. 
The Housing Trust of South Australia, which is the housing authority with which I have most to do, and its work in the provision of accommodation for disadvantaged persons- that is what we are talking about tonight- is clear evidence that there is no need for a competing authority. Nor, indeed, would any other authority be likely to provide that service so well. In 1970 the South Australian Council of Social Services conducted a survey through the various social welfare agencies on what was termed 'emergency housing'. As a result a priority housing assistance scheme was established and a referral system devised in agreement with social welfare agencies. Where possible the Trust in South Australia and the commissions in the other States assist age and invalid pensioners, deserted wives, widows, and people faced with unemployment, which is one of the categories of persons the Minister has just been describing. I would like to quote briefly from the annual report of the Housing Trust of South Australia for 1973 to point up the duplication that the legislation which the Government is seeking will in fact produce: 
 At 30 June 1973 2635 tenants occupying standard rental accommodation were in receipt of rent reductions for various reasons as detailed in table 9. 
That is what we are talking about- rent reductions: 
This represents 7.87 per cent of the total number of rental tenants, and the weekly amount involved in these rent reductions is $5,924. 
A breakdown of the way in which that figure was arrived at is then set out on page 30 of the report. 
I seek leave to have that table incorporated in Hansard. I have spoken to the Minister about the matter and he has agreed to give me leave to do so. 
-The only person in this chamber who is filibustering is the Leader of the House  (Mr Daley)  who has just completed his speech. We have become used to his continual filibustering every time some situation like this arises. I have some figures here which indicate how many times this has happened to us. I will not spend the time allotted to me just to deal with this. In 1 973 a guillotine was applied 10 times and in 1974, 7 times. The gag was moved 103 times in 1973, and 1 14 times in 1974. Already this year- we have not been sitting for 4 weeks- the Leader of the House has moved the gag' 9 times. That is what this is all about. We do not want to delay the Bill. We are opposed to the BUI, it is true. Let us face facts. Twelve of these amendments are Government sponsored. Copies of them were distributed yesterday, I think. Copies of two were distributed tonight. 
One was distributed tonight. 
Let us not SPlit hairs about this. The point is that the amendments about which .we are talking are Government amendments. If that does not give us a reasonable ground for debating the BUI in the Committee stage, what has the Parliament come to? Why are we here? We are not opposed to any sort of sensible housing legislation, if we could get it. This is not sensible housing legislation. This is housing legislation which gives the total and complete power to the Government and which pushes aside all the States and their housing commissions. 
The Leader of the House said that we have had plenty of time to debate this legislation and that the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  had introduced it as soon as he possibly could. This is a Budget measure. It was referred to in the 1974 Budget. We had no information about it until the last night of the sitting of the Senate when the BUI was introduced there by  Senator Cavanagh. His  second reading speech had as much likeness to the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction as the likeness of a cow to a pig. Neither second reading speech had any relevance to the BUI. I think we are entitled to take part in the debate in the Committee stage. We have just been served, in the typical dictatorial, jackboots fashion of the Leader of the House, notice that there is to be an allotment of time for the remainder of the Committee stage. That will conclude at 9 p.m. That is 19 minutes from now. Six or 7 members on this side wish to take part in the debate and speak to the Government's amendments. I think it is absolutely outrageous that at 10 past 9 the remaining stages must be passed. That is 30 minutes from now. Is that obstructionism? Is it obstructionism for us to talk about a BUI which Will if it is passed, alter the whole nature of the society in which we live and which will restructure society, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said in his election speech? We have an obligation to pull it to pieces and to examine it. We make no apology for that. 
Australia already has a housing shortage which totalled 40 000 at 31 December. By the end of this year there will be another 40 000 houses short. Do not tell me that this Government's housing policies have been of any assistance to home seekers. It is impossible for a young person to obtain a home now. All that this legislation seeks is to divide the Australian community into those who will be allowed to buy or rent a house and those who will not. Those who wil be allowed wil do so because they are a certain class of people that this Government thinks fit to buy a house or to live in rented accommodation. I will not waste any more time because my colleagues wish to take part in the debate. We will not waste time dividing. We object very strongly to the treatment. We are becoming accustomed to it. We warn the Minister for Housing and Construction that we have long memories. We hope it will not be long before we are able to return the treatment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
Has the Government received any report from the Footwear Industry Advisory Panel established on 8 May 1973; if so, what are the details. 
Has any report been received from the sub-committee appointed to examine certain short term problems on 29 May 1973; if so, what are the details. 
What recommendations have been made by the Panel towards regaining stability of the footwear industry. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon  notice: 
1 ) What are the names and positions of the officials who accompanied him on his recent overseas tour. 
Which of these persons completed Customs declarations on return to Australia. 
How many television sets were declared, and by whom. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
How many issues of the publication 'Shelter' have been printed. 
How many individuals and organisations are on the mailing list 
3 ) Will he make this list available to the Opposition. 
Will he invite members of the Opposition to contribute to the publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each issue. 
What are the names and qualifications of each contributor. 
Has any fee been paid to a contributor; if so to whom and how much. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade the following question, upon notice: 
Has he or his predecessor received submissions from the originator of the market forecasting scheme known as BIMARK; if so, when. 
Will implementation of the scheme be beneficial to governments, the building industry and the Australian public. 
If so, what steps are being taken to implement the scheme. 
I can see that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  has read the Family Law Bill in some detail and that it has engendered strong feelings in his soul. Although I am being facetious in saying that, I think that one of the problems some of us suffer from- I do at any rate- is the belief that this Bill could well founder as a result of the way the Parliament works. We have before us the Bill, an amendment and then we have notice, I think it is called, of another amendment by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to portion of the original amendment. Honourable members on both sides of the House believe that if they vote in a certain way in fact they might not achieve the result that they seek. 
I appreciate the AttorneyGeneral's agreement. He says that it has become complicated. If it is complicated for him, just imagine what it is like for us poor unfortunate lay people without any training in law. 
There are ways in which the Standing Orders can be exploited to defeat the purposes of those who sponsor particular views. My personal view is to support the amendment moved by the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart).  I will not waste too much of the time of the House. I believe that we all have a job here. We have to arrive at opinions and express them, no matter how clumsy they are or how incorrect they sometimes are. We have an obligation to our electorates. That is the reason I wish to put on record the views that I hold. I say, in disagreement with the honourable member for Hunter, that the number of letters and telegrams that I receive on the matter does not make a scrap of difference to what will end up being my view. I suppose that we have all received more letters on this subject than on any other subject. My attitude has been to read them and to file them in various places. Certainly, it has not been to count them. I heard one honourable member say that he had received so many letters for the BUI and so many letters against the Bill, and that because he had received more letters for it he was going to vote for it. Perhaps I would be more inclined to go the other way. I like to keep an open mind on these things, even if my enemies say it is pretty vacant, and make up my mind for myself. 
I would be the first to agree that the present laws are not perfect and that divorce reform is highly desirable. My electorate is an urban electorate. Most other honourable members who represent that sort of electorate probably have the same experience in this matter. I estimate that perhaps 10 per cent or as much as 15 per cent of the problems that come before my office relate to marriage, breakdown of marriage, divorce, desertion and so on. One becomes something of a bush lawyer in trying to sort out these things. In fact, I think that there would not be a  family  in the country which has not been touched by this problem of divorce. There is not a family in the country that can remain unaffected. Therefore, we have to take a very great interest in the matter. I take the view that no matter what the divorce legislation may be- whether it is the present legislation or any future divorce legislation that we may enact- it simply will not be possible to remove all the unpleasantness which is associated with this traumatic period in a person's life. Neither the Bill nor the amendment can ever take that unpleasantness out of divorce. If it were possible to achieve such legislation I believe that every honourable member would support it. I do not believe that this Bill will provide the panacea for all the heartbreaks and expense of divorce litigation which it is claimed it will provide. This is the reason I am supporting the amendment. 
I draw attention to only 2 clauses of the Bill. They are clauses 43 and 48. I will deal very briefly with clause 43. It spells out the principles and philosophies of the Family Court. Nobody could possibly disagree with those provisions. Clause 43 deals with family provisions, the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage, the need to give the widest possible protection and asistance to the family, the need to protect the rights of children and the means available for assisting parties to the marriage to consider reconciliation. Nobody could disagree with them. They are highly commendable and are wonderful pious thoughts. Clause 43 asserts the need to assist and preserve the family. Clause 48 is the other clause to which I wish to refer specifically. I will read portion of clause 48 right on top of my summary of the principles contained in clause 43. It says, dealing with the dissolution of marriage: ... in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall be held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution of the marriage shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that the parries separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage. 
On the one hand, we have clause 43 asserting the need to assist and preserve the family and, on the other hand, we have clause 48 proposing that marriage should be brought to an end at the option of either party after a 12-months interval. Not being a lawyer, I believe that this means that . marriage would be the only legal contract which could be broken at the option of one party with the other party, who would be the offended party, being obliged to pay for the breach of contract if he or she opposed any relief sought by the first person or, in fact, sought any relief for himself or herself. Clause 117 of the Bill proposes that each party pay its own costs. For example, this means that if the wife is deserted and becomes involved in a defended maintenance proceeding, not only does she have the advantage of being deserted but also she has the very doubtful pleasure of having to pay for it. 
The Minister says that she will be given legal aid. She might not be satisfied with the quality of that legal aid. So far as I am concerned, if I were in that situation I would be wanting to choose my own legal adviser. 
Yes, and pay for it. This surely means that the already complex procedures of divorce would be made even more complex and, more importantly, more unfair especially so far as women are concerned. I think that it is not unreasonable to describe this as a man's Bill. 
-This is the next point I wish to make. The Attorney-General mentioned that all the women's groups are its strongest supporters. It concerns me very much that the women's organisations in this country, or many of them, are either silent or very strong supporters of the legislation. It concerns me because in my view if this legislation is carried in its present form it will culminate in discrimination against women. I think that these women's organisations should be drawing attention to this fact. I received a telegram from someone who lives in my electorate. It stated: 
Women's Electoral Lobby supports those who support the Family Law Bill. 
I take it that if I do not support the Bill the Women's Electoral Lobby will actively campaign against me. This distresses me. 
No, they did not have me very high on their list of preferred candidates last time, as my friend and colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  makes the point. He was very annoyed because they had him below me on their list of preferred candidates. 
No. I was on the bottom of the list and the honourable member for Wakefield was second last. 
There is no doubt about where we are on this legislation. I believe that women's organisations should be drawing attention to the discrimination against women which will be involved if this Bill is passed. In fact, they are doing just the opposite. It is all very well for professional women or women with a vocation; they have a degree of independence which gives them some immunity from the damage caused by this legislation. But most women in the community are not professional women. In my view these organisations represent only professional women; they do not represent the majority of women in the community. 
The effect of clause 48, in my view, would be especially damaging to young married couples and in particular to young married women. It would put them in the situation of women in some other countries where the husband partner can make a unilateral declaration of divorce with the old: 'I divorce you. I divorce you. I divorce you'. He says that three times and he is divorced. 
I regard this as a men only Bill. In the situation of a young married couple it surely must not be uncommon for the young wife, having had a row with her husband, to tell her friends and her family that she believes she has been involved in a major row with her husband. I suppose we have all seen this sort of thing. In many cases interfering parents and others encourage her to see a solicitor. From that moment there is a commitment to divorce. Twelve months after the date on which the husband or the wife claims cohabitation ceased the marriage is finished. I believe that there is a disadvantage also to men. For example, if this legislation were passed a wife unilaterally could seek and obtain a divorce from a husband who was out of the country for more than 12 months. What about the situation of someone in the Air Force at Butterworth or somewhere else? It is possible under this legislation that he could be divorced without ever being able to defend himself. 
The worst feature of the Bill is the way it discriminates against middle-aged wives with children. I think it is reasonable to claim that many of them have voluntarily entered the work force, but at least half of them- probably more- are still at home. Often they have not worked because their husbands virtually would not allow them to work. How many honourable members would be in that situation? I suppose I would have to put myself in that category. My wife is at home looking after the 3 children and I am the one who works. I do not want her to work. If I found a highly attractive young girl down the street and deserted my wife, under this legislation my wife would have to go out to work or prove to a court that she could not maintain herself adequately. Simply because a husband unilaterally serves notice to dispose of what he now regards as an inconvenience, the wife has to persuade the court that she cannot maintain herself, and she will be required to pay the costs of such a court appearance. In my view in this area women are grossly disadvantaged, especially compared with the situation under the existing legislation. 
To take the worst example in this middle-aged area- I believe we have to admit to middleagelet us consider the case of a middle-aged family in which the husband and father commits incest upon his daughter. At present if the wife wishes she may obtain a very early divorce simply by the threat of criminal proceedings. Perhaps that will be possible in the future. I do not know. I do not think so. But under this legislation she would have to support herself and wait for 12 months or continue to live in the same house with her husband and their children. I believe that these and many other provisions of the Bill prove that it is untrue to describe the philosophy of the legislation as being irretrievable breakdown of marriage. It is much more accurate to describe it as being abandonment or unilateral declaration. I do not believe that any of us can claim a mandate to support divorce legislation framed on that basis. I trust that the amendment will be passed in its existing form. I propose to support it. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-The position is as summed up by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson).  The Opposition still believes that the Australian Housing Corporation Bill is a bad Bill. 
That is very much a matter of opinion. We believe that it is a bad Bill, but in the 
Senate we had amendments to the Bill accepted by the Government and had some of the provisions taken out of it, Perhaps I should briefly refer to them. Naturally, as the Minister has implied, we will be supporting the amendments. We will be doing so for the very good reason that they were initiated by us. The Committee has decided to deal with both amendments together. Let us consider the first one. It relates to the reference to consultation with interested bodies in clause 10. Clause 10 reads: 
In the performance of its functions and exercise of its powers, the Corporation - 
That is the Australian Housing Corporation - shall - 
Up to that point the clause has remained unamended, but from then on we have completely reversed it. The original clause went on to read: have regard to the relevant responsibilities of authorities of Australia the States and Territories, local governing bodies and other interested bodies and consult with them where those responsibilities make it appropriate to do so. 
We have sought to reverse the clause completely. The Government agreed to our proposition. We have now come together with the view that the Corporation will in fact comply with all laws of the States, which is a reasonable sort of amendment. The fact that the Government has agreed would tend to confirm that. 
I turn to the amendment proposed to clause 49, which reads: 
Subject to this Act, the Corporation may acquire by agreement or by compulsory process any land for the purposes of the Corporation, including . . . land that is Crown land of a State. 
The Opposition objected strongly to that proposition when it was debated in this chamber. That proposition has now been amended. The amendment that we have had inserted goes on to say quite the opposite. It says that the Corporation may not acquire Crown land by compulsory process. I do not see any point in delaying the passage of this Bill and wasting the time of the Committee any further, but I would like to repeat that we believe that it is not good legislation and we look forward to the day when we will be able either to confirm or to disprove that it is going to solve all of Australia's housing problem's, as the Government has suggested that it will do. We believe that it will only exacerbate those problems and that not one extra person in Australia will receive housing accommodation as a result of it. However, we support the amendments. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1) How many copies of the publication Community have been printed. 
How many individuals and organisations are on the mailing list. 
) Will he make this list available to the Opposition. 
Will he invite Members of the Opposition to contribute to the publication. 
5 ) What is the cost of each issue. 
What are the names and qualifications of each contributor. 
Has any fee been paid to a contributor: if so, to whom and how much. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
Have any studies been undertaken on the. quality of water upstream from Albury? 
If so, who conducted the studies, what are the conclusions, and how much did they cost? 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How much housing land has the Tasmanian Government purchased with funds supplied by the Australian Government since 1 January 1974. 
What are the dates of the purchases, prices per acre and locations. 
What portion of the purchases are to be used for (a) State housing and (b) re-sale. 
How many living units can be built on the land purchased for State housing. 
How many living units were built in Tasmania for State housing for each year during the period 31 August 1972 to 30 September 1974. 
How much of the land purchased for re-sale has been processed. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to the delays which many approved applicants for loans under the Defence Service Homes Act are now experiencing? Does the Minister realise that administrative delays of 6 months are common and are resulting in greatly increased costs to applicants? Is he also aware that many exservicemen and ex-servicewomen are being forced to arrange bridging finance at excessive rates of interest because of these delays? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Has he or his predecessor received submissions from the originator of the market forecasting scheme known as BIMARK if so, when. 
Will implementation of the scheme be beneficial to Governments, the building industry and the Australian public. 
If so, what steps are being taken to implement the scheme. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the full cost of conveyancing for dwellings carried out by the Government Conveyancing Office. 
Does this include the cost of staff on loan from other sections and solicitors normally working in the AttorneyGeneral's Department. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
What are the terms and conditions under which terminating building societies/State Banks charge management fees to borrowers? 
Are they the same in each State; if not, what are the differences? 
-Before I say anything about this Bill, I should like to place on the record the fact that 9 other members of the Opposition wish to take part in this debate. It appears as though only half of them- if that many- will have the opportunity. This happened the last time we had a debate on a housing Bill. On that occasion when we were debating the Australian Housing Corporation Bill, we were gagged. I understand that it is likely to happen again. I do not criticise the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  because I think he would like to have more time to debate this Bill, as would members of the Opposition. 
In fairness to honourable members on our side of the House who wish to take part in the debate I should like to inform the House that the honourable members for Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  Darling Downs  (Mr Veigh),  Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  Petrie  (Mr Hodges),  Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  Ballarat  (Mr Erwin)  and Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  are prepared to take part in this debate this afternoon. I understand that 4 speakers from the Government side have scratched. For this reason, we are to be denied proper time for debate. 
I think I should make the point that during an earlier debate today we were also gagged. Some of the Opposition members I have just mentioned wished to take part in that debate. Later today we will be debating the Parliamentary Counsel Bill 1 975. Four speakers from the Opposition wish to speak in that debate and none from the Government side. Later we also will be debating the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Bill 1975. There are 9 speakers listed on our side and one on the Government side. On behalf of the Opposition I protest at the lack of concern that the Government has for giving us proper time to debate housing matters. I think that this exemplifies the Government's attitude to housing generally. The Government does not realise how important housing is in our economy. It does not realise how many people are suffering as a result of the lack of government policies. 
In relation to this Bill, I suppose we could say that the scheme was virtually terminated in August 1973. That was the occasion on which the then Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  made the announcement, in his Budget speech on 21 August, that from that moment on savings would no longer be eligible for a homes savings grant. That really was when the decision was taken to terminate the homes savings grant scheme. This means that anyone who has a grant must be prepared either to commence building or to buy a house before the end of 1976, which is 3 years after the 1973 Budget. Such a person will need to make application before the end of 1977. This relates to persons who have commenced building. This is a provision which applies within the legislation. I think it is fair enough that the Government has allowed an extension into 1 978 of 6 months to allow for documentation and such things as marriages to be finalised or documentary evidence to be supplied which could not be done by the end of 1977. June 1978 will see the end of this legislation. 
Another element contained in the Bill refers to the savings held in banks in Papua New Guinea. It makes it possible for these savings to be considered eligible for a grant. The Bill refers to the Department of Housing and Construction and drafting amendments are proposed to update references to the former Department of Housing. The last item in the Bill provides that the scheme may be administered, if necessary, by the Australian Housing Corporation. 
They are the 7 new elements contained in the Bill. The Minister, in his second reading speech had much to say about the tax deductibility scheme. I think that the Australian public and home seekers ought to be made to realise that the tax deductibility scheme is no substitute for the homes savings grant scheme. The tax deductibility scheme assists only people who already have a house. The homes savings grant scheme assists people who do not have a house. To that extent I think that the Government deserves censure for abolishing this scheme. 
Of course, but the point I am making is that the Government has in a way tried to mislead the public by suggesting that the tax deductibility scheme replaces the homes savings grants scheme. That is not true. One has to have a home before one can get any benefit out of the tax deductibility scheme. The homes savings grant scheme is to assist a person to buy a home. The Opposition is making the point that the tax deductibility scheme is discriminatory. I do not knock the scheme. I think it is a good one. It is a matter of getting it cleaned up and removing some of the discrimination which exists. The 
Government must admit that it does not really assist low income earners, which was its original purpose. It does not help people who do not have an income. It is not much help to the majority of pensioners. It does not help people who are nearing the end of their mortgage repayments. It discriminates against families which have 2 incomes. It discriminates against the selfemployed butchers, hairdressers, doctors and people of this type who have to wait until the end of a financial year to get any benefit. It discriminates against families vis-a-vis single people. 
I should like to cite an example of a person on an income of $5,000 a year. Such a person, with a wife and 2 children, under this scheme will save $145 during the year. A single person on $5,000 a year will save $3 1 9 in taxation. It discriminates against people with families. It discriminates in favour of persons who have larger mortgages. To that extent, it encourages people not to pay off their mortgages. It encourages them perhaps to extend themselves and buy a bigger or more expensive home than they would otherwise have bought. 
I shall give another example, of a person who earns $12,000 a year, which is approaching the upper limit. If he pays $3,000 in interest he benefits by $312. Someone else on the same income, who pays $2,000 a year in interest on a smaller mortgage benefits by $208. So the tax deductibility scheme which the Minister mentioned in his second reading speech is still fairly hairy and by no means could be described as the panacea for the Australian housing problems. It certainly does not replace the home savings grant. On page 3 of his second reading speech the Minister, referring again to this deductibility scheme, said that the Government had conducted an extensive campaign of publicity to inform interested people about its advantages. I would hope that the Government would conduct an equally extensive campaign to inform people of what is happening to the home savings grant. It is all very well to advertise the good news, but let us advertise some of the bad news. Many people will be disappointed as a result of the termination of this scheme. 
In a passing reference may I say how much all members of the Opposition deplore the way in which the Government- not necessarily this Department but certainly most of the Government departments- is spending money on advertising Government initiatives. It has almost reached the stage where it is spending money to advertise the Australian Labor Party. I cite as an example the very large advertisements for Medibank which, as we all know, are costing the taxpayerthat is all of us- nearly $2m. 

 Mr Les Johnson- But you cannot get into the Queensland newspapers for Bjelke-Petersen's ads. 
-The Minister refers to Queensland. I say, not only is this a disgraceful waste of taxpayers' funds; it is not even true. The particular advertisement I am holding at the moment says that Medibank will provide free medical insurance. As I am sure the Minister will agree, that is untrue. Nothing in this life is free. Just before the last election a campaign was run, which cost I think $60,000, advertising the advantages of becoming an Australian citizen. Advertisements such as the one I have in my hand appeared in most of the Australian newspapers showing a photograph of the former Minister for Immigration. The Government spent $60,000 of taxpayers' funds really to promote that Minister. A campaign is being run at the moment about customs declarations which purports to give taxpayers good news about customs changes and regulations which is bad news for those who are interested in this matter. That is a misuse of public funds. The advertisements of the Attorney-General's Department with its cartoons about the Trade Practices Act are another example. There are dozens of examples. I think the Government and the Minister should see that the Department spends some money in making people aware of the demise of the homes savings grant scheme. I also note that his Department has spent some money in promoting Labor Party policies and has issued a brochure which cost the taxpayer, from memory, up to $600 to distribute. It is entitled 'Housing under Labor'. If the Government can spend that sort of money distributing that sort of propaganda why can it not advertise what it is doing to the home savings grant? Not only is this a blatant example of political bias but also most of it is untrue. 
-We could have a debate on this later on if there is enough time. The advertising is very selective. I am conscious of the fact that there are people on our side of the chamber who wish to take part in the debate. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who will probably have his head chopped off in this debate, showed me a copy of an advertisement in the 'Toronto Star', a Canadian newspaper, in which the Department of Housing and Construction advertised for $2 1 ,000-a-year jobs. Surely to heavens we have enough people in Australia to do this sort of work. 

 Mr Jarman Enough unemployed, anyway. 
The number of unemployed, I think, is about 308 000. I remember that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  gave that figure in a debate earlier today. On top of the salary and desirable conditions that are advertised in the Canadian newspaper the advertisement states that the successful applicant will be entitled to 4 weeks recreation leave, maternity leave or paternity leave. And we wonder why we are stuck with inflation. 
The Opposition believes that the homes savings grant should never have been phased out and should have been retained. In fact we are committed to reintroduce it. I know that there has been quite a significant fall off in applications in the last 12 months. When the scheme was introduced in 1964 by a Liberal-Country Party government there were 24 000 applicants. This figure rose to about 40 000 for the last two or three years. This year it looks as though the number of applicants who will be eligible will not exceed 13 000. So it is pretty obvious that there are many thousands of disappointed Australians around the country. The report of the Department mentions a fall off last year and states that 37 per cent of applications were rejected because the applicants were above the statutory limit 
They were rejected because of the limit. That is what we are talking about. The Government should have increased the statutory limit in accordance with inflation. After all, the Government has caused inflation. It cannot say that we have done that. The reasonable suggestion to have been adopted would have been to lift the limit progressively. In 1972 the limit was $22,500. If one applies the inflation formula, since then that $22,500, which was the price of an average home in the Sydney metropolitan area, would have risen to $39,000 this year. The way that inflation is going, it will be $55,000 before we are able to have a change of government in 1 977. So the price will actually more than double. We believe that the limit should have been related to that increase all the time. 
There is no time to go into what we think the formula should have been but certainly the Government could have made the savings formula much more attractive. We believe that the scheme certainly should be amended in many ways. In fact we gave a commitment in our election campaign to do just that. We were going to abolish the age requirement. It seems rediculous that someone should be eliminated or be considered ineligible because he is more than 36 years of age. 
-Of course. That is what I am saying. As the years have gone by we have found things that should be changed, and this is one of them. 
It has taken only 3 years since the honourable members opposite came to office to destroy the scheme completely. But this is what we will do. We said we would do it in our election campaign. Perhaps a bank manager or a person who works in a stock agency or so on comes into the city to buy his first home at the age of 37 years but finds he is eneligible. Experience has shown that that is ridiculous. We would change the residential requirements. I am sure the Minister would agree with this. We would change the requirements dealing with marriage, which are a positive discrimination against single people. We would also change this arbitrary cut off figure. I suppose every honourable member has had examples of people who miss out on the grant because their house has cost in excess of the statutory limit of $22,500. 1 have had applicants come to me who have been a few dollars over because of a kitchen stove or something. We believe there should be a tapering scale, and when we get into office we will see that that is introduced. 
We believe that the abolition of the homes savings grants scheme discriminates against those who pay rent and those who do not have a home. The homes savings grant scheme was the only scheme that assisted people to obtain a deposit. So this scheme is damaging those who previously had a chance to bridge the deposit gap. We support completely the philosophy of home ownership. We doubt very much whether the Government seriously does. As I said, we will reintroduce the homes savings grant scheme when we are in government. 
I should like to refer to an article of the Minister's which appeared in the July 1974 edition of 'Housing Australia'. He will remember writing this article. The headline of the article reads: 
Government strategy set for a massive shin from private to public housing. 
Does the Minister remember writing that article? He nods. In it he said: 
The Federal Government expects that its monetary policy and manipulation of interest rates, deliberately designed to reduce demand . . . will make possible a substantial increase in the Government housing sector. 
For a low interest rate Party, the Labor Government has not done too badly; interest rates are higher than they have ever been before. The Government's aim is failing. 
I would like to refer to the editorial in the April edition of 'The Builder', which is the official organ of the Master Builders Association. It said: 
The aim - 
That is, the Government's aim-  of squeezing the private sector to channel building resources into public housing has not worked. 
Official statistics confirm this. If we deal with commencements- I think we should always deal with them rather than other figures- we find that, taking the 12 months' period from March 1974 to March this year, private sector commencements have dropped from nearly 38 000 to just over 25 000 which is a drop of about 13 000 commencements. During that time public sector commencements have risen but only from just over 3000 to a little over 4000. So what has happened is that the Government, in its efforts to build up the public sector, is killing the private sector of the building industry. In fact it is killing the private sector altogether. 
In the same article written by the Minister he said: 
The Labor Government took urgent action to rectify the position. 
He was talking about the crisis in the building industry and about pumping money into State housing authorities for welfare housing. Very modestly I thought, he used the first person and referred to himself as the innovator of the new deal for public housing. He said that the Government is maintaining welfare housing as its top priority. He went on to say that he was pleased because  Mr McGinty,  the New South Wales Minister for Housing, had told him that the Housing Commission in New South Wales would be constructing 5000 homes. That was last year. The postscript is not quite so healthy because the Master Builders Association of New South Wales, in the article to which I referred, said that there is a shortfall of $ 18m in loan funds for welfare housing by the New South Wales Housing Commission and this has meant that the programmed additional 6000 houses will be reduced to 5000, and that is not quite the same way as the Minister put it. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  who wishes to take part in this debate but who may not have the opportunity, tells me that in Sydney at the moment there are 150 million bricks stockpiled. That was a 6 months' supply of bricks when we were in government and when houses were being produced. The brick pits in New South Wales are working at less than half their capacity. As we all know, unemployment in the building and building supply sectors is really very serious. In the article to which I have referred and in many other places and on many other occasions the Minister has referred to the crisis that existed in the building industry when the Australian Labor Party took over the Government. I would like to make it clear that there was no crisis when the Government took over from us, but there is a crisis now. 
The Minister talks about approvals but I suggest we should be talking about commencements because surely the nearest thing to demand, statistically, would be commencements. Who knows what is the need? The need must be a great deal more than the demand because many people are entering the area now who need accommodation and who have no hope of securing it. The commencements for 1973- that year for which the previous Government was virtually responsiblewere 176 000. That was the peak year. Last year there were only 138 000 commencements, which meant that there was a shortfall last calendar year of 38 000 dwellings. This year there will be a shortfall of 68 000 dwellings. So by the time we get to the end of 1975 we will be over 100 000 houses short in this country. I believe that that is a crisis situation. By the end of next year, if this Government stays in power, we will have 176 000 houses short, which is one year's full supply. 
What always intrigues me about the Minister is that I have never known anybody who could dress up bad news and sell it as good news as well as he does. Last week in Adelaide he was commenting on the lift in approval figures and he was reported as saying that there was a building uplift. In the article in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' he was quoted as saying that the second half of the year 'should see a return to a buoyant level of activity in the housing industry'. The Opposition is saying that there is no likelihood of any such activity and that this Minister will be the first Minister ever to preside over the demise of the building industry. The shortfall is staggering. The escalation in the cost of building is enormous. The latest figures released by the Bureau of Statistics show that the cost of building an average modest home in Australia is escalating at more than $100 a week. These figures are confirmed. If one divides the number of approvals for dwellings into the value of approvals one will find that this cost escalation is confirmed also. There is no time to go into details, but one will also find that the escalation in cost in the private sector is about 22% per cent whilst the escalation in cost in the public sector is over 30 per cent. 
The Opposition believes that the abolition of the homes savings grant further exacerbates the building crisis. According to the annual report of the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Construction for 1973-74, more than 80 per cent of young people or people who were eligible for this grant and claimed it did so more than 3 years after marriage. This would probably indicate that most of them were living in flats and rental accommodation. There is a real crisis in the rental accommodation situation. Rental investment is virtually non-existent in this country now. There is no return on rental investment. The surcharge tax on so-called unearned income further inhibits people from putting their money into building flats. High income tax and lack of confidence in the Government, plus high interest rates, are lulling off investment in flats. This will further add to the crisis situation for young people. The Federal Pesident of the Commonwealth Institute of Valuers said in Hobart last month: 
People are frightened at the cost of development . . . The return an investor got on property for new building was now between  Vh  per cent and 3 per cent compared with up to 12 per cent in the past. 
Who is going to build flats under those conditions? While we were in Government and up until last year when this scheme was strangled, 40 000 people every year were helped to bridge the deposit gap with this grant. Those people will receive nothing now. The Opposition believes that the abolition of the grant will only worsen the crisis. 
The 2 recent statements by the Minister were ridiculous. In the first one he said that the future looked good. One does not need a crystal ball to see that the future looks bad. In his other statement in Adelaide last week he talked about the home buyers' service which he was planning. I think that the problem the Minister faces now is that there is no more bad news that he can dress up as good news so he is dreaming up some other ideas to distract us. I quote what he said in regard to a scheme he has come up with now: 
It seems absurd that people buying a car or boat can obtain cheap expert advice to avoid a bad buy, yet home seekers do not have ready access to a similar service. 
He suggested then that a new department should be set up, thereby increasing Government expenditure, so that for a fee of $50 people buying a house could have that house inspected. I direct the Minister's attention to a letter which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' yesterday. It was written jointly by the  President  of the South Australian Chapter of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects and the  Chairman  of the Architects Advisory Service. They make the point that such a service does apply now, at least in South Australia, and that anybody can arrange for an inspection for $20. There is no need to set up a new Government department with all the added costs this would entail. It can be done, it is being done and has been done for ages, by private enterprise. 
We believe that the great problem in this country is inflation. The only way in which to lower building costs and to get people into homes is by reducing inflation; and the only way in which that can be done is by cutting, not expanding, Government spending and by encouraging private enterprise. Who needs an insurance corporation and a housing corporation set up by the Government? An amount of $8m is to be spent on the establishment of a so-called growth development at Monarto in South Australia. I predict that that development will never come to pass, certainly not in its envisaged form. Why waste that money? Why pork barrel all that money down to Tasmania to assist the industries there which the Government has damaged? There is a very good reason, from the Government's point of view, and that is that the Labor Government holds 5 seats in Tasmania and looks like losing the five of them at the next election. 
The Government has established over 100 commissions and boards of inquiry. I know that ten of those commissions will cost $3m this year. Heaven knows what the 1 10 commissions and boards that now exists will cost to operate. Over 90 per cent of building in this country is provided by private enterprise and if the situation is reversed there will be no significant building in this country. 
I certainly do not blame private enterprise. It is governments that have the responsibility. I will conclude my remarks by quoting to the House what an important man in this Parliament believes is the cure of the nation's ills. This man said: 
Inflation is the great economic and social problem. It must be dealt with. The national Government alone in Australia can deal with it. It has the power to do so. An Australian 
Labor Party Government will never permit inflation or unemployment to be established in Australia. We have the power to prevent these things. We will use that power. 
That was said by  Dr Cairns,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister. We endorse those comments. The Labor Party is in Government now and it has the power but it is not using it. As a result of that, Australia's inflation rate has risen from 4 per cent to  22i  per cent and perhaps more. Perhaps it will be over 30 per cent by the end of the year. The medicine we would apply to reduce inflation would be to cut back Government spending and to stop murdering the private enterprise sector. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
When did the Leyland Company inform his predecessor of its approaching financial crisis. 
Did the company seek advice or assistance from the Government. 
3 ) If so, what was the response of his predecessor. 
What procedures were adopted in arriving at a value for (a) the land and (b) the plant. 
How many acres are involved, and what is the cost per acre. 
What procedures were adopted in arriving at the suitability of the land for residential building purposes. 
When were the procedures carried out, and by whom. 
8 ) Ho w is the land zoned. 
What communication has there been with the New South Wales State Authorities. 
Was an environmental impact report obtained. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to an election in a trade union in Adelaide which will be taking place this week. I am referring to the election of office bearers of the Australian Government Workers Association. I understand that the ballot papers for the election are being posted out probably today or tomorrow. I should like to draw the attention of the House to circumstances which existed within this particular union in South Australia last November.  Mr Thomson,  General Secretary of The Australian Government Workers Association, as it is called in South Australia, was suspended by the State Council of the Association. This union is a quite significant union in our State. It covers more than 8000 workers. These workers are all employed by the State Government. To that extent, they are being paid by taxes levied on those of us who pay taxes in South Australia. Last year  Mr Thomson  was suspended by the State Council for certain activities in connection with the anti- Vietnam War moratorium demonstrations. At that time he said his union's prison officers would not process any union members sent to gaol because of the demonstrations. People in that union describe the situation in it at that time as being in turmoil- I am referring to a report in the Press of 22 November 1974- and turmoil really did exist in that union with many staff changes, including the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary, several organisers and office staff. I believe that a number of office girls have left since January this year. That is what happened in November last year. 
What is really of more concern is what is happening in this month of this year. Once again, this union is having its election of office bearers. In effect I suppose I am speaking not only to the people of Australia but also to the people who run that Association. It is about to elect new office bearers. It seems to me incredible that one of the candidates for the position of organiser in that union, a  Mr George  Young, is permitted to nominate. In April last year the Engineering and Water Supply Branch of the Australian Government Workers Association carried a resolution requesting that the election of an organiser be delayed until there be conducted, to quote the minutes of that meeting: ... a thorough and exhaustive inquiry into the credentials of a candidate for the position of Organiser, namely George Young. 
It seems that  Mr George  Young has a long criminal record in New South Wales including breaking and entering, stealing, arson, larceny and assault. In 1965 this person was declared an habitual criminal. It seems to me that if these facts are true and it is the same person, then surely the voting members of the Association, which is an important union in South Australia, should know about them. If the facts are untrue then this gentleman deserves an apology. I claim that the State Council of the Australian Government Workers Association has no right to cover up these charges- certainly not if they are true. Furthermore, it has no right to expect its members to make the charges and expose themselves to possible retaliation, because if the charges are true then the sort of person who would be guilty of them would be the sort of person who would retaliate against a member or members who had sufficient courage to bring the matter up at a union meeting. If the union cannot ensure that persons with a record of thuggery and violence are not prevented from controlling the union, it seems to me that the Government should step in. If any members on the Government side wish me to table the documents that provide evidence of these charges I shall be happy to do so. The South Australian Government and the Federal Government are governments which penalise thrift, destroy incentive and reward indolence. They also subsidise smut. In the few moments remaining to me I should like to mention another matter that has concerned me for some time. There has been no other opportunity to bring it to the attention of the House. It relates to the recent approval by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for large sums to be made available in this country for the arts. I refer to a report in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' of 26 February- I am sure the report would be accurate- of grants made by the Government and approved by the Prime Minister for the arts in Australia. At that time, the amount of approved grants totalled nearly $3m. One particular grant that interests me and to which I draw the attention of the House is the grant of $2,322 made to a  Mr Martin  Fabinyi on the recommendation of the 
Film and Television Board. It so happens- I believe I am not doing this person any discreditthat this is the same  Mr Martin  Fabinyi who was convicted in Adelaide as a result of offences committed there during the Festival of Arts. I quote portion of an article which appeared in the Adelaide 'Advertiser' of 26 June 1974, which states: 
Martin Fabinyi . . . film maker ... of Darlinghurst, NSW, pleaded not guilty before  Mr 1.  E. Cameron, SM ... to having . . . aided and abetted a 17-year-old girl to behave in an indecent manner while visible from a public place, Elder Park. 
The sergeant who prosecuted said: . . . two police officers attached to the CIB vice squad had seen a large tent, bearing a sign 'RAGA Arts', at Elder Park during the Adelaide Festival of Arts. 
I am sure that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  will remember the incident. It happened in January or February of last year. The article continues: 
Inside, they had seen about SO men and women and about 15 children around a TV screen on which they could see a girl dancing. 
The article goes on to describe what had happened on the television screen and continues: 
The police officers had then moved to another part of the tent and had seen the girl committing the act behind a screen. 
Fabinyi had been pointing a TV camera at the girl. 
I do not want to go into detail, but what happened was an example of what I believe to be quite unnecessary obscenity in connection with the Festival of Arts. The person who produced the film and showed it on television in the presence of young children as well as adults was subsequently prosecuted, convicted and sentenced to 28 days imprisonment in the Adelaide Jail. All of these things may seem to you,  Sir, to  be irrelevant but what is not irrelevant is that the same person earlier this year received a grant from the Labor Government to produce more films without any control over what these films are to be. I believe that this is a gross misuse of public funds. In fact, the Labor Government is subsidising the production of pornographic and obscene film material. 
-The honourable member for Prospect, who takes an excessive interest in these matters, says that I would be the one to go and watch it. 
-He says: 'Look who is talking about it'. It seems to me that he should be concerned with the morality of spending public funds to produce pornographic material. That is typical of this Government. I repeat that it penalises thrift, destroys incentive, rewards indolence and laziness and subsidises- 
-The purpose of the Housing Loans Insurance Bill is for the Government to absorb the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation into the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. In his second reading speech the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  stated that the affairs of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation will be administered by the AGIC. But there is no doubt in our minds that the intention of the Government is to absorb totally the HLIC into the AGIC. For this reason we are certainly not pleased with the Bill. What I am concerned about at this early stage in the debate is the fact that it seems unlikely that a number of members of the Opposition will be able to take part in the debate. The following honourable members are listed to speak in the debate: The honourable members for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman),  Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh),  Bradfield  (Mr Connolly),  Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  Stirling  (Mr Viner),  Deakin  (Mr Jarman),  Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  They all wish to take part in this debate on housing. On the last 2 occasions this opportunity was denied them by way of the gag. We rather suspect that this could happen again tonight, so I place on record once again my protest at our treatment by the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  when we want to debate Bills on housing. 
Getting back to the Bill, we take the view that the Government is acquiring the assets of the HLIC on the cheap. There are significant assets amounting to something like $ 15.5m. We think this is a rather sneaky way of acquiring those assets for the proposed Corporation. We feel unhappy about that. We are also concerned that the board members of the HLIC will be phased out, I suppose would be the expression. We believe that the HLIC has been a highly successful Corporation, and the success of the Corporation must be due to the people who run it, the board members. So we express some concern about this. We note that the board members at some stage will be given jobs in some other government corporation, but we make the point that with a staff of 37 the HLIC has been one of the most successful government corporations that has ever been set up. 
We also make the point that it was set up by the Liberal-Country Party Government in November 1964. The Minister for Housing at the time was the honourable Les Bury. He made the point that the purpose of the HLIC was to underwrite loans for persons who require mortgages and in that way to assist the lending institutions, such as building societies and banks and other institutions, and to give them some confidence in making advances to people on low incomes. I think the activities of the HLIC have endorsed the confidence of the then Government. To that extent, I refer to the 1973-74 report of the HLIC which indicates that borrowers of HLIC insured loans were generally those of average means with just on one-half having incomes of less than $125 a week and two-thirds having incomes of less than $150 a week. So the aim of the then Government- a Liberal-Country Party Governmentto make this facility available for low to middle income earners has, I think, been achieved. It is a credit to the board and to the Government of the time. It was also one of the aims of the Corporation, as explained by the then Minister, to eliminate the need for second mortgages. I think we can say that has been another successful element of the HLIC right up until the last two or three years. Since Labor has been in government however, we have seen inflation galloping from 4 per cent to 22  Vi  per cent in the building industry. I was interested to note, I think some time in March, that a regulation was gazetted which now gives the HLIC power to underwrite second mortgages. This would certainly be something we would do in government. 
The then Minister made the point that the intention of the Corporation was to help bridge the deposit gap. I think that over the years we were in government, until two or three years ago, we were successful. But no longer can young people buy a home and successfully bridge the deposit gap. We are concerned that with inflation in the building industry running in excess of 22  Vi  per cent, the Government should take steps to abolish the homes savings grant. There is now no legislation which makes it possible for young people, or in fact any person without a home, saving to buy a home, to attract some government subsidy to assist in bridging the deposit gap. We deplore the Government's action in abolishing the homes savings grant and we place on record once again our intention when we get back into government, which will be within the next 2 years, to reintroduce that grant and to take at least that step towards bridging the deposit gap, which was one of the intentions of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. Another of the things we will do in government will be to lift the statutory limit for eligibility for the homes savings grant, which at the moment is only $22,500. That limit applied in 1972 when Labor took office. It is quite unreal and was unreal when it was decided to phase out the grant. A house in Sydney which was worth $22,500 in 1972 is worth $39,000 today. I do not think that reflects very great credit on the Labor Government. 
We shall eliminate some of the unsatisfactory features of the scheme such as the residential qualification which requires a person to have lived in Australia for 3 years. We believe that requirement is unreal. We shall phase off the statutory limit so that persons will acquire some grant even though their houses may be worth more than the statutory limit. We shall abolish such things as the 36 years age limit. 
-The Special Minister of State says he endorses that. I cannot understand why he abolished the grant. We shall also eliminate the restriction on single persons because we believe there is strong discrimination against women and men who are unmarried. We will expand the activities of the HLIC. We will not destroy it. We believe that by absorbing the HLIC into the Australian Government Insurance Corporation the Government in fact will destroy it. It will disappear as a viable separate entity. 
Another of the things we would like to do in government would be to expand the HLIC activities in respect of low income earners. At the moment a person with a high income is eligible for a higher mortgage than is a person on a low income. This seems to be contrary to the spirit of the intention of the original Housing Loans Insurance Corporation Act. We will do something about reversing that procedure. We cannot understand why- perhaps there is a reason for it and we will look at it in government- in special circumstances it is not possible to insure 100 per ent of a mortgage. 
In South Australia the Housing Trust- I believe there are similar provisions in some other States- sells homes to some families on low incomes for what was 50 deposit. It was known as the Playford scheme. That exists today. I have been told by the Manager of the 
South Australia Housing Trust that he does not think they have had a single default. People will tend to give up just about everything before they will give up their home. These are the things that we would look to see happen in relation to the HLIC. 
In government we would also look at the possibilities of having a secondary mortgage market. This was mentioned by  Mr Bury  in his second reading speech back in 1 964. There has not been a great deal done on this, but this is the sort of thing we believe will assist people to obtain homes because it will assist the building societies in remaining liquid. The question of the deposit gap does concern us. At the moment the cost of a modest home in Australia is increasing at  22Vi  per cent a year. This situation has been consistent for months and months. In the case of a home costing, say, $25,000, the cost is increasing by over $ 100 a week. There was a report in a South Australian newspaper only two or three days ago that the cost of a modest home in South Australia is increasing at $ 1 50 a week. Similarly, there has been a report that in Victoria the cost of an average modest home is increasing by $160 a week, and in some cases, depending on the suburb, by $180 a week. So it is obvious that it is not possible for people to save at this rate and be able to bridge the deposit gap. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction said at some stage- I think it was two or three years ago, probably in October 1973- that the Labor Government would build one million homes in the next 5 years. We believe that this is absolutely impossible at the moment. I say 'at the moment' because only yesterday building approval figures were released which indicated that the building approvals for this calendar year are averaging about 10 000 a month. If we relate that figure to commencements, which is what one shold do when considering the number of houses that will be built in the country, and take the base year of 1973 for Australia's requirements, in 1973 we find that 176 000 homes were commenced. Last year only 138 000 homes were commenced, which means that last year we were short by 38 000 homes. At the present rate of approvals and bringing that down to what we believe would be commencements, we will finish this year with about 108 000 homes, which is 68 000 short of what would be reasonable requirements. 
This means that by the end of this year Australia will probably be short by over 100 000 home dwelling units of one form or another. At the same rate of building, by the end of next year we will be one full year's supply behind. I think this is a really deplorable record on Labor's part since it has been in office. I do not think it is any good blaming the Minister for Housing and Construction or singling him out for criticism. The whole of the Labor Government- the ministry, the members and the Caucus- are equally responsible. It is not just a single Minister involved, it is the Labor Party's policies which are ruining the economy. It is the Labor Party's policies which are ruining the building industry. 
I think that the Minister for Housing and Construction was out of touch about a fortnight ago- on 6 May to be precise- when he commented on last month's approval figures. The Minister said that the second half of the year should see a return to a buoyant level of activity in the housing industry'. I say that the Minister for Housing and Construction is superbly positioned to put out Press releases of bad news dressed up as good news. I have never known anybody so good at it. The building industry is not buoyant; the building industry is at the point of destruction. This is very bad news not only for the building industry, for those who are employed in the building industry and the supporting industries which represent 20 per cent of the work force, but also for all those who are the consumers in the area of building. Those are the people who are seeking accommodation. 
One of the important duties of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation and one of its most outstanding successes has been the way it has helped into a home people who did not have a home. On behalf of the Opposition I compliment the Government for the way the Board has operated the HLIC. For two or three years, ever since the Labor Government has been in office, the Minister for Housing and Construction and in particular the Minister who represents him in the Senate- the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)-  have continued to talk about the 93 000 people who are waiting for accommodation in Australia. They say that there are 93 000 people who are listed on Housing Commission or Housing Trust waiting lists. So today I canvassed the Housing Commissions around Australia to find out just what the position was at the end of March, because the March figures are the most recent figures I could get. The position at the end of March was that almost 107 000 people were waiting for accommodation on the various Housing Commission and Housing Trust waiting lists around Australia. 
It is interesting to note that the second highest figure is recorded for South Australia which of course has a socialist Labor Government, of the same type as this Federal Government. Here is a situation where the Government could introduce all its socialist policies in the federal sphere and have them supported in the State sphere and there has been total non-success as far as housing is concerned. There are almost 27 000 people in South Australia on the waiting list for Housing Trust accommodation. Of course this is even more serious than it first appears because the needs test applied by this Labor Government to the Housing Trusts and Housing Commissions eliminates many people who deserve to be on the waiting list. Because of the needs test. There must be thousands and thousands of people who are really in need of accommodation and who are not counted as statistics. 
I believe that the situation in Western Australia is serious. My colleague the honourable member for Stirling has told me that in addition to the 15 500 people waiting for accommodation in Western Australia, there are thousands of unknown people who are pensioners because the figures in Western Australia do not include pensioners. The principal criticisms which we have are that we believe that the HLIC should remain as it is and be an independent corporation. It functions efficiently and we do not believe that it will function any better when it is absorbed by the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. We feel strongly about the establishment of the AGIC. The Bill to set it up was drafted without any consultation with the insurance industry. It will add to public spending; it will add to inflation; it will add to the long list of people waiting for accommodation. There are no new benefits in having a Government Insurance Corporation. In South Australia last year- I believe it is the same in one or two other States- the Government Corporation lost $4m. So we have ridiculous competition. We have a State Government Insurance Corporation, a Commonwealth Government Insurance Corporation and then a private industry. Every time a government instrumentality is set up funds are taken away from the private sector. I would like to quote what the New South Wales  President  of the Terminating Building Societies had to say about the housing situation in Australia and what is happening to housing funds. As honourable members will know, terminating building societies- a group of entirely responsible building societies- have been handling funds for low income housing in some places for 100 years. I believe that at the moment 46 per cent of the Commonwealth-State housing funds are distributed through the terminating building societies. 
The point is relevant because we are talking about the AGIC and how we believe that it is undesirable that the HLIC should be absorbed into the AGIC. I shall quote what the New South Wales  President  of the Terminating Building Societies had to say in his annual report. He said: 
The economic situation, particularly high interest rates, has been a major factor in the reduced funds made available from traditional institutional lenders. We are therefore more dependent than ever on funds from the CommonwealthState Housing Agreement. 
If one examines that report it will be found that the insurance companies, the superannuation funds and the banking institutions are making less and less money available to the terminating building societies. One of the reasons is that the Government is placing that sort of pressure upon the private sector. We believe that this sort of legislation should not be passed until the Senate inquiry on supernnuation and national compensation is presented to the Parliament. We do not believe that there is any need for legislation of this sort. There are 45 life insurance companies in Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: to enable the provisions of the Bill to be more adequately considered, the House is of opinion that further progress of the Bill should be deferred until the Budget sittings 1975'. 
I shall go briefly over the points raised in the debate last night. The purpose of this Bill is for the proposed Australian Government Insurance Corporation to absorb the activities and assets of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. The Opposition is not in favour of this move. We believe that the board of the HLIC and its staff have been efficient over the years. We can think of no single reason to absorb the Corporation into a proposed new bureaucracy which would probably reduce its efficiency. We believe this is a snide way for the Government to take over the Corporation's assets. 
Briefly, the functions of the HLIC are to underwrite the mortgages of low income borrowers from lending institutions and to encourage lending institutions to grant loans to those people. In introducing the Bill for the establishment of the HLIC in 1964, the Minister for Housing of the Liberal-Country Party Government said that the purpose of the Corporation was to help to bridge the deposit gap. We believe that this Labor Government, presently and temporarily in office, is cynical and in fact has no intention of seeing that young people are able to bridge the deposit gap. This Government has abolished the homes savings grant. The rate of cost increases in the building industry, which we all know are rising by 22.5 per cent a year, means that an average home in Australia worth, say, $25,000 is increasing in price by more than $ 100 every week while wages in the building industry are increasing by 35 per cent a year. This makes it completely impossible for most people in Australia to save enough to bridge the deposit gap. One of the functions of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation was to bridge this gap. We believe that this Government has destroyed that function. 
I mention briefly a comment made by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  at question time today when he was referring, I think, to the number of building approvals which have flowed as a result of savings bank loans. I will not know exactly what he said until tomorrow when I read the Hansard record, but he indicated that the number of approvals has increased. I think he mentioned a figure of 30 per cent or 40 per cent. But the position is that overall building approvals are actually decreasing. It is no good considering just what is happening as a result of savings bank building approvals. In fact, we believe that one should not consider approvals in isolation; we should be talking about commencements. However, approximately 1 1 000 approvals will be granted this month; 10 000 were granted last month; 9000 in February and about 7000 in January. This means that the average building approval rate in Australia at the moment is about 10 000 a month. This is at least 40 per cent below what it should be. There should be 14 500 building approvals every month to keep up with Australia 's requirements for housing. In 1975 the commencement rate in Australia was 1 76 000 houses. Last year there were only 138 000 commencements, and this year it seems though there will be about 108 000 commencements. This means that at the end of this year Australia will be more than 100 000 houses short of requirements. I do not think any government or any Minister for Housing and Construction could be proud of this non-achievement. 
Today the Minister talked about the $150m which the Government put through the savings banks on January or February this year to assist the building industry. As I understand it, between 70 per cent and 80 per cent of that $ 1 50m is being used to purchase lived-in houses, not new houses. It has not helped the building industry at all; it has helped, in the main, people to remortgage. I think that the Minister should be pulled up when he makes these assertions. Last night I criticised the establishment of the AGIC- I will not go through the reasons as I do not have the time- because it is being established for many purposes that we do not support. We do not think there is any need for it. Last night I made the point that we believe there are sufficient insurance companies in Australia to cater for those who need insurance. There are 45 life assurance companies and about 260 general insurance companies in Australia. Of course aU of the States have their own State government insurance offices. In fact the State insurance office in South Australia which is the State from which I come, made a gigantic loss of $4m in its second year of operation. 
The point is that it is making a loss and the general taxpayer is picking up the tab. There is no need for that because the private insurance companies are prepared to carry the insurance. The Australian Government Insurance Corporation will enjoy many unfair advantages. It will be exempt from the provisions of the Insurance Acts and the Life Insurance Act. It will be exempt from State companies legislation, the provisions of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act, stamp duty and fire brigade charges. I believe that private insurance companies carry 75 per cent of the running costs of fire brigades. We are strongly opposed to the establishment ofthe AGIC. We believe that if it absorbs the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation the operations which were carried on by that Corporation will become typically inefficient in a government bureaucracy and the taxpayer will be forced to pick up the tab. 
We do not believe that what the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said about making this Corporation competitive is a true and honest statement ofthe situation. There is no time to mention fully the question of interest rates as mentioned in the annual report of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation. The Corporation increased the insurance rate payable to 12 per cent. But I think that it is worth putting on record what the Prime Minister of Australia said when he was the Leader of the Opposition. Speaking to the Bill to establish the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation in 1964 the Leader of the Party that claims to believe in low interest rates said: 
This will be the fourth increase in interest rates on housing loans since this Government took office. 
He went on to complain about the increase in interest rates when we were in Government. At that time the interest rate was 5 per cent per annum. Today it is up to 12 per cent. In fact the Minister for Housing and Construction, who is at the table, echoed the present Prime Minister's sentiment's in an answer to me on 17 October last. By golly he is not too good at predicting the future. He said: 
The Government intends to promote a general reduction in interest rates as soon as this is practicable- 
I ask the Minister, when he replies, to tell us when that will be. At the moment the Government itself is paying interest of 9.5 per cent to holders of its bonds, the interest rate in the market place is 12 per cent per annum and it is 1 8 per cent per annum for bridging finance. The position today is that any person with an income between $ 1 60 and $200 a week has no hope of buying his own home because he simply cannot finance a mortgage. 
I think the comments of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  are even more significant. I quote a report of what the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer had to say on 4 December. After all, that is nearly 6 months ago and it seems to me that there has been time for the Government to introduce its innovations. The report states: 
In Canberra the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns,  yesterday 
That was on 3 December -  predicted that interest rates on housing loans would be cut by a couple of per cent early next year. 
We are nearly to the end of May. That is past early next year' and the interest rates are unchanged. In fact, if I were inclined to bet, I would have a small bet with the Minister for Housing and Construction that interest rates will go up in spite of what the Deputy Prime Minister and Treasurer said. In the same report the Prime Minister was reported as saying that there was a very distinct possibility- in fact he said that he would say there was a probability- that general interest rates would fall. I wonder what sort of people are running this country. This is the Prime Minister of the country- the Deputy Prime Minister is also the Treasurer - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. Is the amendment seconded? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Housing and Construction been drawn to the abnormally low level of building approvals reported by the Bureau .of Statistics for the last 12 months? Does it indicate that the $150m which was channelled through the banks last year to assist the building industry is being used substantially to purchase established homes or for remortgaging purposes and has been of little use to the industry? 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
In view of the Government's decision to prevent the distribution of unsolicited bank cards, will the Government take similar action to prevent the distribution of unsolicited pornographic material. 
Is the Government able to prevent the use of post office boxes in the Australian Capital Territory being used for this purpose. 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware that the Government has a commitment to appoint a nominee of the Returned Services League of Australia to the 
Board of the Australian Housing Corporation? If so, what steps are being taken to make that appointment? 
-I was interested to listen to the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  and his rather passionate address, especially when he said- I think he repeated himself once and perhaps twice, and I think I quote him fairly- that 85 per cent of Australians had never been better off in their lives. He went on to talk about Australians who can afford 2 cars and families with 2 cars and colour television. I would put the view that a great many people in Tasmania, probably the majority, do not agree with him. Fifty-nine per cent of the electors of Bass confirmed this view just a few weeks ago. He mentioned welfare housing but did not mention the amount of the reduction in expenditure on welfare housing in Tasmania. There will be a reduction of $4m. I quote what the spokesman on housing in the Opposition in the Tasmanian Legislative Assembly had to say. He said: 
With housing demand in Tasmania the highest in 25 years, it is shameful that the effect of this cut will mean a 30 per cent reduction in homes to be made available. 
I do not really think that there is very much that the people who live in Tasmania could be grateful for to this Government, the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  or the Budget. I must regretfully disagree with my friend, the honourable member for Wilmot. I am not at all sure that we can expect to see him here for another Budget. He mentioned that 70 000 people are always out of work. He went on to say that in his view married women whose husbands are working have no right to be classed as unemployed. I think that the Women's Electoral Lobby might have a view on that. It could well place him below me in its popularity ratings. The position is that the Government has, by its policies, forced families into a 2-income situation. It has forced wives to go out to work just to maintain their living standards. 
-They are forced to do it to retain the eduction standard for their children and to meet growing interest rates and other items. 
-What I want to refer to is not the inane interjections to which one becomes accustomed from some honourable gentlemen in this place. I draw the attention of the House to the tremendous damage which the Government has done to the building and construction industry since it was elected just over 3 years ago. Unfortunately the Budget will only make things worse for the building industry not only for those who rely on the production of accommodation, those who are the end users, but also for those who work in the industry. 
The Treasurer has implied that the Government is cutting back on its expenditure and is doing some of the things it is necessary to do to reduce inflation. I believe the truth is that there is a continuing enormous increase in Government expenditure averaging a little over 22'A per cent across the board. Ironically there are only 2 areas where the Government has cut back. One is the area of industry assistance and development, where the decrease in the coming year will be about $300m. The other is the area of housing, where the decrease will be over $69m. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table dealing with the reductions and increases which is actually a Budget paper and the incorporation of which has been approved by the Minister for Environment  (Mr Berinson)  at the table. 

<graphic href="096131197508275_65_11.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_66_12.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. It seems entirely inappropriate that in one of the areas where the Government could be encouraging the private sector- that is this area of industry assistance and development- it is actually cutting back. One does not need to be a graduate in economics to know that the private sector is the sector which creates job opportunities, and yet the agricultural and pastoral industries have been cut back in excess of $200m and the mining and manufacturing industries by $117m. It seems a classic case of double standards. When we examine the detail which appears in the Budget we find that export incentive grants will be cut back by nearly $60m. While these cuts will certainly have an effect on employment in the future, the equally savage cuts in the area of housing can only add to the unemployment and social problems in the community. This is from a government which falsely claims, in my view, to represent the worker. The well being of the building industry and its manufacturing support industries is vital to a very large number of Australian families. Almost 20 per cent of the employed work force, fairly close to one million Australians, are employed in these industries which are very sensitive to Government policies. 
Gross fixed capital expenditure on dwellings alone was 23 per cent of the total gross fixed capital expenditure in Australia in 1973-74. It seems not unreasonable to claim that about 50 000 of Australians presently unemployed are unemployed as a result of Government policies damaging the building and building support industries. If the Government continues in its 

<graphic href="096131197508275_66_12.jpg"></graphic>

present manner we could find half a million Australians unemployed early in the new year, I believe this will happen, and it follows that 100 000 of them will come from the building industry and its support industries. The Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  claimed last Tuesday that he could see evidence of a recovery of private home building everywhere. This is, I believe, absolute nonsense. The number of private dwellings being commenced is still approximately 4500 a month fewer than Australia's normal requirements. If this rate continues, and there is every indication that it will, there will be an accumulated shortfall of 80 000 homes by the end of next December. This is a direct result of the Labor Government's disastrous economic policies since it came to power. Public housing or so-called welfare housing allocations in the Budget have been reduced by $69m. 
There is an actual reduction of $69m, and that figure would be even worse if we considered the inflation factor, which of course we must. There are reductions in this area. If we assume an inflation factor of 20 per cent- I think that is reasonable- public housing completions will be severely reduced in each of the States and the Territories. The State housing commissions, for example- these are the authorities which provide accommodation for disadvantaged and underprivileged people both for rental and for sale purposes- will build 2000 dwellings fewer during the coming year. The Home Builders Account- that is the money advanced at a low rate of interest to finance low income home ownership, which Labor claims to support- will be severely cut back to the extent that nearly 5000 fewer dwellings will be financed in the coming year. 
The defence services homes allocations are also being cut. They are being reduced by $7,500,000. When we apply the inflation factor and compare the number of homes that were built last year, we will find that there will be a loss of more than 500 loans to ex-servicemen in the current year, which means a loss of 500 homes. At the moment I believe the waiting time for a first mortgage loan under the Defence Service Homes Act is almost 12 months. I suspect that the Government will continue to mismanage the economy and that the waiting time could be extended even further. This means that exservicemen will be forced into bridging finance at very high rates of interest. 
In the Territories under Commonwealth jurisdiction, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, there is another cutback of public funding for housing. We predict a loss in production of nearly 700 houses in the Territories controlled by the Federal Government. The total loss in the public sector will be nearly 8000 homes. Some time before the Budget the Minister for Housing and Construction announced that there would be no cutback to the States for their welfare housing purposes. He was subsequently proven to be mistaken or misled or less than honest. There have been substantial cutbacks in excess of $20m to at least three of the States. While the Minister-has been busy attacking the New South Wales Government, unfairly I believe, and making the point that there were no, cutbacks in New South Wales, he has not mentioned the cutback of $4m in Western Australia and Tasmania and the massive cutback in Queensland of $12. 8m. He also has not drawn attention to the fact that the inflation factor actually enlarges the cutbacks and that even those States where there is no reduction in allocation are therefore being cut back. 
All sections of the building and construction industry are now seriously under-utilised and it seems to us that this under utilisation will increase in the future and that it could reach a figure of even 50 per cent not only in the housing industry but also in the non-residential building industry. The cutback in welfare housing therefore will affect very seriously those on low incomes and those presently without accommodation. In addition, the new rebate tax system, in the way that it has been worked out by the Government- I do not knock the systemwill discriminate very heavily against young people on low to moderate incomes who are very often saving for a home. The cost of a modest home has been increasing by more than $100 a week and this alone prevents the great majority of young people from saving sufficient to bridge the deposit gap. The new taxation system places an even bigger burden on young couples who are both working and trying to save for their first home or for any other purpose. 
I take the example of a taxpayer on $ 135, and according to the Treasury people with this income represents about 70 per cent of the taxpaying population. These young couples will actually pay more tax than they do under the present system and they will' pay more even though they have dependent children. The taxation proposals outlined by the Treasurer are nothing more or less than a gimmick. How can any government justify taxation policies which allow tax cuts to certain groups in the community, which will cost $205 in the current year, and yet impose a tax on beer which alone will bring in $246m in a full year? As the Leader of the Opposition illustrated, I thought very well last night, almost everybody in the taxpaying community will be worse off. 
It is a very appropriate interjection, I agree. The true extent of the damage done to the building industry does not seem to be understood by the media and does not receive very much attention from the media, probably because it is not hard news. If we examine the different sections of the building industry, we see the present situation is bad enough, but the future is likely to be catastrophic. Taking the non-residential building industry as an example and comparing the value of work completed with the inflation factor stripped out, on 1966 prices the result clearly demonstrates the problems of this important section of the industry. If we compare the value of commencements in March 1974 on this basis with the value of commencements in March 1974 this year, the figure is halved. It was $200m in March 1974 and is slightly less than $100m for March 1975. If we equate commencements with demand, which I think is reasonable, it means that demand for non-residential building is more than halved. 
From what I hear from qualified people who study this industry, it appears that there is very little new work in the pipeline, so demand will probably diminish further and no government can take any satisfaction from creating a situation which has practically, destroyed the whole building industry. Completions over the same period follow very much the same pattern. Completions in March 1974 were worth about $200m, which is roughly the same as the value of commencements. I suppose we could say that is a fairly healthy supply and demand situation, but the completions to March this year are worth only $ 170m and I believe there is very little new work around. We predict that this figure must taper off disastrously in the very near future. 
The reasons are probably obvious. In the first place, those who are responsible for unreasonable wage demands are putting themselves in the position of lulling their industry and putting the members of their unions out of work. They are in fact pricing building labour out of the market. It seems to me that the types of people who lead these unions are not really interested in work at all, they just want trouble. With the industry as sick as it will be in the near future, the only way we can get out of it, I believe, is for the trade union leaders in the building industry to use some common sense. Other reasons for the problems are fairly general. There is absolutely no confidence in the business community to invest in new buildings or to expand present buildings. We have the very high interest rates which are keeping in line with inflation. Even the overdraft interest rate if one's overdraft is in excess of $50,000 is 13Vi per cent. This does nothing to assist the confidence of the business community nor does it help solve their liquidity problems. 
The very high taxation scales are well known. In this Budget the Treasurer announced that he will reduce company taxation. That is a sound proposal but I wonder whether he realises that there are few businesses, certainly small businesses, making any profit anyway, so this will not have very much effect on business confidence. The long service leave provisions are deadly to business whether it be a building company or some other form of private enterprise. In South Australia employees have absolute entitlement to long service benefits after 7 years service and for those employers who have always encouraged and looked after their staff, this has become a very serious imposition. It is further exacerbated by the taxation laws which do not allow business to make provision for this charge in profit and loss accounts. 
Another reason for the serious downturn in the building industry is the constant attack by the Government upon the insurance industry. The insurance industry has traditionally provided significant investment in the private sector and especially in the housing and building supply sectors of industry. It follows that government interference whether by way of unfair competition or manipulation through the taxation laws will reduce the supply of funds available to these corporations for their traditional portfolio investments. I would like to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which shows the portfolio investment of the Australian Mutual Provident Society. It is on the public record. I have shown it to the Minister and he has agreed to its incorporation. 

<graphic href="096131197508275_69_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_69_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_69_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_69_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_69_14.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_69_15.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="096131197508275_70_16.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. This list shows that the insurance industry supports more building suppliers than any other industry. It also supports developers, building contractors and the whole range of the private sector. Anything that damages the insurance industry damages this sector of private industry and damages the opportunity for people to buy houses. The residential building industry is similarly depressed and nowhere is this more obvious than in private investment in rental accomodation. I might say that insurance corporations have also been traditional supporters of terminating building societies which have provided low cost accommodation for low income earners. This is disappearing rapidly. 
The question of rental accomodation is a very serious one. It is estimated that persons intending to invest in rental accommodation will be lucky to obtain returns much better than 6 per cent. They could get 1 4 per cent on first mortgage. Private investment in rental accommodation is unattractive for a number of other reasons. Lending institutions are reluctant to lend a very high percentage of the value of buildings and as a consequence investors and developers or speculators, call them whatever you wish, are forced into large second mortgages at very high rates of interest, which at the moment are as high as 17V4 per cent Rent control is a distinct possibility, especially in the Labor States, and so is a capital gains tax. At least the Government got rid of its surcharge tax on so-called unearned income which was one of its more stupid pieces of legislation. Zoning by-laws and the consequent uneconomic land use in many urban areas also tend to work against development in rental accommodation. There is a movement in Australia for investors to get out of their rental accommodation investments and large numbers of rental units are being strata tided and sold off. There is no way of obtaining an accurate estimate of the rental position in Australia at the moment but it seems likely that the increase in rents over the last 12 months has been averaging approximately  33V)  per cent. As inflation continues and the rental apartments become in short supply, rents will also increase. Those who will suffer first are those on low incomes, the disadvantaged, and the underprivileged in the community. 
The purpose of welfare advances to the States is to assist in this area, and the reduction in these advances in the Budget has meant that the housing commissions will be unable to continue at the same rate to build housing or rental accommodation for low income earners. When Labor came into office there were 93 000 Australians on housing commission waiting lists. The Minister is still clinging to that figure, but in March there were 107 000 people on housing commission waiting lists. This afternoon I obtained some figures from the South Australian Housing Trust which indicate that in South Australia the number of people on the Housing Trust accommodation waiting list is increasing by approximately 350 a month. It seems likely to us that at this very moment there could well be more than 120 000 on waiting lists, with many others being excluded because of the needs test which applies. In fact, the real problem are those in society who are underprivileged, but this is disguised because of the needs test obligations. This Government stands condemned for its double standards, its wastefulness, its cockeyed priorities and, above all, for the callous, inhuman way in which it treats those people whom it arrogantly believes will support it blindly to the end. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Government consider providing some form of taxation incentive to promote (a) low income housing activity and (b) urban rehabilitation and development. 
What positive steps have been taken to subdivide the land owned by the Albury/Wodonga Development Corporation. 
How much of the land has been allotted to the private sector, and what are the terms. 
Are there prospects of new industries being established in Albury/Wodonga during 1974. 
) If so, what details are available. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What arrangements have been made with Leichhardt Municipal Council in respect of the future payment of council rates on the Glebe Lands. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice 
1 ) What criteria are used to decide which South African citizens will be granted entry visas into Australia and which will not. 
Does the same set of principles apply to Members of the South African Parliament as to officials of South African sporting associations. 
Are all Members of the South African Parliament welcome to visit Australia and receive entry visas. 
If not, which Members are not welcome, and to which parties do they belong. 
How many Members of the South African Parliament have been invited to Australia by the present Australian Government. 
-The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  said that was a good speech. I think it was a good speech too, but I think that he is not a very good Minister. I think that the Minister really has no idea of what is going on in the Australian Capital Territory. He is impervious to any criticism that is published in the Territory. To that extent I think that he would probably, if I could be so unkind as to say this, be very close to a total failure as a Minister for the Capital Territory. The honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  talked about- I think I quote him correctly- 'little wooden boxes'. Those little wooden boxes are like many other houses in the Australian Capital Territory built as government houses for about $15,000 each. The Government, through the Minister for the Capital Territory, expects the tenants- the people who live in these places- to buy them for something like $25,000. For a socialist who does not believe in making a profit I think that the policy of the Minister is reprehensible. 
I have a whole file of letters from people, exservicemen and others, who live in the Australian Capital Territory and who are expected to pay premium prices for government houses on which the Government will make a fantastic profit. I am pleased to see that the Minister is making a few notes. I hope that he will reply to that criticism. The honourable member for Fraser mentioned the Red menace. It has a new lease of life. I am not exactly sure whether he sees the Red menace in Timor or somewhere else. That is where I see it. He talked about union bashing and zero growth in the Public Service. I am totally in favour of zero growth in the Public Service. I have yet to see- the  Clerk  at the table will excuse me- an unemployed public servant. But one can look around this community and find 300 000 people unemployed in the private sector. It is the private sector that provides the job opportunities in Australia. 
A few moments ago the honourable member for Fraser talked about the polls. I think he said that according to the polls public servants do not like the Liberal and National Country Parties and therefore we will be in trouble in the Australian Capital Territory. I find that inaccurate. My experience is that the Public Service now has some sort of warming towards us which I do not claim we had previously. To an extent they very nearly love us these days. 
The Minister for the Capital Territory who is at the table said: ' Good Lord ! '. I think the Public Service would like to get rid of the present Government and it would like us to be critical of the present Government. That is what we will do at every opportunity. I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory: Where is the honourable member from the other seat in the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Enderby?  Surely  Mr Enderby  ought to be here tonight. We are talking about the estimates for the Department of the Capital Territory. He temporarily holds a seat representing half of the Australian Capital Territory. Where is he tonight? 
He is representing your Government overseas. He should be here, right here in this chamber tonight debating these estimates. I suggest to the honourable gentleman who interjected that the honourable member will not last very long in this place and that it is very likely that the seat that he holds- whatever it is called, the Australian Capital Territory or Canberra- -Will become one of our seats after the next election. 
I am talking about the temporary member for Canberra. He is the Minister who made the classic remark, which indicates his total understanding of trade and other business affairs, that most of Australia's imports come from overseas. For that statement I give him full marks. 
I should like to make a couple of points on the estimates for the Capital Territory. The first is in connection with the appropriation by the Government for what is erroneously, I think, described as welfare housing. There has been a cut back in housing for the Territory. Of course anybody who has looked at the Budget Papers, including the Minister, will have had real trouble in finding out exactly where these cutbacks in figures occurred. One has to be almost a Philadelphia lawyer to work it out. I think the Minister is nodding. If he looks at the papers carefully he will find a reduction of $3.2m in the appropriation for the Territories, which include the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory, in the area of public housing which the honourable member for Fraser discussed. 
I should not like anybody in this Government to say to anybody in the Australian Capital Territory that this Government is spending more on welfare or government housing. Does the Minister agree with this? In fact there is a cutback in government housing oppropriations of more than $3m for both the Territories. On the basis of last year's completions of dwellings and this year's allocations and allowing for a 20 per cent inflation factor- I think it is slightly higher in the Australian Capital Territory- the loss in homes as I work it out for the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will be 600 dwellings. I find it difficult to understand how the Government can substantiate a cutback in housing and industrial assistance. I think that is the line in the Budget appropriations. The only areas that the Government has cut back in the whole Budget are industrial assistance, assistance to private enterprise in the secondary industry sector, and housing. Yet in every other respect the Budget expediture has been increased. Overall Budget expenditure has been increased by a significant 22V4 per cent. The cutback in housing is 10 per cent. The way I work it out is that in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory there will be a loss of 600 dwellings this year in the so-called welfare section. 
I also draw attention briefly to what I believe is quite ludicrous reporting by some sections of the media. In this area the Minister and I could even join together and express the same view. I refer in particular to a report in the  Australian Financial Review  on 4 September last. It is an article by a  Mr Stuart  Simson about the housing industry. I realise the danger in ever referring to anything that anybody in the Press has to say but I regard this newspaper as something of a thought leader in the community. The article states that housing approvals very marginally improved over the last month from the previous one. In fact the housing approval rate is at the most depressed level for the last 3 years. But the Government and, of course, the Minister for the Capital Territory, if he ever thinks about housing, would put the view that the housing problem is improving marginally around Australia. I put the view that the housing approvals, commencements and completions are marginally improved on a very low base. Yet this newspaper and this journalist say such things as: 
Housing industry recovery is now sustained. 
I ask the Minister for the Capital Territory: Does he think that the housing industry recovery is now sustained? Does he think there is any improvement in the completion rate, the approval rate or the commencement rate of houses in the Australian Capital Territory? Does he regard it as an improvement for the Government to buy a block of private enterprise flats in the Australian Capital Territory? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Government has done nothing since it has been in office to assist those whom it has always claimed to represent. The policies of the Government have actually worked against those in the community without the industrial muscle to defend themselves. Low income earners, people on fixed incomes and the under-privileged are all worse off now after 3 years of Labor administration than they have ever been since the days of the great depression. All that the Whitlam Government has achieved in its efforts to restructure our society has been to make the poor poorer and more numerous and the rich richer. 
The building and construction industry has taken an enormous battering as a result of Labor's policies, and unemployment together with company liquidations in the industry is now at an all time high. Average employment in the building industry and the manufacturing industries which support it is over one million Australians. Approximately one in five of the employed work force is related in this way to the building industry, and it follows that when there are 250 000 unemployed 50 000 are out of work because of depressed conditions in the building industry. We believe that these Australians are the backbone of our society. These are men and women who want to work. The statistics make no distinction between those who want to work and those who do not. This Government apparently believes that those who do not work should be paid as much as those who do work. It seems to me that Labor would turn us into a nation of paid malingerers. 
The Government has consistently attacked the private sector in an attempt to achieve its aims to control every aspect of our lives, overlooking the fact that the private sector provides employment for 75 per cent of the employed work force. If Labor's policies of high taxation and government extravagance are allowed to continue, private investment in this country will fall away even more, rapidly followed, I am sure, by worse inflation and increased unemployment. Unfortunately official statistical information on the building industry is available often only long after the event, but those statistics that are available show that the home building industry is still very sick. Commencements should be running at 14 500 a month simply to maintain Australia's annual requirements of homes. By the end of the year there will be an accumulated shortfall of houses or building units of one form or another in Australia of at least eighty thousand. 
Surveys conducted by the industry show that there will soon be even more drastic declines in the building industry, especially in the industrial and commercial sectors. There is virtually no large construction work in the pipeline at all, and the cutback in the public building sector will have an early effect upon usually large contractors. Surveys conducted by private architects indicate that further retrenchments in the profession are imminent. Two out of three persons currently employed in private architectural firms can expect to be out of work by Christmas. A recent survey of medium sized home builders shows that inquiries for housing received by one company in the Sydney area have dropped to three a month. Last year the same company was averaging over 100 inquiries a week. 
Unfortunately the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  is distracted by the problems of the Labor and Immigration portfolio which he handles in this House. One of his early statements as Minister criticised the building industry for the present disastrous situation. I quote him. I think I quote him fairly. He said: 'The building industry is on strike'. Surely this demonstrates how ill informed he is about the problems of builders. It seems to the Opposition that there are other Ministers who have little to do and very little to say in this place, and it was a serious blunder to saddle a new member of the Ministry with two highly sensitive and important portfolios and expect him to handle them. 
The Minister has also broken his promise to the State governments that this year they would receive for welfare housing not less than they received last year. The  President  of the New South Wales Co-operative Building Society in his annual report said: 
Regrettably the people who have been most affected by Government policies nave been the low income earners whom this movement was designed to serve. 
The Opposition believes that it is the aged, the disabled, the new settlers, those on fixed incomes and young couples with families who have been betrayed by this Government. Few of them can look forward to decent housing while Labor remains in office. 
My colleague the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  has told me of the grim plight of many families in the Launceston area. Waiting lists for government accommodation in Launceston are increasing at a monthly rate of 50 per cent. Building approvals are down by 35 per cent and at least one builder is going out of business each week. The social welfare agencies in Launceston, such as the Salvation Army and the City Mission, report that each week more and more destitute families are seeking relief. I think we should acknowledge that the Minister is to visit Launceston next month. We hope that he can convince his Cabinet colleagues of the gravity of the situation there. 
The cost of building even a modest home is rising more than $5,000 a year. That is in every State of the Commonwealth. It is rising at least $5,000 a year. What family, except the very wealthy, can save $100 a week just to keep pace with the deposit gap. To make things worse for first home buyers, Labor has terminated the home savings grant scheme which the former Government introduced some years ago and which helped 400 000 Australians bridge the deposit gap and buy their first homes. It is no good the Government talking about tax deductibility of mortgage interest, which I have no doubt the Minister will do, and claiming that this makes up for taking away the home savings grant. You have to have a home before you can get any benefit from the tax deductibility. We want to see that those Australians who desire to own their own homes are encouraged to do so. When the Liberal and Country Parties were in government home ownership in Australia was easily achievable, and it is a fact that over 73 per cent of Australian families were living in thenown homes, or homes they were buying, when we were in government. This figure has now dropped after 3 years of Labor administration to 68 per cent, which is a drastic fall in numbers from such a high plateau. Those who are worst affected are low to middle income earners who are first home buyers. 
According to the Government's own survey conducted in September last year, 79 per cent of male householders buying their first home have an income of less than $8,000. According to that survey, the profile of the average Australian first home buyer is that he is likely to be in the 25-29 age group, he is likely to be earning less than $8,000 a year and he is likely to have one child. We say that this average Australian now has no hope of building a home, bridging the deposit gap or servicing the debt. The cut-back in what are called welfare housing grants to the States will further enlarge the ever-growing number of homeless Australian families. 
Government policies have also wrecked private investment in rental accommodation. Last month commencements of residential buildings other than housing were 60 per cent less than for August last year. People are just not building apartments for rent any more- and who can blame them? Labor treats all developers as speculators and all who seek a profit- that dirty word- as fair game for the tax man. Admittedly, the surcharge tax on unearned income has been abandoned. 
It should never have been put on. It shows the way the Government thinks. Let us face it, if the Government remains in office it is likely that the tax will be re-introduced. That tax, the threat of a capital gains tax and the threat of rent controls give no encouragement to people to invest in rental accommodation. With inflation on projects such as these running in excess of 20 per cent, developers are forced into bridging finance or second mortgages at very high rates of interest. They would be better off investing their money at 9 per cent or 10 per cent without any risk or inconvenience. Obviously this is what is happening to private investment which might otherwise, and which used to, go into private rental accommodation. Australia under the Whitlam Government is rushing headlong into economic disaster and an accommodation shortage of the magnitude that we saw after World War II. The Government has cut back its spending in only 2 areas, housing and industries assistance, the very areas where reductions in expenditure will hurt Australian families most. 
The State housing authorities are now unable to cope with the flood of applications for accommodation. When Labor was elected there were 93 000 people on housing commission waiting lists around Australia. Today there are 120 000, and the number is increasing daily. These people and those who cannot even get on the lists are the people who are now paying for the Whitlam dream of a restructured society. We believe that Australia is facing its worst accommodation crisis for 30 years and the social consequences will be remembered long after this Government is gone and forgotten. There has not been a single Government policy to show that the Government understands the position or even cares about it. In the Australian Capital Territory 2 years ago the Government applied rent control as a policy initiative, and today there are only 5000 private units available for rental purposes in the Australian Capital Territory. That is exactly the same number as were available in the Australian Capital Territory 4 years ago. Last year the Government distributed $ 1 50m through the banks as a boost, as it thought, to the home building industry. Statistics show that most of that money has been used to purchase existing houses or for re-mortgaging, and very little has found its way into the home building industry. 
The Government is proposing to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the cost of housing, a committee to investigate interest rates and a department to inspect houses for potential buyers. It has produced a Green paper, a White paper and a whole host of things which I must say were not the ideas of the present Minister for Housing but of the previous Minister for Housing. None of them has come to fruition or produced anything. We believe that the Government has succeeded in damaging the building industry, perhaps beyond repair, and in destroying the opportunity for most young Australians to enjoy the security of owning their own homes. 
In the moments that are left I would like to refer briefly to the report by the Priorities Review Staff on housing, which was tabled in the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the last day of sitting. The Parliament has not had any opportunity to debate the report and I do not think the community has had an opportunity to understand it. Some of the ideas that are being put forward and being considered by the Government are really a direct and savage attack upon home ownership. The Priorities Review Staff- the Whitlam think-tank- recommends, for example, the abolition of land tax, water rates and so on as tax deductions. It recommends the imposition of a building tax on dwellings larger than 150 square metres, or 12te squares, and any house which is larger than that and which has extensions will, if the scheme is adopted, attract that building tax. It recommends the introduction of a new tax based on the rental value of a person's home. This amount is to be added to the home owner's income although he never sees the money. 
No, I am not joking. This is on public record, in the PRS Report on Housing tabled in this place. This means that if these recommendations are adopted a person with a home worth $25,000- who could buy a house for $25,000 these days- will have an amount of $ 1,875 added to his income for tax purposes. 
He never sees the money. He does not get it. It is imputed and it is added to his income. Because he has been thrifty, he has saved and he has bought a home he is to be penalised because he is not paying any rent. These are bushranger tactics. I raise the matter because the Minister was reported today as having denied it. A newspaper report said: 'Tax on houses reports scotched'. He says that this will not happen. I say that his own thinking, as revealed in an interview on  Federal  Fife some weeks ago, indicates that he thinks that people should be satisfied to live in a small house and that anyone living in a house larger than  2Vi  squares is affluent and should be slugged. In fairness to him, the Minister is probably trying hard, but I put the view that in Cabinet he is constantly being rolled. He told the States that they would receive the same money for welfare housing as before. I have already mentioned that. In fact he is on public record in 2 speeches as having guaranteed the States that their allocations for welfare housing would not be cut back. We have seen what has happened. They have been cut back. I make the point that although these proposals of the Priorities Review Staff are only recommendations they are being considered by the Government and they could well be implemented. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr JenkinsOrder! The honourable member's time has expired. 

asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What was the value of imports of mohair and mohair products in the following categories: tops, scoured, noils, yarns, worsted, finished product and finished fabric, during the years 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
-In the few minutes available I should like to say something about the Priorities Review Staff report on housing which was discussed in this Parliament last week and which has been mentioned a couple of times by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  on television and in Press releases. Last week the Minister chose to discredit the Opposition for referring to this report and in fact to discredit the report itself. He implied that the Priorities Review Staff report on housing and some of the matters I specifically introduced were in fact argued against by the members of that committee. 
I make the point that in the first place the PRS has already prepared half a dozen reports for this Government, and many of the suggestions and recommendations it has made are now enshrined in legislation. There are 23 people on the Staff, and I cannot believe that any responsible Minister would say that the Government will not listen to them, whether on this issue or any other issue. The Staff is described as the Whitlam think tank. The Children's Commission, the rebate system of taxation to apply from 1 January and the abolition of the superphosphate bounty are some of the things that have been suggested by the PRS. We on the Opposition side of the Parliament believe it is a report which should be heeded by us and the Australian public at large. 
There are several contentious issues to which I would particularly refer. The first is the recommendation that the dwelling that one lives in should have its rental value assessed and that that rental value should be added to one's income and therefore to one's tax. Last week the Minister described me as being a humbug. He said that what I alleged was utterly false and was a misconstruction. I say that this is a recommendation which is being considered by the Government, and it is quite possible, and in fact likely, that it will be adopted as legislation. Contrary to what the Minister says, there are half a dozen places in the report where the Priorities Reveiw Staff actually recommends this to the Government. It does not in fact talk against it. On page 14 mention is made of taxing the owneroccupier. Also on page 14 there is reference to the personal income tax deduction for rates and taxes. It is recommended that this deduction should be abolished. The Minister has not bothered to mention that. Also on page 14 there are references to the current concessions under estate duty legislation for a principal matrimonial home passing to a surviving spouse. The clear implication is that those concessions should be scrubbed off. Page 14 also refers to the current exemption for owner-occupied dwellings from the means test for many pensions. The implication is that that exemption should be abolished. The Minister has not referred to that. Page 14 contains a strong implication that the Priorities Review Staff believes that this imputed rental tax scheme should become legislation. On page 21 there is reference to the Henderson report. The Priorities Review Staff states: 
The Henderson system would work still more fairly and progressively if imputed rents were taxed. 
Are these arguments against such a tax? The Minister, when he was discussing this matter the other day, just resorted to bullying tactics, blunder and bluff. I say we have to consider acceptance of these recommendations by the Government as a strong possibility. On page 125 the PRS report states: 
Failure to tax imputed rent affects distribution between rich and poor, the rates at which other things must be taxed, the demand for housing and, possibly, the price of housing relative to that of other goods. 
That is not condemnation by the Priorities Review Staff of this scheme. On page 126 it states: 
The addition of imputed rent to taxable income need not apply through the whole range of either incomes or house values. 
I think the honourable member is extremely stupid. Anyone who has read this report perhaps would believe that the Minister is in the same category. The Minister said that he did not read past page 14. 1 do not think he has read any. I think recently a member of his staff read the report. Page 126 states: 
If the existing exemption of imputed rent cannot be abolished, there could be advantage in replacing it by a tax rebate. 
Surely to heavens honourable members will not say that that is not unqualified support for such a scheme. Page 127 of the report states: 
The proportion of imputed rem allowed as a tax credit (one-third in the example given) could be set, if desired, at a level which would yield no net revenue; 
All the way through this report there is ample evidence that the PRS wishes the Government to adopt its recommendation. I think that the Minister was mischievous in calling me mischievous and implying that I am untruthful when in fact he is the one who has been making- I cannot say he has been untruthful- false statements. I suppose a further comment on page 127 more than anything else gives the line to whether or not the Review Staff is recommending this idea to be put into legislation. I will quote once again from the report. Page 127 states-. 
Taxes on imputed rents create administrative burdens and difficulties of valuation - 
And this is the important line- . . . such taxation has nevertheless been applied in the past in Australia and until very recently in the United Kingdom and is applied currently in Germany and Sweden. 
I believe that the PRS has made strong recommendations and brought forward a whole range of options. No matter what the Minister saysapparently he is coming out on the side of whacking this committee- this organisation was set up by the Government to provide recommendations. The Prime Minister describes it as his think tank. The examples I have given show what the think tank has recommended. 
It is absolutely ridiculous for the Government to say that it is not considering the recommend.tions. By the very way this report was introduced into the Parliament by the Prime Minister- it was introduced in the dying hours of the Thursday of the last 4-week period- no opportunity was given for anybody to debate it. It was substantially missed by the media. It is only by our drawing attention to it and to the dangers in it that proper and informed public debate can take place. We believe that the Government has tried to bury this report and that it is too hot for the Government to handle. The Minister has panicked. He started off on one track and has now gone onto another. There is no doubt in our minds that the recommendations could possibly be the basis of future legislation. Our job is to inform people who pay taxes. At the moment members of the Opposition are putting this information out to their electorates and in some cases petitions on this matter are being presented to this Parliament. I know from my own experience that enormous concern is being felt in the electorate. It is not mischievous to stir up interest in these matters. This is an attack on home ownership. It is our job to inform the electorate. 
Three main points concern us. The first is the recommendation concerning imputed rental value. According to the formula in the recommendation the owner-occupier of a home worth, for example, $25,000 will have an amount of $36 a week added to his income and he will be taxed on that. Does the Minister deny that that is in the report? He is not nodding or shaking his head. But there it is. There is no doubt about it. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Keith Johnson)-  Order! I do not think the Minister should shake his head. The honourable member should be addressing the Chair and not the Minister. 
-That is fair enough, but it is interesting to know the Minister's reaction. He does not deny that that recommendation is contained in the report, the Government does not deny it and I trust that you,  Mr Chairman,  do not deny it either. It is legitimate for me to ask the Minister whether he will shake his head or what he will do. He is unhappy with the recommendation. He is junior in the Cabinet. It is all very well for him to say that the Government is not considering the recommendation. I would like the Prime Minister to say whether or not the Government is considering it. I would like to hear what the Caucus members have to say. The second point relates to the building tax. The PRS makes the recommendation that anybody living in or building a house of more than 12 1/2 squares may be subject to an additional building tax. Anybody who is living in a house which is that size now and adds an extra room will attract the same tax. The Minister does not deny that. I remember an interview of his recorded some weeks ago on a Sunday night in which he drew attention to the fact - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I personally regret that we did not have a condolence motion today in respect of the death of the honourable Cyril Chambers. Instead we recorded his passing. I would like to place on record just a few words about  Mr Chambers,  a person for whom I had the very highest regard. I regret that under the new order that we now support, condolence motions apparently are not accorded a deceased member who was not a current member of the Parliament. 

 Mr Chambers was elected to this House for the seat of Adelaide in 1943. He was elected to serve continuously in the House of Representatives at elections held in 1943, 1946, 1949, 1951, 1954 and 1955. He was a member of the Standing Committee on Broadcasting from 14 October 1943 to 16 August 1946. He was Minister for the Army from 1 November 1946 to 19 December 1949.I stress the point that he was Minister for the Army in a Labor government. I find it incongruous that the present Government does not at least have some form of recognition of the service which  Mr Chambers  has given to this House. 
He visited Japan on a tour of inspection of the Australian component of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in December 1946. He was Acting Minister of Transport and Acting Minister for External Territories from June to October 1947 and December 1948 to June 1949. As Acting Minister for External Territories he visited New Guinea in 1949 and Nauru in April of that year. He was a member of the Australian delegation to the Tenth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations in New York in 1955. In the absence of a condolence motion I wish to be identified in some way with a resolution to place on record in this place our appreciation for the tremendous contribution made by the late Cyril Chambers to Australia and to Australian politics. I know that there are people in the chamber tonight who served with Cyril Chambers both in opposition and in government in the Labor Party. He lived in the electorate of Boothby for most of his life. He was a contemporary of my father's, not only in this place but also in local government in South Australia. He was active in council administration from 1924 to 1939 and was Mayor of the City of Henley Beach for the three difficult years from 1932 to 1935 when the depression really hit in Australia. 
He was especially interested in the work of the Legacy Club, although he was not at that time an ex-serviceman. He was interested in the work of the Good Neighbour Council. In fact he was present at the first naturalisation ceremony held in South Australia and presided over by  Sir Mellis  Napier, the acting Governor at that time. 
He served in the 2/3 Field Ambulance in New Guinea as a dental surgeon in World War II. I met him for the first time about 9 years ago not long after I was elected to the House of Representatives. Although we were members of different political parties- Cyril Chambers was a member of the Labor Party, and I was and still am and always will be a member of the Liberal Party- I always found him to be very friendly and generous in his advice. He was a man of very great principles and a true friend. I extend my sincere sympathy to his widow and his family. It seems appropriate that I should quote my father when speaking of Cyril Chambers on one occasion. He said: 'Not all good fellows are on our side of the House'. That is the feeling I have about Cyril Chambers, and I should like to see that placed on parliamentary record. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the cost of the tax deductibility of mortgage interest for the year 1974-75. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
1 ) How many dwellings were built during 1974-75 when advances under the Defence Service Homes Scheme totalled $130m. 
How many dwellings are estimated will be built during 1975-76 with the advance of $122.5m. 
What rate of inflation is assumed in providing an answer. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
What is the delay for applicants seeking first mortgage finance through the Defence Service Homes Scheme for home building or home purchase. 
What is the upper limit of these mortgages. 
How many applications were approved for less than the maximum loan during 1974-75 and for the months of July and August 1 975, and what were the reasons. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many dwellings were built during 1974-75, and what was ( a ) the expenditure and ( b ) the advance. 
How many dwellings are estimated will be built during 1975-76 with the advance of $20.9m. 
What rate of inflation is assumed in providing an answer. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
How many persons are now employed by the Australian Housing Corporation. 
How many officers have been transferred from Australian Government Departments to the Corporation, and what are the Departments involved. 
What are the qualifications of each person employed by the Corporation. 
Apart from the administration of the Defence Service Homes Scheme, what other work is being undertaken by the Corporation. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say on 20 July 197S that advances for the States Welfare Housing Program will not be less than in the previous financial year. 
If so, why were the advances to the States of Queensland, Western Australia and Tasmania reduced. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the Bill now before the House seeks to authorise the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  to make advances to the States for the purpose of welfare or government housing. I move the following amendment: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House is of the opinion that the reduction of $20.8m for welfare housing is a breach of the undertaking given by the Australian Government not to reduce the advances to the States below the 1974-75 level and that many low income families will be needlessly disadvantaged as a result'. 
One of the things which I find absolutely incredible in respect of this Budget is the cutback in expenditure in 2 areas- housing and assistance to industry. In the Budget there is an overall increase of 22Vi per cent. 
Assistance to industry. The point is that there is an overall increase of  22lA  per cent in the Budget, yet there has been a cutback in expenditure in these 2 areas, housing and assistance to industry. I believe housing is of fundamental importance to every Australian. Assistance to industry is assistance to private enterprise which is the only area which provides employment in this country. Expenditure in both these areas has been cut back. I think it is madness in any Budget - 
There is no concern for the people who want to work or for the people who want to provide for themselves and their families. There is no concern for the people who are on low incomes, who are underprivileged or disadvantaged and who will seek what is commonly known as welfare housing. So we deplore this aspect of the Budget. This is one of the reasons for our amendment. The amendment deals with the reduction amounting to $20.8m in welfare housing. The overall cutback in housing expenditure in the Budget is $69m or 10 per cent of last year's expenditure. It is a very significant cutback. But the cutback in the area of welfare housing, which is what we are talking about today, amounts to $20. 8m. 
The Minister interjects and says it is not true. He has been saying this for some considerable time. It seems to me that basic English in this Budget describes what is a cutbacka reduction. In reply to the Minister I refer him to question No. 2913 on the notice paper which asks whether he had said that advances for the States welfare housing programs will not be less than in the previous financial year. He said he did say that. The second part of that question asked why advances to 3 States had been cut back. I could read the answer into  Hansard  but there is no sense in wasting time. The answer really was a series of paragraphs of complete gobbledegook. The Minister did not deny that allegation at all. I would like to demonstrate how impossible it is to deny it. In Queensland there has been a reduction of $ 12.8m on last year's expenditure. 
Once again I appreciate the interjection. The Minister says that Queensland received an advance in June, and that is set out in the second reading speech. Perhaps I could deal with that at this stage. Let me refer to what the Minister for Housing in Queensland and the Treasurer in that State had to say about this socalled advance that Queensland got in June. Quite clearly there has been a cutback on last year's expenditure in Queensland amounting to $12.8m and an amount of $4m in Western Australia and Tasmania. The Minister in some obscure way says there have not been cutbacks. I say that is quite ridiculous. This is what the Treasurer of Queensland had to say: 
The reduction in the Queensland allocation compared with 1974-75 is iniquitous. 
That is a pretty strong word. He said that Western Australia and Tasmania- the other 2 States that have had their allocations cut back- will speak for themselves. The Treasurer went on to say: 
There is absolutely no reason why Queensland should be penalised for additional allocations during 1974-75 while New South Wales, Victoria and South Australia receive the same as last year. The Commonwealth may attempt to justify this by saying that Queensland received $6.4m in June 1975. 
The Minister says: 'That is right'. That is in fact the way he attempts to justify this reduction. It was only $6.4m. I am quoting the Minister responsible in Queensland. He said: 
This is totally irrelevant-Queensland sought the money in March 1975. The delay from then until June arose from the Commonwealth 's own processes. 
The Prime Minister had said that his Government 'would pay for every Housing Commission house for which the Queensland Government could let a contract'. To approve the resulting allocation and then to debit it against the next year's allocation to such an extreme degree is a play of words. 
I believe this is deception at its worst. 
It is not new for this Govern.ment but in fairness to this Minister I do not include him in the category of a deceptive Minister. He will probably pick up the disease if he stays in the Ministry for long but up to this time he has shown resistance. However, he did have something to say which tied him in with this whole sorry business. I think we must make some excuse for him because he has not been in the Ministry for very long and he has to make up for the sins of his predecessors and of the Prime Minister. At the housing Ministers' Conference in Brisbane in June this year- I do not know how new he was then but he had not been in office very long- the Minister said, as recorded at page 84 of the report: 
The funds that will now be available to Queensland and Western Australia are clearly advanced on the basis that they will be considered in the light of next year's commitment in the same way as funds that have been made available to the other States will have to be considered next year in the light of what has been achieved and what has been made available in the last year. 
It seems to me that the words 'in the same way' clearly link the June allocation to the earlier allocations to the other States, but the other States have been treated differently. 
-The Queensland Minister went on to say: 
Insofar as Queensland is concerned, the June allocation was required to meet Housing Commission cash commitments pursuant to the Prime Minister's promise and was fully expended by 30 June 1975- it did not provide finance for 1975-76. 
I am quoting the Queensland Minister. The point is that we are saying that in this Budget assistance for welfare housing has been decreased. The Minister in some way says that it has not been decreased. I refer him to page 55 of the Budget Speech under the heading of 'Housing'. In respect of advances to the States for housing there is a table there setting out advances for 1973-74, 1974-75 and 1975-76. The final column of that table indicates by a minus sign or a plus sign whether there has been a decrease or an increase. According to the Budget Speech there has been a decrease in advances to the States amounting to $20. 8m. That is set out in the Government's own Budget papers, particularly Budget Paper No. 7 headed 'Payments to or for the States and Local Government Authorities' and in respect of which we have just been debating legislation. That document clearly sets out on page 68 that in round figures New South Wales last year received $125m and this year it is to receive exactly the same amount. Victoria received $99m and this year it is to receive the same amount. Last year Queensland received $44m and this year it is to receive $32m. If honourable members look at Budget Paper No. 7 they will see there is no doubt that an allocation is reduced by the amount of an advance that is made to a State. 
We of the Opposition have worked out what this will mean to the end user, the low income earner, the disadvantaged, the underprivileged and so on in the States. Consider this cut back of $20.8m. Consider last year's commencements and allow for a 20 per cent inflation rate. I do not know whether the inflation rate will be 20 per cent by the time we come to the end of the year but the inflation rate is down a bit at the moment. I will bet dollars to doughnuts that it will go back up again. However, allowing for 20 per cent, we have worked out that there will be a loss not only in Housing Commission homes but also in homes for low income people built through the Home Builders Account. There will be a loss of 4500 homes compared with last year as a result of this cut back of $20.Bm 
In the second reading speech of the Minister for Housing and Construction there were some things that I would like to dispute. One, in particular, is relevant. The Minister has been going all over the country saying things, although perhaps not as often as his predecessor, about how much more money this Government has spent than we of the Opposition spent when in Government. 
It is true. In his second reading speech the Minister said that in 1974-75, the year just ended, advances were 2 'A times more than was spent on welfare housing in 1971-72 when we were in Government. I have done some calculations and it is true that when we were in Government we spent in those 2 years about $161m, or we advanced that much, for public housing. This Government has advanced $364m, which is  2'A  times the sum advanced in 1971. However, in 1971 when we were in Government we produced 15 337 homes with welfare money and this Government has produced only 15 228. 
-It achieved that result with 2 1/4 times as much money. The Minister should not talk about what may or may not happen. I would rather see satisfactory results. It is no comfort to any of us to see people without housing. 
I am pleased to hear the Minister acknowledge that point. No one should go around the country saying how much money they have spent unless they can say how much they have produced. In fact the Government has produced slightly less than we produced when we were in government. 
Costs have been going up for 2 years. 
To be fair, I will quote what he said: 
This program will bring the government housing program to a stop and when added to the sorrowful situation at present existing in the private sector it does mean that the building industry both in government and private sector level has passed the stage of being on its knees because it will now be flat on its face. 
He was saying that the building industry was very nearly settled. He went on to refer to a government supported factory-built homes proposition operating in Victoria which will have to be wound down. 
The New South Wales Minister has made similar remarks about the problems in that State. Normally the Housing Commission in New South Wales calls for tenders based on 120 units a week, which means an annual program of 6000 units. The Housing Commission has found it necessary to reduce that to 30 units a week, which means an annual program of 1500 units. I will not waste too much of the time of the House reading some of these other quotes because I am sure that the Minister is very well aware of them. But the New South Wales Minister chose to make a point which I think is of some significance to the people of New South Wales. He said: 
An additional and equally disturbing factor is satisfactory tenders for approximately 1034 dwelling units which were already on hand, but for which contracts had not actually been signed, will now not be proceeded with and the successful tenderers have had to be advised in writing to this effect. 
That is his concern. It is certainly of concern to us. He also went on to refer to the stock of rental accommodation. In fact all of the State Ministers with whom I have had any contact- which is all of them- indicate that the waiting lists for housing commission or housing trust accommodation are expanding very rapidly. The Federal Minister may remember saying just two or three months ago that there were 93 000 people on the waiting list. That is something that his predecessor used to say all the time. In fact, he started off saying it just after the 1972 elections. He has been saying it ever since. But the true position is that the waiting lists numbers 120 000 applicants. This number has in fact gone up 20 per cent since Labor has been in office. I think that we will find that such surveys as the Henderson report and plenty of others indicate that that really is just the tip of the iceberg, that there are a great many more people without suitable accommodation who are not on the waiting lists. 
In the moment or two left to me can I just say that these views are not confined simply to 
Liberal or National Country Party Premiers or Ministers for Housing and Construction or Treasurers. In my own State of South Australia the Premier of a Labor Government has been as vehement in criticising this cut-back as any of the Liberal Party or National Country Party Premiers or spokesmen. On 20 August, just a few days after the Budget was announced, a newspaper article reported  Mr Dunstan  as having said: 
The Federal Budget would mean an inevitable increase in unemployment in South Australia. . . . Homebuilding here - 
That is, in South Australia-  would be seriously hit, and the dropping of State unemployment relief schemes would mean a lot more people out of jobs by October. . . . 
Of course, that is what is happening. The report continued:  ... the only way to avoid this was increased activity in the private sector and he could not see that happening. 'Housing is a really big worry', he said. 'The Budget has hit us harder than other States because we spend very much more than other States on public housing. 
I do not know whether that is true or not, but every State leader is concerned to put his own State point of view. Each Premier and each Housing Minister believes that he has had a worse deal than anybody else. Welfare housing, to use that general term, has probably nowhere else in Australia been promoted as successfully as it has been in South Australia. This situation has been the same whether the State has been run by Liberal Party and National Country Party governments or Labor governments because the State Housing Trust has done a tremendous job. The article then quoted  Mr Dunstan  as saying:  'As people in S.A. rely very heavily on public housing, it is going to have a very serious effect. 
Among other things he is reported as saying:  'There will be a marked reduction in the number of houses built with State bank loans. 
This is perfectly obvious, as I mentioned earlier. The article also reports him as saying:  'It is very hard to see - 
I assure honourable members that I shall not take too long but as this is the first time that I have had anything to say in this chamber in the life of this Parliament, may I congratulate you,  Mr Speaker,  on your election to your office and may I say that I hope you remain there for many years- you in your capacity and we in ours. 
It is a fact that the nonresidential construction industry is in some trouble and the situation may become worse. It is also a fact that it was in trouble before we came into government- in very great trouble- as a direct result of the policies pursued by the former Government. At this moment we are consulting with the industry's leaders. What we do in the future will be a matter of our own policy, which is not appropriate to be discussed at question time. Can I say that the -  (Opposition members interjecting) 
I am grateful for the opportunity of being able to say something tonight. In the first place I congratulate the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  on his maiden speech. 
I thought it was a splendid maiden speech too. I believe we can look forward to a very long, successful and illustrious career for the honourable member for Barker. I trust it will be equally as illustrious as that of his predecessor. 
To make it even better than that of his predecessor would take some little doing. I must say that it is refreshing to have some members of the Opposition in the chamber tonight. I listened with dismay to the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I can understand why there was not a single member of the Opposition in the chamber to listen to him.  His  speech contrasted with that of the honourable member for Barker in every respect. It was dull and backward looking. It is easy to understand why he is a chamber emptier. Lots of things about this place and some of the people in it irritate me, but I was particularly irritated tonight when the honourable member said that the Government, does not have any policies. He has probably gone home by now. When the Government parties were in Opposition our Housing and Construction Committee and I spent 18 months preparing our- housing policy. We believe it is a first rate housing policy and that when it is translated into legislation it will be something of an achievement for our side of politics. 
It was stupid of the honourable member for Shortland to take credit for the abandonment of the homes savings grant. I believe the homes savings grant legislation is one piece of Government legislation which is eagerly anticipated, by every first home buyer in this country. 
-That is quite true. It will take 3 years to get any subsidy. If it were not for the disgraceful way the previous administration handled our economy that would not be necessary. In fact the $2,000 grant proposed is equivalent in value to the $750 that applied when we were last in government. That is what has happened with inflation. The previous Government killed the home savings grant effectively by not raising the statutory limit. I would like to make sure that it is sheeted home to those who missed out on it in the last 18 months or so that the curious, grinning people in the Opposition were responsible for killing it, not the present Government. 
The honourable member for Shortland talked about the tax deductability scheme for mortgage interest and predicted its demise. I do not know how he is able to make that prediction. The matter has not been discussed by the Government as yet. I suppose what really irritates me most- I guess we on the Government side are becoming slightly sick of it- is the Opposition's constant talk about representative democracy being killed and its constant denigration of the Governor-. General. I place on record how much I dissociate myself from the behaviour of Opposition members. Let us face it: What can be more democratic than having an election for both Houses of Parliament? The Opposition's argument is nonsense. The way that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G: Whitlam)  and every member of the Federal Australian Labor Party, and the Premier of South Australia and his Party are behaving towards the Governor-General is a disgrace to Australian politics. It is also interesting to note the way that demonstrators behaved in Adelaide a week or so ago when the Governor-General visited the Torrens Advanced Education Centre. The same sort of people we saw the next day marching through the streets of Adelaide supporting Frelimo. I would hazard a guess that the people the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten)  has just been attacking are the same sort of people who organised both those demonstrations. 
The honourable member for Adelaide is one of those people who have come to this place on the endorsement of the South Australian Trades and Labour Council. They call each other comrades. This is the new rule. Their endorsement is decided on the card vote system. The biggest unions get the most votes. I wonder which are the biggest unions in South Australia and I wonder who controls them. They are very much to the Left. What the honourable member for Indi was saying is true. They are the people who run the Labor Party. They are the people who endorse all Labor candidates. There is no reference to the people in the electorate whatsoever. I think the honourable member for 
Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who sold his soul some time ago, ought to keep quiet. 
I wish to mention some of the Press reports I have been receiving of what has been said in Darwin in the last week and perhaps as recently as yesterday and today. I listened to the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  this evening. 
He is the honourable, gallant and distinguished member for the Northern Territory. I thought it would be perhaps wise at least to comment on some of the statements that have been issued in the media in Darwin in the last few days. 
The disappointing part,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  is that I cannot hear the interjection. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The design data contained in the Australian Standard CA52-1968 'Design for Access by Handicapped Persons: Part 1- Public Buildings and Facilities' is being taken into consideration by the Department of Construction for all new design work, and wherever applicable it is incorporated in the design of relevant Government projects. 
The new draft metric standard to replace CA52, when approved, will be implemented by the Department of Construction in respect of applicable Government projects for which it is the responsible design authority. 
Visit to Europe by the Governor-General (Question No. 31) 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Phosphate Fertilizers Bounty Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
After listening to the 

 Deputy Leader of the Opposition my impression was: What a hide the Australian Labor Party has. How could it come in here and cry like that about the building and construction industry in view of the damage that 3 years of hard Labor did to that industry? I do not think any other industry has been damaged more as a result of Labor Party policies than the building and construction industry. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition came in here now and cried about it. Let us hope that industry leaders throughout the country were listening to him. I will leave the question of housing primarily to my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition told a couple of falsehoods. He said that housing had a sharp recovery in the last days of the Whitlam Government. I think they were the words he used. He implied that housing had taken an awful thrashing during the preceding  Vh  years of the Whitlam Government. I will deal with the last weeks of the Whitlam Government. So far as the number of building approvals can be used to indicate potential forward work, the figures show that the number of approvals had fallen from the low level of 12 400 in November to 1 1 300 in December, so they had actually fallen in the last days of the Whitlam Government. They have improved slightly since we have been in office, from 1 1 000 in January to 12 100 in February. I believe that the home building industry, which has certainly taken a battering under Labor, is slowly recovering, with the exception certainly of New South Wales. 
I do not think the position in Queensland is quite as bad as the position in New South Wales. New South Wales will take some little time to recover. Let us remember how bad it was when Labor was in government. The shortfall in houses, as I recollect, estimated to November-December last year was about 80 000 over the 3 years of Labor administration. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition talked about housing policies. Labor terminated the home savings grant. We have reintroduced it, in a better form I believe. 
Under Labor, especially during the time that the honourable member for Hughes, who is trying to interject, was Minister for Housing and Construction, inflation in home building reached 20 per cent a year. More than $100 a week was coming out of a person's wage just to keep up with building inflation. So I do not think that the honourable member should interject too loudly. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition talked about generating activity in the home building industry. I can remember the former Government doing just that about 2 years ago. It injected $150m into the savings banks for use in the home building and housing industries. More than 70 per cent of that was used to buy existing homes or for re-mortgaging, which did not do very much good for the construction industry. 
I just happen to have with me a Press release that I put out in July 1 974 as the shadow Minister in this area. At that time I was making a point about the promise by the then Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, in his 1972 election campaign that the Australian Labor Party would reduce the cost of housing by between $2,000 and $6,000. 1 think it is reasonable to say that it more than doubled the cost of housing in some areas-by $ 1 5 ,000 to $20,000-and that throughout Australia the average certainly would be in excess of $10,000. At the same time he promised to reduce interest rates. That is the greatest laugh of all. When the Australian Labor Party came into office interest rates were around 6 per cent. When it went out of office they were over 9 per cent. So the Labor Government did not do anything about reducing interest rates. The honourable member for Hughes, who interjected a few moments ago, was so concerned about the soaring house prices that he undertook to refer the whole matter to the Joint Committee on Prices for its investigation. So far as I am aware nothing ever came of that, like many of his other initiatives. 
In August 1974 the then Prime Minister, speaking to a building workers conference, used some S-month old statistics to say that the housing industry was over stretched and that it would serve no worthwhile purpose to increase the supply of housing. On 13 September 1974- in the heyday of the former Administration- the then Minister for Housing and Construction, who interjected a moment or two ago, said that so far as welfare housing was concerned he would provide a bottomless pit of funds. He may remember those words. In fact, in the Hayden Budget of last August welfare housing funds were cut back by $20.8m which, having regard to the rate of inflation, certainly was a very much larger figure then than it is now. It is no good blaming the present Government for what is happening to the housing and construction industry. When we went out of office in 1972 the inflation rate was 4 per cent. It actually exceeded 20 per cent during parts of 1975. In 1974 the wages demand peaked. Some awards were increased by as much as 65 per cent. I believe, certainly insofar as South Australia is concerned, that the across-the-board increase in the awards of building workers was almost 50 per cent. At the same time the former Government expanded the public works expenditure. It peaked during 1974, which is when we had a 20 per cent inflation rate. The Hayden Budget of 1 975 started the present cutback. 'Cutback' is a word that no one uses much these days. I am of the view that the Labor Party created an expectation in relation to public works which simply cannot be maintained. 
I think we should remember that during the term of the Labor Administration wages were 54 per cent of the gross domestic product and profits were 13 per cent, and that when the Labor Administration went out of office in 1975 wages were 61 per cent of the gross domestic product and profits had dropped to 9 per cent. It is my view that the biggest sin that was committed under the Labor Administration was the fostering of the idea that everyone is entitled to enjoy the benefits of this society irrespective of whether he works. Let me remind the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that the deficit in the Hayden Budget was estimated at $2, 800m and that at this moment it is $4, 700m, despite the fact that we have saved $360m by various cuts and economies. 
-If the Labor Party were in office now and was supported by the honourable member for Prospect, who has just interjected, that deficit would have doubled. I shudder to think what the deficit would have been if the 2 1 Bills that were knocked out of the Senate had ever become law. We would have had a deficit of mammoth proportions. I ask the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition: Where does he think that we should reflate? Where does he think that public funds should be spent to overcome this problem? 
-Does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition suggest that we should be spending money on constructing office accommodation? That is one of his pet schemes. He nods his head in agreement. He is asserting that we should be spending public funds on office accommodation. There is a surplus of office accommodation throughout Australia at the moment. There is absolutely no point in building up the deficit by spending public funds on the construction of office accommodation when there is more office accommodation available than one can poke a stick at. What else does he suggest? Does he suggest that we should spend public funds on the construction of factories and warehouses? Surely it is a matter for the private sector to make a judgment on where it will build factories and warehouses. I believe that there are vacant factories and warehouses in every capital city throughout Australia simply because businesses have gone into liquidation as a result of the policies pursued by the former Government. 
Does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition think that private enterprise might invest money in shops and shopping centres? The position with respect to shops and shopping centres is the same as it is with respect to factories and warehouses. In fact, most good shopping sites and shopping centre sites have been well picked over and it will be some time before private investors will want to invest in that area. Does the Leader of the Opposition think that the private sector should now start investing in flats? There is a shortage of rental accommodation in this country but, because of the way in which the unions operate at the moment, an investor never knows whether he is going to get his flat development finished. Because a developer could have a strike on his hands, because of the high interest rates, because of the rent controls in some areas and because of the lack of confidence by developers it is perfectly obvious that it will be some time before the private sector will start to spend money in this area. The private sector accounts for one-third of the expenditure in the non-residential area in this country- $ 1,000m a year. The public sector accounts for $2,000m of it. So it is obvious that any policies which squeeze the public sector spending will affect the private sector which constructs the buildings. 
What does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition think that this Government should do now? Does he think that it should be spending more money on the construction of roads, reservoirsjust to put a reservoir somewhere to keep an industry going- schools and hospitals when it has a deficit of $4, 700m? The truth of the matter is that with our current rate of growth we cannot afford to expand the public sector spending. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who has just interjected, quoted what some architects had said just a few weeks ago. I would like to quote what architects were saying when his party was in government. I refer to an article in the Adelaide  Advertiser  on 8 September 1975, which reads: 
Some South Australian architectural firms have been forced to lay off staff in the past few months because there is not enough work on the drawing boards. 
The previous Government did not understand. Long lead times have to be taken into account in planning these projects. Unfortunately time is running out on me and prevents my referring in detail to a list I have collected of private investment projects in Victoria which have been deferred because of a lack of confidence, profit and viability. The half a dozen projects on this list on their own account for $ 168m. It is no good blaming the present Government for the sins of the past 3 years. 
Let us examine now which other industries are in trouble. Does the Leader of the Opposition not believe that the beef industry, the dairy industry, the fruit industry, the mining industry or the ship building industry are in trouble? The situation is that all industries, with one or two notable exceptions, are in terrible trouble and that their troubles are a direct result of the economic mismanagement of the former Government. Our strategy is to combat inflation- that is our first line of attack- in the interests of the total economy so that all industries will have a chance of recovering, not just a particular industry. We cannot do that on our own. We need the support of the States because they are responsible for a great deal of the spending of the public dollar; we need the support of local governments; and we need the support of trade union leaders. They will have a part to play. Some trade union leaders, in my view, have contributed very heavily to the present situation. In many cases they have priced their members out of work. One can see proof of that across the whole spectrum of industry; but it is particularly bad in the building and construction industry, which has suffered from bans, demarcation disputes and frivolous disputes such as that which occurred in relation to the Flinders Medical Centre building just two or three weeks ago when the men went on strike because the contractor would not pay them for when they were on strike. Can honourable members think of anything more ridiculous than that? 
I believe that the policies of the former socialist Government, combined with those of the socialist Government in South Australia, are killing the economy of that State. South Australia used to be a low cost State. Industry was attracted there because it was favourable to the production of goods. Since the Labor Government came to power in that State the cost of production there has increased enormously. Almost all- I understand 80 per cent- of the money spent on public works in South Australia is spent on day labour in the public buildings area, the engineering and water supply area, the marine and harbours area and the roads area. There is no public scrutiny of that work. There are confused zoning regulations which add to costs, as do the workers compensation provisions. In South Australia one becomes entitled to long service leave after 7 years service. That is an absolute entitlement. In every other State the period is 10 years. Land tax has increased in some areas by 900 per cent. Stamp duty on property transfers is higher in South Australia than anywhere else. I take the view that the Premier of South Australia and his Government are doing to South Australia what the Whitlam Government did to Australia. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 
In the first place the Government rejects this proposition out of hand. In the second place the Government rejects the assertion by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  that honourable members on this side of the House initiated the use of the expression 'dole bludgers'. If he can find for me any evidence to show that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  or anybody else on the Government side of the chamber initiated the use of that expression I will offer him some hospitality in some other place. We acknowledge that there has been a downturn in the building and construction industry and that there is unemployment in the industry. There is unemployment in almost every industry in this country. We acknowledge also that it is worse in New South Wales than in any of the other States. 
But let us make quite sure that we know, once and for all, who is responsible for this position. There is no way in the world that anyone in his right mind can possibly pin the blame for that onto us. After all, the 3 years that the Australian Labor Party was in office were probably three of the greatest wrecking years since Federation. The downturn in the building and construction industry relates directly back to the end of 1973, 1974 and last year. There were boom conditions. Associated with those boom conditions there was a series, and still is a series, of quite irresponsible industrial disputes. One must give some consideration to those disputes, which force up prices and force people out of work. The power struggles between the Gallaghers, the Mundeys and the Clancys of this world are where a lot of the unemployment has been created. The leaders of some of the unions actually have been pricing their own members out of work. Let us not skate over the real facts of this issue. 
I have in front of me some figures concerning this matter. In fact, one of the surveys that the honourable gentleman mentioned confirmed that over $600m of private investment in this field is being deferred right now. Private investment is what we want to get going in order to get this country back onto its feet. Why is that private investment not going ahead? The reason is perfectly obvious. People who have money to invest are not going to invest it in an industry in which there is no idea of how long it is going to take to build a particular building or what it is going to cost at the end to do so, if in fact there is any end to it. It is really quite ridiculous for the Australian Labor Party to try to blame the present Government for the current situation when it has been in office for only 4 or 5 months. 
Let me take the amount of office building as an example. The value of office accommodation built by the private sector as at June 1969 was $ 1 1 lm. In 1973, which was the beginning of the boom period, the spending in this area rose to $403m. That was not simply the result of inflation. There was real investment in office accommodation in Australia in those years. A great deal of it, as the honourable gentleman knows, was in the city of Sydney. I suspect- in fact, I think it is as plain as the nose on my face- that there was too much investment in office accommodation in those years. It is going to take another year or so for the available office accommodation to be mopped up. One of the propositions put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  as a solution to the problems is that this Government- he would have done this if the Australian Labor Party had been in office- should encourage the building of more office accommodation to keep the construction industry going. How ridiculous can one be? At this moment one can lease any quantity of office accommodation one wishes in Sydney and Melbourne, and to a lesser degree in Adelaide and Brisbane, at $6 a square foot. The office accommodation that the Opposition wants to be built would cost $15 a square foot. That is an example of the hairy way in which the Opposition thinks about the construction industry. As I have said, the Government acknowledges that the position is worse in New South Wales than anywhere else. 
I would like to take up the point that the honourable gentleman first discussed- the one about unemployment. The position is that in February the actual number of registered unemployed fell by 40 200 to 303 000. After seasonal adjustment the number of unemployed declined by 2700 to 254 000. The number of unemployed, excluding school-leavers, on a seasonally adjusted basis fell by 6700 to 231 000. 1 direct the attention of the honourable gentleman and the House to the figures released by the Commonwealth Employment Service. I am sure that we all have access to the same sets of figures. Dealing with New South Wales alone, the figures show that in September of last year, when the Labor Party was in office, the total number of unemployed was 122 606 or 5.5 per cent of the work force. The February figures- the latest set of figures I could find- show that the total number of unemployed fell to 107 91 1. 
I am talking about the figures to which I have access and which are up to date. 
We will have a look at those directly. The honourable gentleman mentioned also the unfilled vacancies. According to the figures I have before me, the unfilled vacancies rose from just over 9000 in September to over 1 1 000 at the end of February. So there is at least a trend in the right direction. No one is going to say that the unemployment position will go away suddenly, because obviously it will not. 
Dealing with the private sector, I would like to enlarge upon the point I have made about private investment. The private sector traditionally has commissioned about two-thirds of all the building and construction work done, although in the years about which we have been talking the figure was almost three-quarters. Let us look at the position concerning the building industry in all sections except the civil engineering section. One of our problems is that statistical information is not readily available. I presume that both sides of this House are in agreement on that point. In fact the figures in this respect very often are 9 months late and by the time a government has taken some action to correct a problem the problem has gone or is infinitely worse. The total building industry in all sections except the civil engineering section represents about 10 per cent of the gross national product. Of the 386 000 people employed in the building industry when it is at full capacity, 17 450-odd were unemployed in January of this year. That means that 4 per cent of the work force in the building industry was unemployed at that stage. That is fractionally above the national average. 
As we all know, a reduction of $ 137m in the program of Commonwealth projects has been announced. That in fact has not been the drastic reduction in the work load that industry leaders and the sort of media coverage that we have heard quoted today suggest. Of the $ 137m in deferred projects, one job alone, which was to be in Sydney, was to the value of $47 m. That takes a great big lump out of the total amount of the projects deferred. Only a very small amount of that $ 137m could have been spent this financial year- something like $6m. In fact, when the figures are determined at the end of this financial year it will be found that, in spite of the deferments and the so-called Government cutbacks and Hayden cutbacks that the honourable gentleman mentioned, an amount of $7. 5m more than anticipated has been spent. 
We have been stuck with an awful lot of problems. It is a great shame that we did not get into office about 12 months earlier. As I have said, we acknowledge that there has been a downturn in the industry. We were warning the then Government about that 2 years ago, as were industry leaders throughout the country, architects and engineers. The Labor Government did not seem to understand the long lead times that are involved in the construction industry, and certainly in the non-residential side of the construction industry. After one decides to build something one has to do 12 months of planning before letting the job go to tender. So most reasonably sized jobs can be expected to take 3 years and up to 6 years to complete. Let us face it, although the building and construction industry is in severe difficulties it is not the only industry that is in trouble. What about the beef industry, the fruit industry, the dairy industry and the shipbuilding industry? It is easier to find an industry that is not in trouble. I suggest to the honourable member for Robertson that what we should do is to acknowledge that there is a problem in the building and construction industry but let us put the blame fairly and squarely where it belongs, and that is on the people who sit on the Opposition benches. 
I can remember prior to the 1972 election the Leader of the Labor Party, the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  promising in his policy speech to reduce interest rates. What happened? He increased interest rates by 50 per cent. 
Not by 50 per cent. In fact they have been reduced. The Leader of the Labor Party promised to reduce the cost of a house by from $2,000 to $6,000. Everybody knows that the cost of a house since that time has almost doubled. It has certainly doubled in New South Wales which is the particular area under discussion at the moment. It is the policies of the former Government that have put us in our present position. There has been an expansion in public spending. Converting expenditure in the last 3 months of last year to an annual basis, 40 per cent of the gross domestic product was taken up in public spending, and that is a situation that we wish to reverse. The previous Government went flat out on the pace-setter principle in increasing the size of the Public Service and introducing maternity leave and paternity leave. They are all, perhaps, desirable things but someone has to pay. Unemployment benefits were increased. Certainly we need all these items which the honourable member for Robertson talked about. 
You mentioned the retraining scheme and the Regional Employment Development scheme. They are all great schemes provided the country can afford them. We say that the country cannot afford them. This is an area in which we are cutting back expenditure. The Opposition seems to have a philosophy that the non-workers should be paid as much as the workers. The only area in which the Opposition cut down expenditure when it was in office was in the area of defence, to its eternal discredit. It is true that the Hayden Budget did attempt to introduce some cutbacks but the then Treasurer budgeted for a deficit of nearly $3,000m. In spite of the fact that we have applied economies and prevented waste and saved an amount of $360m, as everybody knows the deficit at this moment is $5,000m. It would be not impossible- but I think unlikely- that the deficit could have been double what the Labor Administration expected. I wonder- and I ask the honourable member for Robertson- what the Budget deficit would have been if the Labor Party had got those 2 1 Bills through the Senate. We would have been headed for a banana republic inflation situation. 
We take the view that inflation is the No. 1 enemy. It is absolutely fundamental to our cause that we reduce inflation by cutting down public spending and waste, restoring confidence in the private sector of the economy and not putting up taxes. These are the only ways in which we can do this. We do make the point that we cannot do it alone. We need the support of the States. We need the support of other authorities and we need the support of those who lead the work force. The combined public spending of the States and their authorities is greater than the spending of the Commonwealth Government. We make a plea to the States to do the same thing as we in government are doing, that is, cutting back waste. We make a plea to the leaders of the trade union movement to show restraint in demands for wage increases. Every time wages for employees in a particular union go up other people are put out of work. This is the area in which we need co-operation. The Government maintains that we have given a responsible lead in these matters. We have frozen the limit on the size of the Public Service. In my own Department there has already been a reduction of about 500 people. We have not retrenched anybody. People have retired and not been replaced. Every penny that is spent in every department today is looked at very carefully. 
Let me consider the position of my own State of South Australia. Eighty per cent of the public spending by the South Australian Government involves day labour. Nobody in South Australia, including the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  who is smiling and nodding apparently in agreement, knows what it costs for public works. Nobody knows what it cost to put up that jetty at Port Lincoln because the work was done by day labour and there is no public accountability. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. 
Construction of the following Government offices has been deferred: 
Oakleigh, Victoria. 
Parramatta, New South Wales. 
I thank the honourable member for the question and for his continuing interest in this subject. As he will be aware, a joint committee of Commonwealth and State officials has been established to control, supervise and review the design and construction of the second Derwent crossing. The joint committee has already forwarded its first progress report to the Prime Minister. The first stage of the committee's work is to carry out the technical investigations associated with the second bridge. This phase is expected to last at least 18 months. With the approval of the Committee, the Tasmanian Department of Public Works has appointed Maunsell and Partners as consulting engineers for the design of the bridge and related investigations. These investigations include a river transport study to assess the type and nature of the vessels which may need to go under the bridge, a development impact study to assess the effects of a second bridge on land use and development in the greater Hobart region, a traffic impact study and an environmental impact statement. Five consultants have already been appointed to undertake aspects of this work. The joint committee is also working with the Hobart Marine Board to determine navigational aids required for the bridge. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no allocation for the construction of incinerators at airports and seaports in 1975-76. 
There is no proposal to construct incinerators in 1975-76. 
See (2) above. Incinerators can be built by the Department of Construction only when they are included in an approved works program. 
The design, construction and maintenance of incinerators at airports are complex technical tasks. These should continue to be carried out on behalf of the client department by the Department of Construction which has the necessary expertise and experience. The Department of Transport has functional responsibility for airport incinerator administration and operation. A transfer of this responsibility to the Department of Health is under consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As I have previously announced the Government took action to defer commencement in construction of a number of projects throughout Australia; the total estimated cost of all these works was $ 137m of which $6m would have been spent in 1975-76 had the projects proceeded. These projects will be considered for inclusion in the 1976-77 Civil Works Program. 
The projects affected are works for Civil Departments and aggregate about 250 individual works in the various States and Territories. If the honourable gentleman wishes to obtain information about a specific project, I will be happy to assist him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Departmental payments to each airline for travel within Australia during the last two years were: 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of a navy supply centre and army workshop facility at defence establishment, Zetland New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the redevelopment of the exLeyland car manufacturing plant at Zetland for Defence purposes as: (a) a Navy supply centre, and (b) an Army workshop and servicing facility. The extent of the works proposed comprises construction of one major new building, conversion and rehabilitation of existing buildings, and the installation of specialised stores handling and vehicle servicing facilities. A complete fire detection system is proposed for all buildings, together with an improved fire suppression installation. Rationalisation and upgrading of engineering services, renewal of major sections of roofing of 3 buildings and any necessary minor maintenance to buildings is also included. The cost of the proposal at April 1976 prices is $ 14.2m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I saw reports in several newspapers on Tuesday of a statement issued by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in which he said, for example, that the building industry, particularly the non-residential sector, was already reeling. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition made a lot of other statements which I can demonstrate are false. On the day that he issued this statement, had he taken the trouble to look at the figures put out by the Bureau of Statistics, which is the only official source of figures, he would have found that they put the exactly opposite position. The total of non-residential approvals during the period February to April has shown a steady increase. In February the total was $117m, in March $147m and in April $182m. The private sector has also shown a steady increase from $65m to $81m in April. These are the most recent figures. 
The honourable member asked about New South Wales. The same position applies in that State. I have the building approval figures for New South Wales up to the end of March only. They also show a steady increase. The value of approvals totalled $92m for January and $ 105m for March. The value of all building approvals, which include home building, also has improved over the last 3 months. In February the value of all building approvals amounted to $426m and in April it amounted to $53 lm. The number of housing approvals also is on the increase. In February there were 12 000 approvals in the private sector and in April there were 12 800 approvals. So I put the view that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is quite inaccurate in the figures he has published. The Government's economic policies are starting to work and an increasing number of individuals and corporations do have confidence in the future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's answer to Question No. 526 on 26 May 1976. (House of Representatives  Hansard,  page 2525). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Construction arranges construction of buildings on behalf of other Commonwealth Departments and statutory bodies, Contracts are arranged to provide best value for money spent, and except in special circumstances, following the invitation of public tenders. 
The Department conforms with any specific purchasing policies originating from the Office of the Purchasing Commission within the Department of Administrative Services, wherever appropriate. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969-1974, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of sleeping accommodation for 80 Women's Royal Australian Army Corps personnel atPuckapuny al, Victoria. 
The proposal will consist of accommodation buildings and a central recreation building. The recreation building will contain a lounge area, a kitchenette and a visitors' room. The accommodnon buildings will contain groups of single bedrooms, with each group sharing toilet, shower, hair-washing, laundry and common-room facilities. The buildings will be of flat-type construction, having brick external walls, with timber window frames, carpeted concrete floors and metal deck roofs, with finishes and furniture appropriate to similar private sector accommodation. The faculty will conform to scales and standards of accommodation for the Services. The current limit of cost estimate is $900,000. Sketch plans for the proposal are being developed based on the description outlined, and these will be available for presentation to the Committee towards the end of June 1976. 1 table a location plan for the proposal. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Seventeen persons are employed by the Department of Construction on a full time basis on recruitment, publicity, selection and appointment of staff. Total cost incurred by way of salaries is approximately $ 1 80,000 per annum. In addition, one person is employed by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation on a part time basis at an annual cost of$3,520. 
Neither the Department nor the Corporation engage private recruiting agencies to assist in the recruitment of staff. 
Nil. 
The facilities of the Commonwealth Employment Service are utilised from time to time to assist in the recruitment of staff. No charge is made for this service. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to estimate with any degree of accuracy increased construction costs for the National Animal Health Laboratory at Geelong; any variation in costs would depend to a large extent on labour and material" prices throughout the duration of the project, as well as on the competitiveness of the market when tenders are invited for each element of the job. 
Telephone Installations in the Electorate of Batman (Question No. 686) 
The manufacturing and retailing of carpets is a subject on which I did have an interest prior to becoming a Minister. I received a telegram from the honourable member for Corio on this matter yesterday. I have written to him today and he should receive that letter during the course of this afternoon. There is a problem in the carpet industry, as there are problems in some other industries, particularly in relation to imports from New Zealand which is the area in which I think the honourable member is interested. This matter is under close investigation by my Department. At this stage I am not able to give the honourable member a fuller answer than that. The position is made difficult by the arrangements we have with New Zealand. It is made doubly difficult by the fact that Australian manufacturers of carpets use mostly New Zealand wool. As I say, this matter is under investigation. As soon as there is a sensible answer I shall see that the honourable member receives it. 
There is a considerable amount of information and a series of questions in that so-called question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I think that what he is saying is that this year the Government will not be spending as much as last year on Commonwealth works, having regard to inflation. The honourable gentleman acknowledges that is really what it is all about. The position is that this year the Commonwealth Government will be spending $2 1.4m more than last year on Commonwealth works. At this moment there is no building cost inflation at all in the nonresidential construction industry. Tenders being received are lower than the estimates by my Department, so there is really no inflation rate in building costs at all at the moment. There seems to be a general confidence in builders and people engaged in the heavy industries. In fact I have some reports of large companies such as Costain Australia Ltd, Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd and brickworks- a whole range of large companies. These have turned in good reports for the last financial year. They have indicated that in their view the Commonwealth Government's policies will be excellent for this year and into the long term. In fact there is a problem which is exacerbated by people like the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who always refer back to 1973. 1 put it to him and to the House that that is not the best year with which to make a comparison. That was a boom year. The situation that arose in that year could not continue. As a result of what happened in that year we now have more vacant office accommodation in this country, particularly in Sydney and Melbourne, than one could poke a stick at. The policy of the previous Government was to continue to build office accommodation for government offices, which was really quite ridiculous. At the moment, it is possible to lease office accommodation for $6 or $7 a square foot. If we had continued with the previous Government's policy the leasing of office accommodation would be costing about $15 a square foot. I will carefully examine the question when I get a copy of it. It will be a pleasure to deal with it. In my view, the industry itself now believes that the policies we are pursuing will get it out of its problems. We cannot ever consider that we should continue in a situation where there is a lot of fat which is non-productive. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969 it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of a navy supply centre and army workshop facility at defence establishment, Zetland, N.S. W. 
The proposal is for the redevelopment of the exLeyland car manufacturing plant at Zetland for defence purposes as a Navy supply centre and an Army workshop and servicing facility. The proposed works comprise the modification of existing buildings for use as offices, warehouses, workshops and warehouse support facilities; the construction of a gas, acid and flammable liquid store; the rationalisation of existing services to meet planned requirements; and the installation of the necessary services and equipment. The estimated cost of the proposed work, when referred to the Committee, was $ 14.2m. The Committee, in recommending the work, has concluded firstly, that there is a need for more spacious and centralised storage facilities for the Navy and for the Army workshop and servicing facility, and, secondly, that the proposed redevelopment of the Zetland complex will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Navy supply organisation and the Army workshop company. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Consolidation into Bankstown of the Bankstown and Lidcombe Government Aircraft Plants operated by Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd 
The proposal involves the provision of additional facilities at the existing Bankstown plant to enable certain operations now undertaken at Lidcombe to be transferred to, and consolidated with, the Bankstown operations. Both plants are operated by Hawker De Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. The works to be undertaken at Bankstown broadly involve: major extensions to a hanger type building for use as a workshop and major extensions to the main stores building; extensions, alterations and refurbishing of several other buildings; erection of a new administration building, including a canteen; and extensions or upgrading of associated engineering services to serve the expanded facility. 
Generally the building extensions will be constructed to match the existing facilities. The new administration building will be of reinforced concrete frame with brick infill panels. Minor landscaping is included. The cost of the project at August 1976 prices is $7. 1m. I table plans of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I would like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2) as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I thank the honourable member for the question. I cannot agree with him that the building industry is in as bad a shape as he says it is in. This question gives me the opportunity to quote from the remarks of  Mr J.  E. 
Donovan who is a chief economist of the management consultant firm of W. D. Scott and Company.  Mr Donovan  said as recently as last week, on 15 September that: 
The recession is now fading. 
He is reported to have said: 
The building and construction industry should shortly see private sector demand for its services start to rise again after an almost unbroken 18 months of contraction. 
I am prepared to table this document,  Mr Speaker,  if the honourable member would like me to do so. The report went on to say: . . . slump thinking was no longer appropriate to future planning. 
The Federal Budget and surrounding strategy, he said, had more important indirect significance for the industry than direct benefit. 
It is also a fact that building approvals are improving compared with this time last year, especially in New South Wales where the improvement is greater than the average. The amount of public work put out by the Commonwealth Government through all its departments is slightly higher than last year in the aggregate. At the moment, temporarily I believe, there is no building inflation whatsoever and in our view this is the best time to be letting contracts and the best time for the private sector to be investing in building. I think in the future we will look back to these days and say that this was the best time to invest. I hope that the private sector will invest. In fact, there is already evidence of large areas of private investment in the building industry, examples of which I could cite for the honourable gentleman. Perhaps after question time I should write a letter to the honourable gentleman giving details. 
The Government acknowledges its obligation to train apprentices. The Government trains more apprentices than any other body. But it cannot undertake to train all apprentices. Some must be trained in the private sector. This matter is under examination and I hope to be able to make an announcement shortly. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
I am grateful to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition for asking me this question. I think that people who are trying to talk down the economy of this country are doing it a great deal of harm. The honourable gentleman should look behind those figures. I have here some statistical information in which he may be interested. 
It may be a Dorothy Dix question but I shall treat it as though it was not. Dealing with the non-residential approvals that the honourable gentleman mentioned, we find that in August 1975 the value of approvals was $ 128.8m and that in the same month this year the figure was $ 123.2m. Admittedly there has been a small drop of about 3 per cent. However I think it is significant to remind the House and the honourable gentleman that these figures should be broken down into the government and nongovernment sectors. In August 1975 the figure for the private sector was $5 8m and that for the government sector was $70.6m. This year the position has been reversed. Approvals for the private sector amount to $79.8m, a substantial increase, and the figure for the government sector is $43.4m, which represents a decrease. This illustrates precisely the purpose of the Government's economic initiatives- to encourage the private sector and reduce the public sector. We believe that it is from the private sector that employment flows. 
Admittedly it is early days yet but it is true to say that there are straws which indicate that the Government's economic policies for the building industry are working. As for the views of people outside this place, I would like to quote for the benefit of the honourable gentleman the view of  Mr Campbell,  the Managing Director of the Hooker Corporation. I think honourable members would have to admit that he has some expertise in the building industry.  Mr Campbell  was reported on 4 October in an Australian newspaper as saying, amongst other things: 'I am convinced that recovery is under way. The present Federal economic policies should not be altered'. That is a view with which I heartily agreee. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I should like to suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Australian Film Commission Amendment Bill and the Film and Television School Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Of course, separate questions will be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit. the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I move: 
That the resolution of the House of Representatives of 3 June 1976 referring the construction of sleeping accommodation for 80 Women's Royal Australian Army Corps personnel at Puckapunyal, Victoria, to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, be rescinded. 
It was planned that the proposal commence in 1977, subject to a favourable report by the Committee and subsequent endorsement by the House. However, recent consideration of the overall accommodation situation at Puckapunyal by the Department of Defence has led to the conclusion that the project should be deferred for the present pending the completion of a detailed review of living-in accommodation availability and requirements for all 19 units in the Puckapunyal area. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) One tender for supply of broadloom carpet to the Department for a period of two years has been accepted. 
Tenders for supply of axminister carpet for a two year period and tenders for supply of broadloom carpet for the Campbell Park Offices, A.C.T., are not yet finalised. 
The period contract for broadloom carpet has been let to an Australian manufacturer namely United Carpet Mills PtyLtd. 
See (2) above. 
Tenders were invited for quantities of carpet as follows: 
For Campbell Park Offices 3 and 4, A.C.T. Approximately 20 000 square metres of Tufted Broadloom 
For period contracts for supply to Government Establishments 
Estimated requirements- 12 months Tufted Broadloom (366 cm)- 18 000 lin. metres 
Axminister (69cm)- 8500 lin. metres. 
I acknowledge the representations which have been made for some time by the honourable member for Cowper. I would remind him in relation to the building industry in northern New South Wales- particularly the timber industry- that last week or perhaps the week before in response to a question from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition I was able to demonstrate that building approvals for the private sector were improving very much. Yesterday the figures for building commencements in this country were released and so far as I am aware have not been reported anywhere in the Press. They show a significant improvement in the construction industry in Australia at the moment and I commend all honourable gentlemen to a study of those figures. A comparison of the total value of non-dwelling building commencements for the June quarter, the most recent figures available, with the previous March quarter shows that there has been an increase from $422m to $5 80m. In the private sector, and I believe that this is very significant, there has been an increase from $236m to $30 1 m, a 28 per cent increase. This is the highest since June 1974. In the June quarter the private sector had more than half the total number of commencements, or 52 per cent. 
Compared with this time last year there has been an increase of 15 per cent in the nonresidential sector. I think it is reasonable to say that the Government's economic policies and Budget strategy certainly are working in the construction industry and this, I am sure, will be of interest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The pattern is consistent in New South Wales where we all thought there had been a rather more severe recession than there had been overall. In the June 1975 quarter, the total value of building commencements in New South Wales was $3 70m. In the June quarter this year the total was $375m. That is hardly a recession. The figures for the non-residential section are highly significant to the question asked by the honourable gentleman; in June 1975 the value of commencements was $162m. That dropped to $75m in December last year, or by more than half, and I have no need to remind the honourable gentleman who was in government over that period. This figure recovered to $146m in the June quarter, an increase of 93 per cent over the December quarter and 52 per cent over the March quarter. 
Taking the time of the House for another moment or two, it is worth while breaking up the non-residential component into private and government sectors. The value of the private sector work in the non-residential component in June 1975 during the period of the previous Administration was 40 per cent of the total or $66m iri New South Wales. At the same time this year the value of private sector commencements was 66 per cent of the total. If that does not reflect success for our policies I do not know what does. My final point is that the price increase in building materials in the last quarter is the lowest since January 1973, which was before the boom. I would say to anybody anywhere in this country, and in particular in New South Wales, that now is the time to build. 
In the 60 seconds or so that are left for me to speak I would like to say to the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  who took part in this debate and for whom I have the highest affection, that I think his memory has deteriorated since he was in government. I think I quote him accurately when I say, briefly, that he said that this Government has the poorest record in respect of apprenticeship intake of any government in this country. I realise that the honourable member has been out of touch with apprenticeships, housing and all the other aspects of his former portfolio since he has been in Opposition. I think I should place on record the fact that when the honourable member was the Minister the ratio of apprentices to tradesmen was 1 : 1.77. Today it is 1 : 1.6. On 30 June 1971 when our parties were previously in government there were 547 apprentices in my Department. On 30 June 1973 when I think the honourable member was the Minister- I can see him nodding- there were 492 apprentices. On 30 June this year the number was 664 apprentices. So our record vis-a-vis apprentice training is infinitely better than that of the previous Labor Administration. 
I want to make one other point in the 30 seconds that are left to me. The figures quoted by the honourable member for Hughes in respect of non-residential commencements in this country were quite out of date. 
The honourable gentleman says that he did not quote anything, but he did. He quoted figures supplied by the Real Estate Institute of New South Wales. I asked him whether that is what he was citing as his authority. He said yes. These were Real Estate Institute figures of 18 August. I tell the honourable member that at the moment the value of private, non-residential buildings commenced is the highest since the June quarter 1974 and represents a 28 per cent increase on the value of commencements in the March quarter. I do not wish to take up any more time of the House because I realise that we have important business to be discussed in the adjournment debate. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Progress reported. 
I thank the honourable gentleman for his reference to the Department with which I entirely agree. There has been a diminution in the day labour force around Australia. I do not have the figure exactly in my mind but, as I recollect, it is about 600. Nobody has been retrenched. Those who have left have gone as a result of normal wastage. I believe that we have not decreased our efficiency at all. 
The future will have to look after itself. We believe that we can maintain our efficiency with some further reduction by wastage. 
I do remember when the Leader of the Opposition and I, at least on one occasion, agreed on a matter. I think it is probably the only occasion on which he has ever written me a note reading: 'Thanks very much for supporting me', or something of that nature. The Leader of the Opposition has given most of the information in his question. 1, too, am not sure of the exact position at this moment. I believe there was considerable improvement in the matter of standardisation even before we came into office. I shall get the up-to-date position and write to the honourable member. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Modernisation of facilities, stage 2, HMA naval dockyard, Williamstown, Vic. 
The proposal is for the provision of improved facilities for ship refitting, outfitting and administration facilities. These will allow the dockyard to better utilise the stage 1 facilities which are currently under construction and due for completion in August 1978. The proposed works comprise: 
New Nelson Pier West, crosswharf and workshop; 
Extension to existing pipe shop; New administration/training/laboratory centre; 
New dockyard store, oil fuel installation and gate house; 
Temporary fleet maintenance party workshop; 
Extension of electrical, mechanical and hydraulic services, including provision of a new boiler house; and 
Services tunnel extension. 
The cost of the proposal at July 1976 prices is $24m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There has been no approach to the Department of Construction about an electronic voting system for the House of Representatives and I have not initiated any study into the matter. 
Estimates of cost have not been prepared for the various forms of automatic voting systems. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for the payment of grants to the States for government and non-government schools in 1977, the first year of the 1977-79 rolling triennium. The Government issued guidelines for the triennial programs of the education commissions on 20 May of this year providing expenditure in 1977 of $508m, in December 1975 prices, on schools in the States. The Schools Commission's report for the 1977-79 rolling triennium was tabled in the Parliament on 18 August. The Government's decisions on the Commission's recommendations were announced in another place on 4 November. 
The Bill provides for programs estimated to cost $459.4m-at December 1975 prices-for the 1977 calendar year, the balance of the $508m, that is, $48.6m, being available under the ongoing States Grants (Schools) Act 1972. This Bill therefore honours the Government's undertakings in relation to the first year of the 1977-79 rolling triennium. The amount represents a 2 per cent growth in real terms over 1976. The grants in this Bill are expressed in June 1976 prices for capital programs, and September 1976 prices for recurrent programs, except for the nongovernment schools general recurrent program which includes an allowance for cost increases during the first half of 1977. Consequently the grants for 1977 actually incorporated in this Bill amount to an estimated $509.5m. The grants will be subject to supplementation by amending legislation for subsequent movement in costs. Supplementary funds for this purpose will be determined by movements in the schools price index after any offsetting savings are taken into account. 
The introduction of the rolling triennium will enable, as each year progresses, plans for the remaining 2 years of the triennium to be reviewed and updated and initial proposals to be made for a new third year. This Bill gives effect to the new arrangement for 1977. For years two and three of the 1977-79 triennium, the Schools Commission is to plan on the basis of a minimum growth of 2 per cent per annum over the level of expenditure in year one. 
The Government has considered recommendations of the Schools Commission against the background of its own education policies for schools. These include widening educational opportunity and promoting equality; parental choice in schooling; encouragement of community participation in education policy development and implementation; and special assistance to the educationally disadvantaged. We endorse in particular the emphasis the Schools Commission wishes to see given to moves to create two-way communication between schools, parents, employers and the community at large, and encouragement of cooperative planning between government and non-government school authorities. 
The Government welcomes moves by school communities and State governments to encourage a more active role for parents, teachers and local communities in school management and decision making. In particular it is the Government's intention that these groups participate with government and non-government school authorities in planning activities under the disadvantaged country areas program. 
The Bill gives effect to several new initiatives proposed by the Commission. Principal among these are programs for disadvantaged country areas, to which I have just alluded, emergency aid for non-government schools in temporary financial difficulties, particularly in country areas, and grants for the education of children living in institutions. Funds will also be available for the first time in 1977 for the provision of boarding facilities in non-government schools. The Government has decided to guarantee loans for approved non-government school building projects and to implement a scheme of advance offers of building grants for these schools to enable projects to be commenced sooner than would otherwise be the case. Legislation to authorise the former of these 2 schemes will be introduced in the autumn session, while the latter does not call for legislation. 
General Resources Programs 
As indicated in the Government's statement tabled in the House on 10 November, we have accepted the Commission's financial recommendations for government schools in broad terms but have modified the recommended distribution between States of capital grants. This modification was made after considering the basis of the recommended distribution and relating this to the existing pattern of grants in 1976. The Government considered that, in the light of 1976 allocations, the recommended total of general recurrent and capital grants for Queensland would make it too difficult for that State to implement its planned programs for 1977. The modified distribution of grants decided on by the Government results in a $1.4m addition in December 1975 prices to Queensland's allocation for general capital grants offset against slight reductions in the allocations for four other States. As is the case in relation to grants for 1976, the Commonwealth is prepared to consult with the States on the question of transfers between the allocations for general recurrent and capital grants within each State. This move is aimed at providing each State with a degree of flexibility in planning the use of grants under these 2 programs. 
The Government reaffirms its policy of providing basic  per capita  grants for all pupils in nongovernment schools while at the same time maintaining higher grants for schools in greater need. It is concerned to encourage parental choice. The Government has accepted the Schools Commission recommendation that the level of grants for non-government schools be linked automatically in future years to per pupil expenditure levels in government schools. The Government has generally accepted the Commission's recommended levels of funding for non-government schools in 1977 but has decided to increase the size of recommended general recurrent grants for the most needy primary schools from $223 to $229 per pupil, in average 1976 price levels. These schools cater for approximately 90 per cent of enrolments in nongovernment primary schools. 
The Government has decided not to proceed with the introduction of a 'Supported Schools' scheme for non-governmental schools. The per pupil grants for non-government schools in 1977 are set out in the Bill and include allowance for price increases in the first half of 1977. 
Specific Purpose Programs 
The Government will be continuing the special purpose programs in 1977, generally at about the same level of activity as in 1976, for migrant and multi-cultural education; for disadvantaged schools; for handicapped children; for educational services and development; and for special projects. The provisions incorporated in the Bill will contribute significantly to maintaining and improving primary and secondary education in both government and non-government schools in the States. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
in reply- I appreciate the contribution of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  to the debate which, I think, took about 15 seconds. The Government appreciates his support, if not his eloquence. It also appreciates the support of the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  It is regretted that more time is not available to listen to some honourable members' reminiscences. No doubt arrangements can be made with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  at a later time tonight. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I have seen a number of Press reports in recent weeks and I can only assume that there must be a prize to be awarded to some journalists in some newspapers for finding the most gloomy heading. The  Australian Financial Review  only last week carried the heading: 'No joy for building industry in ANZ survey'. The same newspaper ran a similar heading the previous week. That heading was 'Grim construction outlook'. Those 2 headings are absolutely false. In fact there is a continuing improvement in the construction industry right around Australia. Perhaps I could quote some figures just to prove that. The articles written under the headings to which I have just referred contained statements such as 'There was no sign of improvement in commercial and industrial building'. The journalists concerned should read the figures released by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. If we refer to just a couple of sets of figures, particularly in respect of work that has commenced, the work that has been done, the work that is under construction and so on, we find that there is a continuing uplift in all areas. Admittedly the figures go only from January to June, but they are improving consistently. The figures show that the value of work commenced to June this year is up by 17 per cent on that for the same time last year. The value of work under construction is up by 6 per cent, the value of work done is up by 7 per cent and the value of work to be done is up by 7 per cent. 
I was hoping that somebody would invite me to do so. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a proposed primary school at Katherine South, N.T. 
The proposal is for the construction of an airconditioned primary school for 480 students plus 50 pre-school children. It will be of a modular design being developed for future Northern Territory primary schools. It is proposed to phase completion of the school with the objective of having a learning unit for 240 students and a multi-purpose hall available for occupation from the beginning of 1979, and the remainder by June 1979. At completion the school will comprise the following accommodation: 
Two 240 student learning units 
One library/resources centre 
One administration building 
One multi-purpose unit 
One single unit pre-school. 
The estimated cost of the proposal at November 1976 prices is $2.6m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Consolidation into Bankstown of the Bankstown and Lidcombe Government Aircraft Plants operated by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. 
The proposal involves the provision of additional facilities at the existing Bankstown plant to enable the transfer of all aircraft engine and helicopter transmission overhaul and repair operations and some machine shop operations now being undertaken at Lidcombe. Both plants are operated by Hawker de Havilland Australia Pty Ltd. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7.1m. 
The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works, in recommending the construction of these works, concluded that: 
There is a continuing defence requirement for an aircraft repair and overhaul facility in the Sydney area; 
This requirement can be met most efficiently by the consolidation at Bankstown of the Bankstown and Lidcombe government aircraft plants; 
The Committee is satisfied that the present role of the Bankstown airport will continue through to the early 1 990s. 
Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The function of the National Association of Australian State Road Authorities primarily is to promote among Member Authorities uniformity in road design and operational aspects, and improvement in road construction and maintenance practices. It publishes Manuals, Guides, Policies and Standards. 
Association costs are apportioned between the Member Authorities. 
Contributions by the Commonwealth through the Department of Construction towards the operational expenses of the Association 's Secretariat have been- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
G. Warwick Smith, Secretary, Department of Construction. 
Yes. 
As the Commonwealth Government's design and construction authority for roads and pavements. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a proposed Supreme Court at Alice Springs, Northern T erritory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a 2-storey court building designed to accommodate the requirements of 4 courts and associated public areas, jury rooms, judges' and magistrates' accommodation, court reporting facilities, registry areas, and a secure area for persons in custody. Separate access and circulation within the building will be provided forjudges and magistrates, the public, and persons in custody. 
The building will be of reinforced concrete frame construction with external walls of concrete block and applied aggregate finished reinforced concrete. The building will be designed to be in harmony with surrounding development. The building will be air-conditioned throughout. Hot and chilled water to serve the air conditioning plant will be piped underground from the adjacent Commonwealth offices. An automatic fire detection system and a security alarm system will be provided. Construction of the works is expected to take a minimum of 24 months. The estimated cost of the proposal at November 1976 prices is $3.2m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
In reply- I think the short answer is yes. Earlier in the year we decided that a certain amount of money would be spent in the Northern Territory outside the Darwin area. This decision is in conformity with our policies. This reference has been referred to the Public Works Committee for investigation. One cannot say when construction of the building is likely to proceed. But the location of the building is in accordance with our guidelines and our priorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total value of contracts arranged by the Department of Construction in the Electoral Division of Evans for which construction is expected to be completed in 1976-77 is $822,000. 
Construction of Drummoyne Telephone Exchangefor Australian Telecommunications Commission-$736,000. Provision of emergency class rooms for migrant childrenfor Department of Education, at Drummoyne $23,100; Five Dock $23,100; Summer Hill $39,800-$86,000. 
and (4) There are no projects presently in construction which will not be completed in 1976-77. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nine orders only to a total value of $10,964 covering goods or materials, were placed directly outside Australia by the Department of Construction in the 12 months ending 30 September 1976. No contracts for goods or materials for the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation have been placed outside Australia in the last 12 months. In addition, the Department of Construction also placed annual subscriptions overseas covering books and publications to a value of approximately $3,400. 
Australian tenders were not received as the goods or materials were available only from overseas sources. 
Not applicable- see (2) above. 
Environment Report on Land Use in Australia  (Question No. 1700) 
in reply-I take this opportunity to thank those honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I believe that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins),  the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  and the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  each made a valuable if somewhat different sort of contribution to the debate. I think this demonstrates the desire by members on both sides of the House to take part in a debate on defence. The areas covered by this Bill are very narrow, and enthusiastic members from both sides of the House tried to expand the breadth of the Bill and debate general defence matters. I suppose it could be something of a defiance of the Chair. 
We appreciate the contributions by each honourable gentleman. I will relay to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the matter raised by the honourable member for St George. I will also convey to the Minister the thoughtful suggestion of the honourable member for Denison that perhaps some Orions should be permanently based in Tasmania. Time is drawing on and I will not delay the business of the House any longer. I thank all honourable members once again for their contributions. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) There is a substantial number of Commonwealth public works under construction and proposed in the Electoral Division of Sydney for 1976-77 and for practical reasons I have limited trie listing of works to individual projects in excess of$15,000, as at 14 December 1976. 
I move 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
I point out by way of explanation that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  is in Western Australia on Government business and I am introducing this Bill in his absence. The purpose of the Bill is to increase pension benefits payable under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973. Honourable members will recall that my colleague, the Minister for Defence, made brief reference in this House on 9 December last to the proposed introduction of the necessary legislation in the autumn session of the Parliament to give effect to the Government's pension increases undertakings. 
The Bill provides for pension increases payable in respect of the year 1976-77 to apply retrospectively to the first pension pay day in July 1976. Additionally, provision is made for the automatic annual adjustment of pensions in future years to operate also from the first pension pay day in July of each year. The need for separate Acts of Parliament which has characterised the annual pension increases granted since 1973, will, I am pleased to announce, no longer be necessary. The increases in defence forces retirement benefits and defence force retirement and death benefits pensions for the year 1976-77 and in the future will be related to the percentage increase in the consumer price index during the period of 12 months ending 31 March immediately preceding the date of effect of each annual adjustment. The pension adjustment factor for 1976-77 which derives from the movements in the consumer price index during the year ended 31 March 1 976 is 13.4 per cent. 
The adjustment provisions incorporated in the Bill are detailed and complex. I propose therefore to explain in broad terms only how they are to operate. A more detailed explanation of their practical effects will be made available to beneficiaries by the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority when the increased rates of pension become payable. For DFRB pensioners, that is those who retired prior to 1 October 1972, the amount of the increase will be determined by applying the relevant pension adjustment factor to the total pension payable as at 30 June of each year. Pensions payable to widows and the additional pension payable in respect of eligible children will be adjusted on the same basis. DFRDB pensioners- those retired since 30 September 1972- who are in receipt of retirement pay, are to receive increases by applying the same pension adjustment factor to an amount that represents the amount of retirement pay remaining as if the member had commuted to the fullest possible extent following his retirement. 
Pensions payable to the widows of DFRDB retirement pensioners will be adjusted by applying the pension adjustment factor to that proportion of the widow's pension that bears the same ratio as the member's residual pension, or notional residual pension as the case may be, to his total retirement pay at retirement. DFRDB invalidity pensions, and the pensions payable to the widows of deceased contributors and of invalidity pensioners are to be adjusted in full. Appropriate adjustments will also be made to the additional component of pensions payable to children. 
In essence, therefore, the pension updating arrangements encompassed by this Bill achieve the earlier stated aim of consistency with those currently applying to comparable classes of pensioners under the Commonwealth Public Service superannuation schemes. 
It was intended also to provide in this Bill beneficial amendments to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act designed to remove an anomaly affecting certain officers who were detrimentally affected by their transfer to the DFRDB scheme in Ocotber 1972. Drafting of the necessary amendments has raised a number of complex technical drafting difficulties. The pension updating provisions are therefore being introduced now and drafting of the amendments to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act is proceeding for introduction as quickly as possible into the House. I take the opportunity of mentioning that the Government is currently considering a number of beneficial variations to the existing legislation arising from a general review of the reversionary benefits structures of the DFRB and DFRDB schemes. I can assure the House that when the Government has made its decisions, proposed amendments will be introduced as soon as possible. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Connor)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.50 to 2.15 p.m. 
by leave- The Australian and Papua New Guinea governments have agreed that the arrangements under which the Construction Agency of the Australian Department of Construction has been operating in Papua New Guinea should be terminated and the Agency withdrawn. The 2 governments have decided on this course of action because of the increased capacity of the Papua New Guinea works authorities and the somewhat reduced size of the current Papua New Guinea works program. The Construction Agency, which replaced the Department of Construction's regional organisation at the end of 1975, originally had a staff of approximately 200 comprising expatriate Australians and Papua New Guinea nationals. The withdrawal of staff eligible to return to positions within the Public Service within Australia has been going on for some months, and is expected to be complete early in March 1977. In the main, these staff have taken up positions with the Department of Construction. Satisfactory arrangements have also been made for the Papua New Guinea nationals to be employed with the Papua New Guinea Public Service, or in the private sector. 
The staff of the Agency deserve tribute for the work they have done in Papua New Guinea. They have been involved in many aspects of infrastructure development in Papua New Guinea including the provision of transport facilities, water supplies, communication networks and power stations. Many projects such as the Nadzab airport development, the Ramu hydroelectric scheme and the Bank of Papua New Guinea building come to mind. The staff of the Agency have also undertaken a substantial training role in Papua New Guinea. 
The facilities of the Department of Construction will continue to be available on request to the Government of Papua New Guinea on terms which may be agreed between the 2 Governments from time to time. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: HMA Naval Dockyard, Williamstown, Vic- Modernisation of facilities, stage 2. 
The proposal is for the provision of improved ship refitting facilities and outfitting and administration facilities. The proposed work comprises: New Nelson Pier West, crosswharf and workshop; extension to existing pipe shop; new dockyard store, oil fuel installation and gate house; temporary fleet maintenance party workshop; extension of electrical, mechanical and hydraulic services, including provision of new boiler house; and services tunnel extension. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $24m at July 1976 prices. 
In the first place, this matter was referred to the Public Works Committee. I think the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  referred to the Public Accounts Committee. Perhaps it would not be inappropriate to read from the report an extract from the evidence taken by that Committee. This is relevant to the inquiry made by the honourable member. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I assume no one else is desirous of speaking on this subject? 
in reply- Might I say that I looked around the chamber earlier and there was no one standing. I had no wish to close the debate then if anyone had wished to make a contribution. I think that the remarks of the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  were not in particularly good taste, especially having regard to the fact that he was the Minister with this responsibility in the previous Government. The remarks of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  seem to me to be entirely appropriate and I think they answered the criticisms of some of the other speakers. The honourable member for Hughes is a former  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee - 
The present Chairman has reminded me that he was a distinguished chairman and is, I think, currently the Deputy Chairman of the Public Works Committee. So the Committee is in good hands. I need to go on and complete the document which I was reading earlier. The Public Works Committee, reporting favourably on the construction of this work, has commented: 
The Committee note with concern that there are no specific proposals for a destroyer construction program and suggest that other avenues be explored to explore the maximum utilisation of ship construction facilities. 
In regard to this comment the Government has commenced investigations into the concepts, characteristics and costs of destroyers, preferably for construction in Australia. The use of Williamstown Naval Dockyard for the construction of new destroyers will figure predominantly in these considerations. Constructions of other naval vessels will also be examined against the background of capability and work load at the dockyard. The Committee recommended: 
The Department of Defence and the Department of Construction should consult further to ensure that the proposed extension to the Melbourne Harbour Trust Wharf is really necessary. 
The Government accepts this recommendation and arrangements will be made for the Department of Defence and the Department of Construction to re-examine the need to extend the Melbourne Harbour Trust Wharf. I will also ensure that the Committee is advised of the outcome of further examinations. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. I refer all honourable members interested in this matter to the report and recommend that they read it because it is a very interesting and comprehensive report and there is a whole page dealing with need, which is the matter raised by the honourable member for Hughes. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I can assure the honourable member for the Northern Territory that I am very much aware of the situation in Darwin. He may remember making representations early last month, as a result of which I went to Darwin and spent a couple of days there. I met business leaders, members of the Legislative Assembly, local authorities, unions and all interested organisations. As a result of that visit the Government decided to set up an independent inquiry into the Darwin generating facilities. The  chairman  of that inquiry is  Mr F.  A. McKay, who is the north Queensland manager of the State Electricity Commission, and a very well respected officer. That inquiry is currently proceeding. We expect that it will be completed by 4 March and that the report will be received by the Government by the end of May. We shall take action when we receive that report. 
We have taken out figures on the power failure situation in Darwin for the period mentioned by the honourable gentleman- in fact, during the last 13 months. Power failures have affected the average consumer on 30 occasions, totalling SO hours. Half of that SO-hour failure has been caused by the withdrawal of labour from the power house at Stokes Hill. The Public Service unions involved want to work overtime. They do not want us to put on extra staff. We are happy with that. The problem is that they are now banning the working of overtime. Because of the way in which the shifts operate- 21 shifts in a 7-day week- the twenty-first shift is an overtime shift. It is on a Tuesday. When they ban the working of overtime there is no power in Darwin that day. That is the nub of the problem. There is a dispute currently between the Public Service Board and the Public Service unions. It is currently before the Arbitrator. I am hoping that common sense will prevail and that reasonable power facilities will be restored to the people of Darwin. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of Royal Australian Air Force Base, Point Cook, Victoria. 
The proposal comprises 2 elements of the overall development at the Royal Australian Air Force base at Point Cook. They are the construction of sleeping accommodation for 96 airmen and the provision of facilities for the No. 1 Flying Training School. The accommodation portion of the proposal consists of six 2 -storey buildings of brick construction, providing facilities for sleeping, toilet, ablution, laundry and common room accommodation. The facilities for the No. 1 Flying Training School comprise: No. 1 Flying Training School headquarters, containing administration and ground training functions of the School, constructed of reinforced concrete, providing necessary sound attenuation; flightline buildings for the control and supervision of aircraft line operations including the co-ordination of maintenance and servicing, the building to be of concrete construction to provide necessary sound attenuation; No. 1 Flying Training School maintenance squadron headquarters and workshops, to be of masonry and metal construction. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $2.55m at February 1977 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable gentleman who asks the question has placed a question on notice on this matter. I propose to answer the question on notice in some detail, not the question without notice. I deny the suggestion which is inherent in the honourable member's question that the transfer of resources to the private sector will create unemployment. We believe that lowering the percentage of in-house design work within the Department will give added opportunities to the private sector and will create employment, both professional and nonprofessional. However, it is an important and complex question and I should like to have the opportunity to reply on notice, as I have been asked. 
-On behalf of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to remove the requirement under section 80b of the Defence Act 1903 for collectors of Service decorations to obtain permits for that purpose. The existing requirement is seen by the Government as an unnecessary restriction on collectors who have taken a great interest in Australia's military heritage and done much to preserve our military relics. However, the Government is conscious of the need to control the use of Service decorations, particularly the need to ensure that they are treated with respect. Accordingly, it will remain an offence for a person to unlawfully wear a Service decoration; falsely represent himself to be a person entitled to wear a Service decoration; or deface or destroy a Service decoration. The Government has recognised that some use of Service decorations is legitimate and has approved an extension to an existing provision to allow Service decorations, as well as emblems and uniforms, to be worn in dramatic performances. In order to bring up to date the existing legislation, a provision has been inserted to make it clear that dramatic performances might include televised performances. The Government has naturally decided to retain the provision allowing a member of the family of a person on whom a Service decoration has been conferred to wear that decoration, provided he does not represent himself as being the person on whom the decoration was conferred. This provision, of course, covers familiar Anzac Day practice. 
The measure embodied in this Bill was suggested by the Military Historical Society of Australia and supported by the National Executive of the Returned Services League of Australia. The Government believes that the measure represents a proper balance between the need to encourage collectors of Service decorations who are contributing to the conservation of our military heritage and the need to protect the Service decorations, whether in the hands of collectors or not, from any form of misuse. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Young)  adjourned. 
I have a number of half-yearly reports and annual reports of companies. In fact, in my office I have a file which I should like to use in this Parliament. I have been hoping that someone from the other side of the House would raise for discussion a matter of public importance regarding this matter so that we could debate it rather than deal with it at question time when there is not the opportunity to spend time on it. Let me take a few examples. Within the last 2 or 3 days we have received a report from Costain Australia Ltd that its profit is up by 39 per cent. That is its eighth profit increase. A survey by John P. Young and Associates Pty Ltd indicates that there is an upturn in all sections of the construction industry. These are people who are not in any way beholden to the Government. Philip Shrapnel and Co. Pty Ltd, a firm of consultants in the construction industry, indicate that the property market is showing distinct signs of coming out of the recession. John Holland (Constructions) Pty Ltd has had a record profit. Brickworks all over the country have shown a profit. I think that E. A. Watt Pty Ltd, for example, is back operating on a profit making basis after a period of making losses during the term of office of the previous Administration. I have a list of literally hundreds of companies which are now operating on a profit making basis. I refuse to agree that there is any recession in the building industry. The building and construction industry is improving. If I might be allowed to deal with a few statistics - 
I should like to incorporate them in  Hansard  but I doubt whether I would receive agreement to that course being followed. The value of all building approvals for the 12 months ended December last has risen from $4,720m to $5,800m-a $ 1,100m increase in all building approvals. That is hardly a slip backwards. For the months of January there have been steady increases, from $320m in January 1975, the year when the Australian Labor Party went out of office, to $537m last January- the most recent figure. The same pattern emerges when we look at New South Wales which has been in the most difficult situation and from which State the honourable gentleman who asked the question comes. The total value of building approvals for that State is up by $200m over the 1975 figure and the January approvals this year are up by 45 per cent over the January 1975 figure. I think that the number of housing approvals was dealt with yesterday by the Treasurer. The value of non-residential approvals which is the most difficult area also has shown a steady increase over the last 12 months. Contrary to what the honourable gentleman infers, the private sector is emerging much more strongly than the government sector. I think it is fair to say that the Government's policies are working. I think that people who try to talk down the building industry are doing the industry a bad turn. I suggest that some of the Premiers, significantly the one from New South Wales, ought to be doing more to encourage private investment in their States and in that way encourage not only the building industry but all industries. I believe the Government policies are working very well. 

 Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a short statement on the same subject. 
The Government appreciates the work done by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. In fact, I am sure the Parliament does. The  Chairman,  the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  indicated to me that he would be raising this matter in his statement associated with the report, so I have had an opportunity to prepare a response on that subject. The position is that the comments in the summary referred to by the  Chairman  are virtually confined to one line or 2-line entries. For this reason they tend to oversimplify the situation. The estimated completion dates have been calculated by adding the estimated time required for documentation to the estimated time required for construction. These times presume that the project will be included on the next works program. This is not always possible because of Budget constraints. The Geelong animal health laboratory is one of 12 projects not yet admitted to a works program but still in the design stage. 
The estimated completion dates also do not allow for possible external delays such as alterations by a client department, changing conditions in the industry and other influences. For example, the tabling of the Tennant Creek Hospital report and expediency motion enabling the Department of Construction to proceed with design were delayed by 4 months due to the double dissolution of Parliament in April 1 974. Some of the anticipated completion dates given under the column ' Current Position ' refer only to minor aspects of the project where practical completion was achieved much earlier. An example is the East Alligator Road which carries the comment '99 per cent complete, anticipated completion May 1977'. This road reached practical completion in November 1974, which was on time, but finalisation of some minor items has been prolonged mainly because of cyclone Tracy. 
Another problem with time estimation occurs with very large developments which are staged and introduced to the works program in a number of separate elements, as budgetary considerations allow. An example is the Townsville Royal Australian Air Force base development, which was shown on the schedule and described in evidence as consisting of 2 stages, with documentation and construction of stage one taking 25 months. This implied a completion date of October 1974. In fact, this project has been introduced to works programs in 18 separate elements from November 1973 to the current year's program. I have arranged for my Department to prepare an analysis- the Department prepared the schedule- of all 64 references, and I shall make this information available to the Committee as soon as it is ready. 
-in reply- Very briefly, I thank the honourable gentleman for his contribution to this debate. I feel that it is necessary to inform the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  at least that sarcasm in these circumstances is not appropriate. Obviously his mind is on other matters. I note that he feels so strongly about this issue that he has left the chamber. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Ceiling fans have been installed in the public space in the vicinity of counters in Post Offices in New South Wales for many years. 
Yes. 
The Department has not had any previous indication that there has been a problem associated with the use of these fans. 
The Bexley Post Office has been inspected. 
Immediate arrangements are being made to relocate the fans at the Bexley Post Office so that the downdraft will be away from the counter surface. 
Foreign Vessels Fishing in Australian Waters (Question No. 334) 
I present the official report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to the United States of America. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I seek leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of proposed new complex for the Antarctic Division Headquarters and for the Hobart Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories- Kingston, Tasmania. 
The Proposal involves the construction of eight separate structures, seven of which will be occupied by the Antarctic Division and which will provide accommodation for offices, display and conference areas, laboratories, workshops and stores while the remaining one will contain separate offices and laboratories for the Hobart Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. 
The buildings will be constructed with reinforced concrete columns and precast concrete wall panels. The roof will be of insulated galvanised steel decking, and windows will be of tinted glass in aluminium frames. All occupied areas in the laboratories, administrative buildings, and instrument workshop will be air conditioned. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7.3m at March 1977 prices. 
I now table plans of the proposed work. 
in reply- I thank honourable gentlemen for the interesting debate. Although it is not really relevant to what is happening in Tasmania, the design work on the National Animal Health Laboratory is proceeding. The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  introduced this matter into the debate. The work is proceeding in the early design stages. There is quite a commitment of professional people. As the honourable member said, no funds are yet available to proceed with the project any further than that stage. I should like to make a brief comment as a result of what the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said in reference to the Public Works Committee. I note that the  Deputy Chairman  and, I think, the  Chairman  are both in the chamber this afternoon. I believe there is a tendency for people- the honourable member for Corio obviously is one- to assume that simply because a reference goes to that Committee it will be agreed to. In fact there is a tendency to assume that the Public Works Committee will be just a rubber stamp. I think that is highly undesirable and in fact it would be something of an irritation to people on that Committee and perhaps might encourage them to be difficult on some projects. I hope that does not become too much of a general practice. 
Some announcements have been made recently in which it has been assumed that the Public Works Committee will adopt a certain procedure. I think that is a dangerous assumption. I refer briefly to the 16 months that have been lost'. That is the word that people have used. I make the point again- my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  has already said this-that the Government has been looking at other sites. It would be foolish not to find the best site available. This is the reason for the delay. The client department, in this case the Department of Science, wishes to be sure it has the best site. The Leader of the Opposition also mentioned Albury-Wodonga. This gives me the opportunity to refer to a project at AlburyWodonga which did not even go to the Cabinet, as far as I am aware, much less to the Public Works Committee. 
-That is the Clyde Cameron Trade Union Training College. 
I think honourable members will find that there are unusual circumstances surrounding the reference of that project. The reason for this project not going to the PWC has been referred to a couple of times. An election interrupted the procedures. We must pay tribute to the present honourable member for Denison. If it had not been for the constant and persistent representation from that gentleman the period might have been longer than 16 months. I echo the sentiments of everybody who spoke in this debate. I hope the Public Works Committee will approve the project and consider it a good project and that it will be recommended to proceed without any further delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The total value of Commonwealth contracts let by the Department of Construction in the Electoral Division of 
Perth for which construction is expected to be completed in 1976-77 is $835,711. 
(a) and (b) The projects, and their individual values, referred to in part ( 1 ) are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2). The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction and currently under construction or proposed in the Electoral Division of Prospect for 1976-77: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Within the Department of Construction staff ceilings are being achieved by reductions through natural wastage; this is occurring in professional, clerical/administrative and direct labour areas. The number of professionals (architects. engineers and quantity surveyors) expressed as a percentage of total employees, was marginally higher at December 1976 than at the start of that year ( 10.6 per cent compared with 10.1 percent). 
In line with Government policy of reducing the size of. the Public Service, design and development work carried out by consultants as a percentage of the total will increase as design resource capacity within the Department of Construction decreases. I do not agree that this will increase the cost of such work. 
and (4) This decision was a reflection of the Government's desire to reduce the relative size of the public sector. The decision was not made in the belief that work undertaken by the Department of Construction is necessarily either less efficient or more costly than similar work undertaken in the private sector. 
There has been no decision calling for increase in selective tendering. It is Departmental practice that tenders be invited publicly unless special circumstances obtain. In addition, where selective tendering methods are used, competition is maintained by ensuring that wherever practical at least five contractors are invited to tender. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1), (2) and (3) The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction in the electoral division of Canning which are currently under construction or proposed during 1976-77, and projects completed since May 1974: 
J move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions or the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of the military area at Randwick, N.S.W. 
The proposed works comprise construction of living and working accommodation for the Army, joint Services recreational facilities and all associated engineering services. The living accommodation will provide permanent facilities for Army personnel located at Randwick and will also meet the needs of other units in the south Sydney metropolitan area. It comprises officers and senior non-commissioned officers messes and sleeping accommodation, providing messing for 59 officers and 105 SNCOs and sleeping accommodation for 48 officers and 76 SNCOs, rank and file messes and sleeping accommodation consisting of 4 three-storied buildings, housing 72 servicemen and 24 servicewomen. The buildings will be grouped together and adjacent to new dining-recreation facilities for 325. 
The working accommodation will replace substandard, uneconomic facilities at Randwick, Moore Park, South Head and Ingleburn and will provide facilities not currently available in the south Sydney metropolitan area. It will comprise area and unit administration building, stores building, military police building and transport buildings and compound. The joint services recreational facilities will provide for physical training and a variety of recreational needs for the military personnel. A complex comprising squash courts, gymnasium, change rooms and offices for instructional personnel is proposed. Outdoor facilities include a variety of playing fields and courts. The estimated cost of the works at February 1977 prices is $ 13m. I table plans of the proposed works. 
-in reply-In quick response to the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  I should say that I appreciate his remarks and that I do not know whether the local council has been consulted. I would be surprised if it has not been consulted because it is the practice of my Department and of the Department of Defence to keep on side with local authorities. Quite apart from that, I should emphasise that this is residential development of a good quality. I regret that there was no time to distribute the publications attached to this minute before I brought them in today because the honourable gentleman would have been able to see the quality of the development. This is a referral to the Public Works Committee, and the principal function of that Committee is to receive evidence. I am sure that residents of the area and other interested parties will be invited to give evidence and ask questions of the Committee when it meets. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
in reply- I think that the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  may have been referring to what is stated in paragraph 63 on page 10 of the report of the Joint Committee on Public Works which states: 
The Committee was disturbed that responsibility for the control and maintenance of the old cell block after its restoration has yet to be determined. 
I imagine that that is the paragraph to which the honourable member is referring. I think that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  really has just dealt with that. If the honourable member looks at the  Hansard  record tomorrow he will see that the motion clearly states that the Department of Administrative Services has accepted responsibility for the utilisation, management and maintenance of the old cell block after restoration. I believe that that would answer the honourable gentleman's queries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction which have been commenced or approved for commencement this financial year in the Electoral Divisions of Chifley, Macarthur, Macquarie, Mitchell, Parramatta, Prospect and Werriwa. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Construction of a proposed animal quarantine station, Wallgrove, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the construction of a comprehensive quarantine station to allow expert attention, supervision and housing for pedigreed and valuable breeding stock and household pets brought into the country. Construction will be reinforced concrete floor slabs, brick walls and insulated galvanised steel trough deck roofing. 
Walls will be face brickwork, hard plaster and ceramic tiles. Floor finishes will suit the requirements of the various areas. Ceilings will be underside of trough deck roofing, plasterboard and fibreboard. Air conditioning will be provided to the administration offices. Other mechanical installations include chiller rooms, cooling, laundry, food preparation and cooking equipment, hot water and vehicle servicing equipment. Other engineering services to be provided include electrical, water supply and sewerage and fire fighting. The estimated cost of the proposal at February 1977 prices is $4.6m. 
During the course of a debate we had yesterday on another reference to the Public Works Committee, questions were raised as to whether or not these matters are referred to local government authorities. I draw the attention of the House to page 6 of the statement of evidence which indicates that the proposal presented to the Committee has been referred to the Blacktown Municipal Council, the State Department of Health, the Department of Main Roads, and the Metropolitan Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board. All of those bodies advised that there is no objection to the proposal going ahead on the proposed site. 
in reply- I do not believe that there is concern within the Department of Construction along the lines which have been expressed by the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  As a direct reply to his query I can say that the statement I have just made was prepared by the Acting Senior Assistant Secretary of our central office in Melbourne. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the first annual report, that for 1 975-76, of the Department of Construction. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The following is a list of Commonwealth projects arranged by the Department of Construction in the electoral division of Bowman which are currently under construction and those which have been completed since December 1975. No further projects are proposed for the Division in the financial year 1976-77. Minor works valued at less than $ 1 5,000 have not been included. 
I think that the honourable gentleman who asked that question does not really understand the complex nature of the building industry. It does not surprise me in view of the fact that he is a former Minister. The honourable gentleman was speaking about housing approvals for the month of March. My reply to him would be to say that he cannot judge the whole of the year's activities upon the activities for one month. As he has asked about the building industry, I should like to tell him what the Bureau of Statistics has to say about the building industry. In doing so, I acknowledge that there is a temporary slackening in the housing approval area. My colleague, the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development would be able to deal with that matter better than I could. If we look at the Bureau's figures for the number of commencements, the amount of work under construction and the work doneMr Charles Jones- The Government has- 
I can see the honourable member's lips moving but I cannot hear a word he is saying. What is more, I do not think that I am missing much. If we look at the most recent quarter for which figures are available- the December quarter- we see that all the figures are up, not down. They are the only figures that we can go by. 
My colleague the honourable member for Canberra asks: 'what about the Australian Capital Territory?'. The Australian Capital Territory figures do not show any growth. I do not think we could ever expect that they could show growth. What do honourable members want the Government to do? Do they want it to build houses in which no one will live? We want growth in this industry. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information sought by the honourable member is not readily available. Works programs for the various Commonwealth Government Departments and/or Authorities are not kept in Electorate Divisions and to obtain it in respect of former years would entail a detailed examination of the works programs for all Departments and /or Authorities. 
Having regard to the nature of the information requested, I consider that the considerable administrative effort, time and costs which would be involved in its extraction and collation, is not justified. 
However, in order to assist the honourable member, work on the approved program in the Electorate for commencement in 1976-77 and work completed since 1971 for the main client Department ( the former PMG Department ) is as follows. Minor works valued at less than $15,000 have not been included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not remember all the questions in detail, but the quick answers are yes, no, no and yes. Honourable members are inviting me to stretch out my answer. I shall accept that invitation. 
-No, but I have been waiting for it for five or ten minutes. It intrigues me that the honourable member for Oxley- I imagine he is the honourable member whom the honourable member for Latrobe has in mind as putting out this sort of a suggestion- was part of a government which increased interest rates from around 6 per cent to over 10 per cent. It increased inflation from 4 per cent to about 18 per cent and, in the building industry, to over 20 per cent for a period. It created record unemployment and introduced that iniquitous system of tax rebates known as the Hayden rebate system. How that honourable gentleman can come out now and suggest this crazy solution as the panacea for the problems facing the building and construction industry, I frankly do not know. The prosperity of the country and certainly of this industry relies very much on the prosperity of the private sector of the industry and, in spite of the remarks of the honourable gentleman that sector is certainly improving considerably. I think the honourable gentleman himself nodded and acknowledged that fact. 
The honourable member says that he did not do so. Approvals- I admit that these are not commencements- in the nonresidential section of the building and construction industry show a steady improvement- a strong growth factor. This started when the present Government gained office and has continued to the present. Even more significant is the fact that the private sector is now dominant visavis the government sector. I think that is a reasonable answer to our critics. Our policies are certainly beginning to work. The Government's goal is to defeat inflation and get the deficit down. With the reduction of the deficit there will be a reduction in interest rates and taxes. Interest rates and taxes will not be reduced by expanding the deficit, which would be the direct result of the implementation of the policies espoused by the honourable member for Oxley. 
I have been subject to some unfriendly remarks in the media in recent times. I acknowledge that the rate of growth in the home building industry is not being sustained at the rate of growth of last year. My remarks concern the nonresidential part of the building industry. My colleague the Minister for Housing, Environment and Community Development is well equipped to handle any inquiry on the housing industry. At the same time, I draw the attention of the House to the fact that figures released this month for home building approvals in April were up, and I regard that as a good sign. It is no good honourable members opposite or the industry continually trying to blame the Federal Government for any diminution in any section of the home building industry. State governments, unions and the industry itself all have a part to play. 
I think the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is anticipating what will be in the next Budget and I am not prepared to comment on that. If we look at the approvals figures- I did not want to bore the House with them yesterday and I hope not to bore the House with them today- and take the average for the 3 months January, February and March, the latest figures available, and we compare those figures with the figures for those months in 1975, which was, I remind the House, a year of Labor administration, we see that the private non-residential approvals figure for that quarter in 1975 was $5 lm out of a total of $ 163m. In the first year that we were in office this figure was increased to $75m out of a total of $ 130m. In the first 3 months of this year non-residential private approvals averaged $89m out of a total of $167m. I can assure the honourable gentleman that that is a very significant increase. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I should like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Dairy Industry Stabilization Levy Bill, the Dairy Produce Amendment BUI, the Dairy Industry Assistance BUI and the Dairy Industry Assistance Levy BUI, as they are associated measures. Separate questions Will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 5 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) The following is a list of Commonwealth contracts arranged by the Department of Construction in the Victorian municipalities of Broadmeadows, Coburg and Brunswick completed or currently under construction for the financial year 1976-77. Works which are not expected to be completed in the current financial year also are listed. Minor works valued at less than $ 1 5,000 have not been included. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work bo referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Construction of an Analytical Laboratory at Pymble, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the construction of a new laboratory complex to accommodate the scientific, administrative and support activities of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratory in New South Wales. The complex will consist of 4 elements: Chemical analysis and physical testing; bacteriological testing; administration; and site services and support activities. The tasks of the laboratory include testing of goods and materials for import, export and domestic use. 
The building will be constructed with reinforced concrete frames and brick infill walls covered with an applied textured coloured finish. The building will be designed to harmonise with the generally residential nature of the area. The complex will be airconditioned throughout and outfitted internally in materials suitable to the laboratory-type activities. The estimated cost of the proposal at 13 May 1977 prices is $6.8m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: 
Development of Royal Australian Air Force Base Edinburgh, South Australia. 
The development has been necessitated by the proposal to locate additional aircraft at the base and by the existing unsatisfactory living and working accommodation. The majority of the existing living and working accommodation is in old converted factory buildings and technical facilities are accommodated in temporary buildings. The development includes the provision of new buildings, modifications and additions to existing buildings and all associated engineering services to provide living and working accommodation for No. 92 Wing including No. 10 and 1 1 Squadrons and the No. 492 Maintenance Squadron, and the Aircraft Research and Development Unit recently moved from Laverton, Victoria, to Edinburgh. Other support facilities including physical fitness centre, running transport section and barracks tradesmen's workshop will service all RAAF personnel at the base. Provision of extensive aircraft pavements and taxiways together with associated airfield drainage and lighting is also proposed. 
A complete fire detection and protection system will be provided where necessary and an additional water reticulation service to supplement the existing service and ensure adequate supply in the event of fire is also planned. A central emergency power house will be provided to conform to the standards and requirements for power supplies on RAAF bases in the event of power failure. The estimated cost of the works at April 1977 prices is $ 17.4m. I table plans of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Development of Royal Australian Air Force Base Point Cook, Victoria. 
The proposal is for 2 elements of the overall development at the base. They are the construction of sleeping accommodation for 96 air men consisting of 6 two-storey brick buildings, replacing traditional institutionalised barracks accommodation with flat type accommodation; and the provision of facilities for the No. 1 Flying Training School comprising the headquarters building, flight line building and the maintenance squadron headquarters and workshop. The Committee recommends the construction of the work as referred to it. Upon the concurrence of the house in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: 
Construction of a new primary school at Katherine South. Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a primary school designed to accommodate 360 students. The proposal now submitted differs from that previously considered by the Committee in February, 1977 in that the capacity of the school has been reduced from 480 to 360 students with a proportional reduction in the size of the buildings, and the pre-school has been omitted. Katherine South Primary School is intended to be the first school built using the new system of construction developed by the Departments of Construction and Education during 1976. This system was designed to reduce design, documentation and construction costs and time. 
The school will comprise, each housed in a separate building, one 120 student learning area, one 240 student learning area, library, administration and multi-purpose area. The estimated cost of the revised proposal is $ 1.82m at April 1977 prices. The Committee, in recommending the construction of these works, concluded that the departments should monitor enrolments closely and document the project to allow deletion of the 120 student learning unit from the contract if enrolments do not increase as expected. The Departments of Construction and Education will comply with this recommendation in the further design of the school. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) The claims for compensation are at present under consideration in the Department of Construction prior to their submission to the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation. It is not considered appropriate to publish details of statements made to the Depanment by  Mr or Mrs McNamara  in this matter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer to Question No. 1003. 
I have seen those reports and I think I have also heard the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions using the information. Unfortunately, the figures do not apply to the building and construction industry. The statistics which are gathered by the Bureau of Statistics, or whatever source gathers them, do not include time lost through the guerilla type action which currently is being conducted in the building and construction industry by the Builders Labourers Federation in particular. Industrial action such as embargoes on deliveries of material to building sites, unauthorised smokoes bans on sections of building jobs, stoppages during concrete pours and the like is not taken into consideration when the numbers of man hours lost are assessed, and there is an enormous loss of work and employment as a direct result of such action. For example, around Australia there are 80 projects on which either little or no work at all is being done. In South Australia, which is the area that I know best, no work is being done on any major project and has not been done for three months as a direct result of the action of the Builders Labourers Federation. The total value of projects of some size held up in South Australia is over $40m, and the peak job capacity for those works- about six are involved- is over 1,600 men. The latest unemployment filgures- those for June- indicate that around 1,300 skilled and semi-skilled building workers are out of work in South Australia. If the Builders Labourers Federation would lift its bans and discontinue its guerilla action, there would be employment opportunities for very many of the men who currently are unemployed. 
There is no way in the world that anybody could possibly blame the Government or Government policies for the unemployment that exists in the construction industry. It is entirely the result of industrial action by building unions, and in particular by the Builders Labourers Federation. In fact, on one Commonwealth project in South Austalia worth over $ 1 m there has been a ban- I believe it was lifted yesterday- for three months. The cost of that ban to the taxpayers has been $40,000, on a job worth just over $ 1 m. The peak number of workers who could be employed on that project is 100. So the effect of such bans goes right down the line. There is ban on a very large private sector job worth $25m in Port Pirie. Port Pirie is relatively depressed. There is significant unemployment in the area. If this project were allowed to proceed peak employment opportunities there would be in excess of 800 jobs for skilled and semi-skilled building workers. The cost to the company over the three months the job has been embargoed is $90,000 and the cost per month as long as the embargo continued will be $10,000. That company is considering abandoning the project. I have prepared some tables which I would like to have incorporated  Hansard.  In the event of not having this agreement from the Opposition - 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the inquiry into public electricity supply in the Northern Territory. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of Glenbrook RAAF Base HQ Operational Command. 
The proposal is for the construction of combined equipment, barracks store complex and transport compound; unit headquarters and medical/dental centre; command headquarters, senior non-commissioned officers, airmen's and airwomen's accommodation, messing and recreation facilities; renovation of existing building for officers' mess and quarters; ancillary buildings; and civil engineering works including roads, car parks and external services. The estimated cost of the proposal at June 1977 prices was $8.3m. I table the plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of RAAF Base, Edinburgh, South Australia. 
The proposal is for the development of new buildings, modifications and additions to existing buildings and all associated engineering services to provide living and working accommodation for No. 92 Wing, including Nos 10, 1 1 and 492 (Maintenance) and the maritime analysis and training squadron, and the aircraft research and development unit recently moved from Laverton, Victoria, to Edinburgh. Support facilities include a physical fitness centre, running transport section and barracks tradesmen's workshop. Provision of extensive aircraft pavements and taxiways, a fire detection and protection system, additional water reticulation service and a central emergency power house is also proposed. The estimated cost of the proposed work when referred was $ 17.4m based on April 1977 rates. 
The Public Works Committee has generally recommended the construction of these works with the exception of proposed recreation and common room and living accommodation for 24 Women's Royal Australian Air Force personnel. In regard to these areas the Committee recommended that the living accomodation for the 24 Women's Royal Australian Air Force personnel be redesigned to provide a common entry/living room for each four-bedroom unit. The Committee also recommended that the policy for providing Women's Royal Australian Air Force recreation buildings separate from airmen's and airwomen's recreation centres be reviewed in the light of the new type of living accommodation which will be provided for the Women's Royal Australian Air Force in future. 
These recommendations are currently being examined in line with the new flat style accommodation recently recommended by the Committee for construction at Point Cook and Randwick and revised designs and estimates will be passed to the Committee for information. The items to be reviewed will form part of stage two of the development which is not scheduled for construction until 1978-79. This will not delay commencement of stage one of the proposed works. Upon the concurrence of the House with this motion detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of the military area at Randwick, New South Wales. 
The proposed works comprise: construction of living and working accommodation for the Army; joint services recreation facilities; and all associated engineering services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 13m based on February 1977 prices. The Public Works Committee in recommending the construction of these works concluded that most of the Army units included in the development are in temporary, inefficient and low standard accommodation which needs replacing. The Sydney Harbour lands agreement between the New South Wales Government and the Commonwealth has resulted in the need for the Army to relocate some units at Randwick. The existing Randwick military area is the logical site for the centralisation of accommodation and associated facilities. The proposed development will enable considerable economies to be achieved and, at the same time, provide a better standard of facility. 
The layout of the proposed buildings, roads and outdoor facilities is satisfactory and accords with the overall development of the site. The proposed buildings and associated works are suitable to meet the needs of the Army in the Sydney area. Upon the concurrence of the House to this motion detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Construction carried out three major projects in the Electoral Division of St George during 1976-77. These projects, which are currently nearing completion, are the telephone exchanges at Kingsgrove, Undercliffe and Kogarah. 
The expenditure on each of these projects during 1976-77 and their total contract values are as follows: 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an animal quarantine station, Wallgrove, New South Wales. 
The proposal is for the construction of a comprehensive animal quarantine station comprising the following main groupings of buildings: quarantine security area, administrative and public area, service buildings and three staff residences. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $4.6m. The Committee in recommending the construction of the proposal made the following recommendations: 
the Department of Health should reexamine the proposed horse grooms' accommodation with a view to providing a less costly solution. 
further consideration should be given to the siting of the manure pit and incinerator within the secure quarantine area. 
the internal roads should be planned to ensure segregation of vehicles servicing the manure pit and incinerator and the vehicles supplying the bulk feed store and bedding store. 
a review of existing bee importation arrangements should be undertaken together with an examination of the feasibility of establishing a bee quarantine facility. 
when assessing animal quarantine charges, in addition to the recovery of operational costs, consideration should be given to the recovery of some level of the capital costs of animal quarantine stations. 
The Government accepts these recommendations and they will be taken into consideration in the development of the project. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Construction for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The following is a list of Commonwealth Public works which are due to be commenced by the Department of Construction in the electoral division of Sydney during the financial year 1977-78. Minor works valued at less than $20,000 have not been included. 
I thank the honourable member for the question and assure him that I will be very pleased to table the survey which is supplementary to the one which was tabled in the Parliament two or three weeks ago. The survey lists the value of each project- in excess of 80 around the Commonwealth-and lists the number of peak jobs available on each project. It makes no assessment of the cost of industrial disputation. One of the reasons is that the private sector is really frightened to tell us what industrial disputation costs. I was speaking to a builder from Sydney just a few days ago and he said that he had an interrupted concrete pour which cost him $12,500. He asked me not to mention his name. In fact, he was a little concerned that I should even mention the State from which he came because builders are concerned about retaliation from unions such as the Australian Builders Labourers Federation. 
We have two examples which we have costed within my Department. They are Commonwealth jobs. In South Australia the value of the project was in excess of $lm and the loss to the taxpayer as a result of industrial disputationthis time by the Builders Labourers Federationwas in excess of $40,000. We have another example of this situation in Brisbane. I am not sure whether this occurred within the electorate of the honourable member for Bowman, but if not, it was quite close to it. He will know the project. I refer to the Woolloongabba Telephone Exchange. 
Apparently it is in the electorate of Griffith. In this case the contractor went into liquidation a couple of years ago and the Department of Construction took over the project management. The estimated cost of that project was $ 10m. We have found that the additional cost to the taxpayer as a direct result of industrial disputation by the Builders Labourers Federation alone is $2m, which gives the House and the people of Australia some idea of what the activities of this union and of some others like it are costing the country. 
There are various options open to the Government. We could seek deregistration of the union; we could interfere in individual disputes which are affecting our own projects; or we could take direct action similar to that taken by the Victorian Government and close down all Commonwealth projects. We hope that none of these actions will be necessary, but we do hope that someone in the Builders Labourers Federation - 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition continues to interject. I wonder why he does not exercise some of his influence on some of his friends in that union and get them to lay off the industry, let the members of the union go back to work and give the building industry an opportunity to get back on its feet. I hope it will not be necessary to take any of the actions I mentioned but they are the options available to us. I table the report,  Mr Speaker. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) A submission has been made to the Committee on Location of Australian Government Employment proposing the progressive move of the major portion of Central Office from Melbourne to Canberra, with all moves completed no later than 1982. The Committee in due course will report to the Government who will make the final decision on whether or not the move will take place. 
Staff and associations have been advised of the proposal. 
Removal expenses and transfer expenses and allowances have been estimated at $ 1 . 6m. 
The exact location cannot be finalised until the decision is taken and the transfer stages and timing are determined. However, a Central Office presence of 30 positions ex-Melbourne is currently being established in John Curtin House, Barton. 
Ferrari Boxer Motor Car: Newspaper Report of Speed on Canberra Roads (Question No. 1539) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction in the electoral division of Sydney which were commenced in the financial year 1976-77. Minor works valued at less than $20,000 have not been included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Design work is well advanced, site investigations complete, a prototype animal room constructed and other prototypes of special equipment built to evaluate design solutions. 
Expenditure totalling $580,000 has been incurred on construction and testing of prototypes. $15,000 has been allocated for 1977-78 to complete design evaluation. 
It is estimated that construction and commissioning of the laboratory would take eight years from the date of commencement of site works. 
Completion of design work and testing of prototypes. 
Research Trusts (Question No. 14SS) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian labour and materials will be used to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with utilisation of local resources (Cocos (Keeling) Islands). 
Not applicable see ( 1 ) above. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Re-development of airways facilities, Adelaide Airport, South Australia. 
The proposal is for the construction of buildings to house improved operating facilities at Adelaide Airport to overcome present deficiencies in aviation safety services and to enable safety to be maintained with traffic growth. The proposal comprises: An operations building to accommodate area approach control, flight service centre, the necessary control equipment and training facilities; a services building containing a transformer for the provision of primary power, essential power generation and air conditioning plant; an air traffic control tower accommodating an elevated control cabin, support control equipment and essential power and air conditioning plant; and associated site works, car parks, roads and engineering services, sewerage and drainage and security fencing to the operations building and services building area. 
All buildings will be steel framed and clad externally with asbestos cement sheeting. With the exception of the services building which will be naturally ventilated, they will have thermally insulated external walls and ceilings and be air conditioned. Operations areas will be sound attenuated against aircraft noise. All buildings will have fire detection systems installed and fire extinguishers will be provided. The estimated cost of the proposal at August 1977 prices is $2.25m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numbers and classifications of officers employed at the Central Office of the Department of Construction for the years 1 969 to 1 977 are set out in the following table. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
2 ) Not applicable see ( 1 ) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The contractor is required to pay all persons employed under the contract at rates not less than those fixed by any relevant award, statute, ordinance, determination, industrial agreement, etc. in force in the State or Territory where the work under contract is performed. 
I do not regard this situation as an anomaly. 
-I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an analytical laboratory at Pymble, N.S.W. 
The proposal is for the construction of a laboratory complex to accommodate the Commonwealth Government Analytical Laboratory in New South Wales including facilities for chemical analysis and physical testing, bacteriological testing, administration, support activities and site services. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $6.82m at May 1977 prices. 
The Committee in recommending the contruction of the proposal made the following recommendations: 
Additional security arrangements estimated to cost $20,000 should be provided. 
An examination should be made as to whether there be charges between departments for services undertaken by analytical laboratories. 
The Government accepts the recommendation that additional security arrangements be provided and consideration will be given to this aspect in the development of the project. The question of whether there should be charges between departments for services undertaken by the analytical laboratories is under consideration. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are nine departmental libraries and are located at the Central Office at Hawthorn, Victoria, Experimental Building Station at North Ryde, New South Wales, and in each Regional Office in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Canberra and Darwin. 
The main purpose of each library is to serve the needs of the Department s operations in the planning, execution and maintenance of Commonwealth Government Works. The libraries are essentially technical, and are a continuous reference centre for the normal day to day activities of the Department. 
The information sought in this pan of the honourable member's question is not readily available. Procedures for recording acquisitions in the various libraries are not conducive to the ready collection and assembly of the information requested. I consider that the considerable administrative effort, time and cost involved in extracting the information would not be justified. However, a total of $13 1,000 has been allocated for all Departmental libraries for the financial year 1977-78 covering (a) $75,000 for purchases of books and Standards Association of Australia documents and (b) $56,000 for periodicals, magazines, subscriptions, etc. 
The approximate annual salary costs for each library is Hawthorn $84,000, North Ryde $22,000, Sydney $20,000, Melbourne $19,000, Brisbane $17,000, Adelaide $9,000, Penh $ 1 6,000, Canberra $ 1 6,000 and Darwin $ 1 6,000. 
Current staffing is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commencement of the Animal Quarantine Station is scheduled for March 1978, subject to agreement having been reached regarding the site. It is estimated that the Quarantine Station will take approximately 2V4 years to complete from the date of commencement. 
No. Negotiations to acquire the site have commenced. 
$120,000 has been provided in the 1977-78 Works Program and it is expected that this amount will be spent subject to site availability. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australian workmen will be engaged in the construction of the offshore animal quarantine station to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with utilisation of local Cocos (Keeling) Islands labour. 
Not applicable, see ( 1 ) above. 
I certainly acknowledge the work of the honourable member for Franklin, and the other members from Tasmania in this House on behalf of their constituents. I saw the matter to which the honourable member has referred I think the weekend before last. One of the leading contractors in Tasmania made certain statements attacking the Federal and State governments and accusing both of them of withholding work from Tasmania. The contractor subsequently retracted his statement in respect of the State Government as a result of a Press conference called by the Minister for Housing and Construction in Tasmania. The Minister then took up the same sort of argument. I happen to have a copy of a Press report of last week where the Minister in Tasmania- an angered Minister according to the Press report- stated: . . . the Federal cutback in funds for projects this year means that in real terms we will have the leanest year for a decade. 
That simply not true. Regrettably that statement, I believe, was repeated today by the Premierelect of Tasmania,  Mr Lowe.  The true position is that Commonwealth commencements this year in Tasmania- I make the point that Commonwealth work in Tasmania is not the overwhelming majority of public works- will amount to more than $8m. Last year Commonwealth work amounted to $2.1m or $2.2m. So there has been a very substantial increase in Commonwealth work alone. Those figures do not include the work done on the Reserve Bank or the Antarctic Division project, which will be going forward, I think, fairly soon. The Minister made no reference to the additional amount of untied grants which will be going to Tasmania. They have been increased by 1 5 per cent from last year to$250m. 
-The State Government in Tasmania can spend that money wherever it likes. I hope it will spend some in the building and construction industry. Right around Australia all State Governments have received increased untied grants totalling more than $4,000m. We should look to the States to increase this activity. Finally, the State Minister talked about this year being a lean year. One should look at the approval rates for building and construction for this year, because commencements and work follow approvals. In Tasmania the total number of building approvals is up by 2 1 per cent; dwellings are up by 4 per cent; more importantly, nonresidential buildings are up by 57 per cent when compared with the figure for last year. So it is absurd, stupid and untrue for any Tasmanian Minister to make those sorts of statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has adopted the recommendation and is working with the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly towards the establishment of a Northern Territory Electricity Commission by 1 July 1978. 
-I thank the honourable gentleman for his question. Yes, I have read that report. I hope that situation occurs and that if it does the Treasurer will get the credit for it. Some figures were released just a few days ago-on Tuesday to be exact- in respect of the increase in the cost of building materials which I think are relevant. Those figures show that for the 12 months to September the rate of increase in building materials in the non-residential section of the building industry was less than 10 per cent; in fact it was 9.6 percent. That should mean that by the end of the financial year we can get down to a rate of between 7 per cent and 8 per cent. That is a tremendous achievement, especially when we recall that when Labor was in office the rate hit 20 per cent. In fact during 1974-75 it was 22.9 per cent. 
There is another interesting indicator in the number of building approvals in the nonresidential sector. It shows that the seasonally adjusted figures for the 8 months to August are up by 20.9 per cent. Of course it is when building approvals are translated into building commencements that the construction industry benefits. These figures are much higher than they were when Labor was in government. I think it is reasonable to say that the Government's economic policies are now really starting to work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of proposed new complex for the Antarctic Division Headquarters and for the Hoban Regional Laboratory of the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, Kingston, Tasmania. 
The proposal provides for a complex of seven separate but linked low rise buildings which will provide offices, display and conference areas, laboratories, workshops and stores for the Antarctic Division which is currently located in Melbourne. An additional building will accommodate Tasmanian regional laboratory and offices of the Commonwealth Government Analytical Laboratories. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $7.3m at March 1977 prices. In recommending the construction of the works the Committee stated: 
The Committee believes that the glaciology section should not be transferred to Kingston. 
The provision of laboratory facilities for the Antarctic Division should be re-examined when a firm decision is made by the Government as to the scientific tasks to be undertaken by the Antarctic Division at Kingston. 
In regard to the glaciology section, the Government recognises the merit of the view expressed by the Committee and this will be taken into consideration when finalising arrangements for the transfer of the Antarctic Division. The provision of laboratory facilities for the Antarctic Division will be re-examined in the light of a Government White Paper relating to the Antarctic policy and programs which is now being prepared. The Committee also concluded that: 
There should be greater co-ordination between the Antarctic Division and the universities in Antarctic research. 
The Committee urges the Government to agree to the changes in the Antarctic Division's scientific program proposed by the Department of Science. 
The Committee is convinced that any disruption of the relationship between the glaciology section and the meteorology department of the University of Melbourne would not be in the best interests of science. 
The Government notes the Committee's conclusions. 
-in reply-The Government and I are very appreciative of the work of the Joint Committee on Public Works and especially its work on this reference. I have read the transcript. This project was initiated and approved under the previous Labor Administration and confirmed under our Administration. It was really like a can of worms. It was a difficult reference. The Public Works Committee did a good job. In response to the final remarks of the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  let me say that the Committee recommended the construction of the works subject to certain reservations. I will convey his remarks, which I know represent the views of the Committee, to the client department. I make the point that the Department of Construction is not the client department. The client department is the Department of Science. It is my intention to discuss this matter further with the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  in another place who is responsible for this project. I am quite sure that he would also have studied the transcript. I recommend to the House that the transcript should be studied. It is freely available to anybody who wishes to read it. 
The Government wishes to proceed with the project. We take the view that we have the tacit approval of the Public Works Committee. After all there will be other occasions to criticise, to amend or to express views on what the Government finally decides. I do not wish to delay the proceedings of the House. I refer once again to that part of the reference which relates to the glaciology section. I repeat what is already in  Hansard.  The Government recognises the merit of the view which was expressed by the Committee and which was expressed tonight by the Vice-Chairman of the Committee, the honourable member for Burke. This view will be taken into consideration when finalising arrangements for the construction of the Antarctic Division headquarters. As the Vice-Chairman said, this is a terribly complicated reference. It is not one where it can be said that we should do this or do that. There are so many areas where perhaps we should not do anything at all. I know that the Vice-Chairman agrees with that because he is smiling and nodding. If we follow the expression the 'pragmatic compromise solution' which has been recommended by the Public Works Committee we will have a development which is not wasted and which will be of immense value to the Australian electorate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The current cost of construction of multi-storey, airconditioned and open planned office space in Melbourne is of the order of $480 per square metre or gross floor area. 
Costs in Sydney and Brisbane do not differ significantly from this figure and costs at each location would be in-, fluenced by features of the site or special design requirements. 
Gross floor area is defined as the sum of fully enclosed covered areas and unenclosed covered areas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (3) The numbers of new apprentices engaged by the Department of Construction in each of the years from 1972 to 1977, the ratios of the total numbers of apprentices in training to tradesmen and the numbers of tradesmen employed in each of the years from 1972 to 1977 are set out below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. The design team has not been disbanded. 
) ( a) The team still includes all key members of the original design group. The composition of support staff varies depending on the stage of the design process. 
Yes. The numerical strength of the team is currently lower than peak strengths reached during 1 976-77. 
No. Key members of the team comprise Department of Construction and CSIRO staff. Support staff includes consultants. 
Yes. 
Twenty-six (26) as at 13 October 1977. This number is not static and is adjusted as necessary to meet the design program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure by the Central Office of the Department of Construction in respect of (a) salaries and allowances of directly employed employees and (b) consultants, in the years 1 969 to 1 977 are set out below together with the percentage of the combined amount relating to each category. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Construction is the design and construction authority for all Commonwealth Government Departments. The following is a list of expenditure in the Electoral Divisions of Leichhardt, Herbert, Kennedy and Dawson on capital works through the Department of Construction on behalf of all Departments, the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions and the Australian Institute of Marine Science (A.I.M.S.). Individual minor works valued at less than $ 1 5,000 each have not been included. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second rime. 
This Bill amends both the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1948 and the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973. First it introduces significant improvements to the reversionary benefits arrangements of the defence forces retirement benefits and defence force retirement and death benefits schemesthose benefits which are extended to the family of a contributing or retired member upon his or her death. Second, it incorporates an amendment to the commonly known 'no detriment' provisions of section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act. The effect is to enhance these provisions in respect of certain late entrant officers who elected to limit their contributions to the old DFRB scheme, with a consequential reduction in benefit expectation, but who, because of the conversion arrangements from the old to the new scheme, were placed in a disproportionately worse position visavis others transferred to the new scheme. 
The Bill also seeks to rectify a series of technical deficiencies and anomalies in the legislation which have come to light with the benefit of experience in its operation. Foremost amongst the liberalised reversionary benefits provisions are: 
the non-cessation in the future of spouses' pensions on remarriage; 
spouses whose pensions had previously been cancelled on their remarriage may be granted pensions at such rate as the DFRDB authority determines where it is satisfied that the spouse is in necessitous circumstances or that the grant of a pension is otherwise warranted; 
in the case of spouses of deceased DFRB pensioners, the grant of discretion to the DFRDB authority to award a pension where the marriage took place after the member's retirement- a benefit largely analogous to that currently available under the DFRDB scheme; and 
access to pension entitlement, subject to the prescribed conditions, for spouses of deceased DFRB and DFRDB pensioners where the marriage was contracted after the pensioner attained 60 years of age. 
These provisions devolve from changes made to reversionary benefits in the Public Service superannuation scheme. Thus, the defence and public service prescriptions will be very largely on the same footing, so maintaining the longestablished principle of common treatment amongst the general body of former employees of the Crown. 
Turning now to the amendment to section 25 of the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Act, I should first explain that the Act already contains 'no detriment' provisions to protect certain late entrant officers transferred to the new scheme against any possible diminution of their pension entitlements for which they were contributing at the time of transfer. This Bill expands those provisions for that group of officers to place those who limited their contributions under the former scheme in a comparable position to those who did not. The reason for this provision is that amongst the conversion arrangements from the old to the new scheme all transferees had their contributions to the former scheme equalised on the basis of 5.5 per cent of the aggregate pay received in the past from which they made their contributions. So it is therefore clearly equitable that the 'no detriment' provisions should apply uniformly to all. The amendment is to be effective from the date of commencement of the present scheme- 1 October 1972. 
In conclusion I turn to the amendments designed to overcome anomalies and technical defects in the DFRDB legislation. Let me first make it quite clear that a cardinal principle of the transfer of all serving members from the DFRB to the DFRDB scheme was that the new range of benefits was not to be additional to those provided in respect of service under the former scheme but in substitution of those benefits. There was to be no double counting. 
So, to avoid dual payments, any benefits paid before 1 October 1972 in respect of service for which benefits also become payable after that date were to be recovered or used as an offset against pension and associated benefits payable under the DFRDB scheme. The pre-October 1972 benefits to which I refer are gratuity; deferred pay; certain pension payments for periods of service which were able to be paid under the old scheme to some classes of members whilst serving but which, on transfer to the new scheme, they could convert to full DFRDB pension entitlement for those same periods; and DFRB commutation payments where members again commute in respect of their DFRDB pensions derived from both initial DFRB and subsequent DFRDB service. 
Certain provisions of the Act dealing with these matters have been found to be defective in that they do not adequately reflect the policy intention. The amendments concerned, which are to rectify these deficiencies, will therefore apply from the date of commencement of the DFRDB scheme. In providing for retrospectivity in this way, no pensioner will be required to pay any moneys to the Commonwealth or suffer a reduction in his existing pension benefits. It merely provides beyond doubt statutory sanction for what has been done to date in conformity with accepted policy. 
The remaining machinery amendments are of a minor character and serve to consolidate some matters relating to the administration of the DRFDB scheme. May I say that we have welcomed the constructive initiatives of former member representative organisations. They have made a very practical and realistic contribution. I commend the Bill. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keith  Johnson) adjourned. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Development of Glenbrook Royal Australian Air Force Base Headquarters Operational Command. 
The development proposed will include working accommodation for RAAF operational command, permanent living accommodation for senior non-commissioned officers, airmen and airwomen currently accommodated at Penrith, renovation of existing hotel building for officers mess and quarters and some working accommodation, construction of new police dog training section and isolation compound. The Committee in reporting favourably on the proposal made three recommendations in relation to recreational facilities. These are: 
Recommendation No. 3. The Committee recommends that the RAAF carries out a comprehensive survey throughout the Service and in consultation with Service welfare officers to establish what recreational facilities are suitable to a modem integrated defence force. 
Recommendation No. 4. The Committee recommends that a comprehensive survey of the views of prospective users of senior NCO messes and other ranks' canteens be carried out in order to determine what minimum standards are required for airwomen's recreation faculties. 
Recommendation No. 7. The Committee recommends the construction of the work in this reference with the exception of the separate airwomen 's recreation building. 
In regard to these three recommendations, the Department of Defence will undertake further investigations into the provision of recreational faculties on the lines recommended by the Committee and will be in contact with the Committee again to resolve these matters. The further recommendations of the Committee include: 
Recommendation No. 5. The Committee recommends the provision of two new tennis courts and two squash courts at an estimated additional cost to the development of $100,000. 
The Government accepts this recommendation, and the proposed facilities will be incorporated in the development. Another recommendation is: 
Recommendation No. 8. The Committee recommends that the departments concerned re-examine the possibility of providing modern automatic fire detection to sleeping accommodation, particularly the refurbished hotel building. 
This matter will be re-examined as recommended by the Committee. The third recommendation is: 
Recommendation No. 9. The Committee recommends that carpet be provided to office areas in the combined equipment/barrack store complex and the unit headquarters/medical/dental centre in heu of vinyl tiles. 
The provision of carpet to these areas may not be entirely appropriate, but in view of the time factor, I am not able to give a final opinion on this question. The recommendation will be further examined, and the Committee advised of the outcome. 
The total estimated cost of the proposal including the cost of the tennis and squash courts recommended by the Committee is $8.4m at June 1977 prices. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a beef cattle research laboratory at Rockhampton, Queensland. 
The proposal is for the construction of a comprehensive beef cattle research laboratory complex comprising the following main groupings of buildings: The laboratory, administration and central plant buildings, an animal building, a food preparation building, a caretaker's residence and a flammable store. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $5.44m at June 1977 prices. The Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and, upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Let me remind. the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that these references go back to 1973 and 1974 when the Australian Labor Party was in government and when inflation headed off in such a dramatic way. The honourable member for Burke will remember what the deficit was, and we inherited it. 
It was just double the deficit we have now. We had to look at everything that would increase the deficit, and cut our cloth accordingly. No one doubts the need for these things. It is a question of what we can afford. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, because of the urgent nature of the work, it is expedient that the construction of approximately 163 dwellings in the Rockingham area, Western Australia, be carried out without having been referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. 
The proposal is for the construction of approximately 165 dwellings, over a period of about two years, in the Rockingham area, Western Australia, at an estimated cost of $4.2m, at March 1977 rates. The housing is required for married naval personnel serving at the naval support facility, HMAS  Stirling  or on ships having HMAS  Stirling  as their home port. 
Construction is proposed utilising 'design and construct' contracts from commercial builders for batches of eight to 20 dwellings over the period November 1977 to July 1978 as land becomes available. The need for the housing is urgent to ensure sufficient accommodation being available by mid- 1978. The proposal has been discussed with the Public Works Committee which has agreed that it would not be appropriate for examination and report as it involves repetitive construction of houses to a series of designs submitted by contractors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (4) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's reply to Senate Question No. 1116. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The amounts expended on fares and travelling allowances in 1976-77 are set out below. For comparison, I have incorporated figures for the two full financial years of the previous Government i.e., 1973-74 and 1974-75. 
Overseas travel, 1973-74- $53,329 Overseas travel, 1974-75-897,510 Overseas travel, 1976-77- $59,273 
Domestic travel, 1973-74-$l,284,317 Domestic travel, 1974-75-$2,154,066 Domestic travel, 1976-77- $1,669,564 
The percentages of the Department's expenditure on fares and travelling allowance were: 
Overseas travel, 1973-74- 4 per cent Overseas travel, 1974-75- 4 per cent Overseas travel, 1976-77-3 per cent 
Domestic travel, 1973-74-96 per cent Domestic travel, 1974-75- 96 percent Domestic travel, 1976-77-97 percent 
The information shown for the years 1973-74 and 1974-75 includes a component for the housing sector of the then Department of Housing and Construction. 
Department of Productivity: Expenditure on Travel (Question No. 1658) 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The basic purpose of the Control of Naval Waters Act is to regulate the movement of vessels and other activities in the vicinity of naval establishments and naval moorings so that naval operations and activities are not hindered or endangered. Over the years, various difficulties in the operation of the existing Act have come to light making necessary a general revision and clarification of the existing provisions of the Act. 
While the primary purpose of the Act remains the control of vessels in naval waters, there is a need to control also the activities of persons. An example is the need to control the activities of skindivers, both to protect naval property and to protect individuals from any danger associated with naval activities such as sound waves from underwater equipment. At present, there is doubt whether regulations could be made under the Act with respect to the activities of persons, as distinct from vessels, within naval waters or on the foreshore of naval waters. The proposed amendments will remove this doubt. The Act will also be amended to ensure that the activities of aircraft over naval waters and vehicles on the foreshore of naval waters can be regulated. 
There are two serious deficiencies in the existing Act. Firstly, the definition of 'naval waters' does not extend to areas of open sea and there is accordingly no capacity to exercise control under the Act in respect of, for example, activities in waters off the seaward side of Garden Island, Western Australia, where the Naval Support Facility is nearing completion. Secondly, there is doubt whether the Act applies in relation to installations which, while used for defence or naval purposes, are not Commonwealth-owned property, such as piers leased from harbour authorities. 
The Bill rectifies these deficiencies and provides that the Governor-General may declare as naval waters, waters of the sea, including waters within the ebb and flow of the tide, that are within two nautical miles of defence land or five nautical miles of a defence installation. 'Defence land' is defined as meaning land used by the Commonwealth for defence purposes. A 'defence installation' is defined as including a naval establishment or any fixed structure, apparatus or equipment used by the Commonwealth for purposes related to the naval defence of the Commonwealth. 
The Bill applies the operation of the Act to Territories but specifically excludes the Australian Antarctic Territory. Under the Antarctic Treaty, the Antarctic is to be used for peaceful purposes only and, although the use of military personnel or equipment for peaceful purposes is permitted, the extension of this Act to the Antarctic could produce misunderstanding having regard to Australia 's Treaty obligations. 
The existing Act vests various powers in the Senior Naval Officer' which is defined as including 'the senior naval officer doing duty at any naval waters'. This definition has produced considerable uncertainty and it is proposed to provide instead for the appointment of a superintendent in respect of each area of defined naval waters. 
The Bill covers various other matters which will enable naval waters to be more effectively administered. For example, it will be an offence for a master of a vessel to fail to comply with the lawful directions of a superintendent relating to the movement of the vessel within naval waters. The Bill also clarifies the definition of 'vessel' to ensure that it covers such modern developments as hovercraft and oil rigs. 
In general this Bill is designed to improve in various ways a rather outdated Act while at the same time ensuring greater protection of naval waters and for people who might be inclined to engage in unregulated activities in those waters. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
I want to thank both honourable members who took part in this debate and I want to comment briefly on the matters that have been raised. First of all, in respect of the matter raised by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  I would like to have the opportunity to examine in detail what he said when I can read it in  Hansard.  My understanding of his comments is that he is really dealing with the mooring of ships off-shore. This Bill seeks to give the government of the day control over the waters of the seas adjacent to naval installations and, without reflecting on the honourable member, I do not think that there is really any link between what the Bill seeks to do and what the honourable member for the Northern Territory thought it might do. Perhaps we can discuss that a little later. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised some matters on which I want to comment briefly. It is true that this legislation was passed in 1918 and to that extent I suppose it could be just about due to be updated. I suspect that the legislation was born before most of us in this place were born. I have made some notes on the honourable member's comments. First of all the honourable member- I think I quote him fairly accurately- referred to the need to protect in a democratic way the rights of people carrying out functions, presumably in these waters. I take it from that that he is referring to people demonstrating against warships and that type of activity. 
That is quite right. In that context the honourable gentleman mentioned Sydney Harbour. I think he said that perhaps Sydney Harbour could be fully declared. The position is that Sydney Harbour is now fully declared. This legislation will exclude more waters in Sydney Harbour from the proclamation. The Bill gives the Royal Australian Navy power- I think rightly so- to protect itself against the sorts of antics that we saw a year or so ago just after the fire at the Nowra naval base. Honourable members may remember that a television crew seeking, I think we can say, to cause trouble and to obtain some sort of story for their news program donned underwater kit and attempted to place some rope around the propeller of a submarine in Sydney Harbour. They were detected before they were able to do that. In my view and in the view of the Government, we should legitimately seek to prevent that sort of activity. Not only did they endanger their own lives but also they put the lives of the crew of the submarine in possible danger. One of the purposes of the Bill is to prevent that sort of thing. 
I am informed that there are approximately 23 areas currently proclaimed and many of them are unnecessary. That will be taken care of. The honourable member for Corio mentioned what he described as temporary proclamations. I cannot think of any circumstance, although some may exist, in which that is likely to be necessary. The mechanics would be that a proclamation would be made that would have to be revoked. Frankly, I cannot think of any circumstance in which that would apply. The honourable member mentioned the specification of foreign vessels. It is desirable and necessary that this be changed. As I think he probably realises, at the moment the Bill mentions only British vessels. This amendment will seek to include the naval vessels of all friendly nations. I do not think that there is very much else that requires comment. The honourable member for Corio mentioned the need to inform the public. Of course, the Government is very conscious of this. 
As he says, that was the main thrust of his comments. The best example that I can give him occurred a year or two ago when we were preparing to open up Cockburn Sound- the new facility at Garden Island in Western Australia. On that occasion a series of Press releases was given to the local media and they co-operated very well. Maps were made available and they were published. On that occasion I think that everybody in Western Australia who was interested knew about it, and that would be the Government's intention in these circumstances in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for Investigation and Report: Re-development of airways facilities, Adelaide Airport, S.A. 
The proposal is for the construction of buildings to house improved operating facilities at Adelaide airport to overcome present deficiencies in aviation safety services and to enable safety to be maintained with traffic growth. The proposal comprises: An operations building to accommodate area approach control, flight service centre, the necessary control equipment and training facilities; a services building containing a transformer for the provision of primary power, essential power generation and air conditioning plant; an air traffic control tower accommodating an elevated control cabin, support control equipment and essential power and air conditioning plant; and associated site works, car parks, roads and engineering services, sewerage and drainage and security fencing to the operations building and services building area. 
All buildings will be steel framed and clad externally with asbestos cement sheeting. With the exception of the services building which will be naturally ventilated, they will have thermally insulated external walls and ceilings and be air conditioned. Operation areas will be sound attenuated against aircraft noise. All buildings will have fire detection systems installed and fire extinguishers will be provided. The estimated cost of the proposal at March 1978 prices is $2. 35m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
The honourable member for Denison is a persistent advocate for the interests of his electorate and for the whole of Tasmania. Documentation for the project is very advanced. Already commissions have been let to private consultants to the value of around half a million dollars and they, the honourable member will be pleased to know, I am sure, are Hobart based. We expect to be letting contracts in the middle of the year and we expect there will be occupancy of the building in the first part of 1980. If I may have your indulgence  Mr Speaker,  I would like to say that the amount of untied grants going to 
Tasmania this year has increased from S 1 86m to more than $200m. The exact increase is $28m. Contrary to what the Premier of Tasmania is saying at the moment, there is significant Commonwealth interest and investment in Tasmania. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of the proposed Defence Force Academy in the Australian Capital Territory. 
The Academy will comprise: Accommodation, including messing and staff facilities for military and civilian staff and cadets; academic facilities to cater for the faculties of arts, science and engineering; central administration and military education facilities; a stores complex and a marine facility for training and recreational purposes; indoor physical fitness centre, and other sporting facilities; and site works and engineering services. 
The military accommodation and mess buildings are to be constructed to the Defence Services scales and standards. Academic buildings are to be constructed in accordance with space and cost restraints established by the Universities Commissionnow the Tertiary Education Commissionand will be provided in accordance with accepted university standards. The buildings will generally be two or three stories in height and roofed with coloured metal decking. They will be reinforced concrete structures with precast concrete panel or concrete masonary walls, except for the indoor sports centre, which will be steel framed and the cadets accommodation which will be load bearing masonary construction. The administration building, the main lecture theatres, the computer centre and the library will be air-conditioned along with limited other special purpose areas. Other buildings will be appropriately heated and ventilated. 
The estimated cost of the proposal at February 1977 prices was $49m. On the basis of the current materials and labour indices applicable to the Australian Capital Territory the estimate is now $52.8m at February 1978 prices. I table plans of the proposed work. 
in reply- In the first place I will reinforce what the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  has just said. Nothing could be more democratic than having this matter referred to a parliamentary committee for examination. That is all that we are doing today. I would like to see many other projects which are funded from the Commonwealth Budget referred to a parliamentary committee. I would like to think that the honourable gentlemam would support me in that view. But that is another matter. The fact is that this project is being referred to a committee of the Parliament for public scrutiny. I do not think anybody could have any possible criticism of that process. 
The honourable gentleman mentioned a number of things. He said that he thought that there could be some problems and delays as a result of staff ceilings. I assure the honourable member that staff ceilings are difficult to live with but they will not make any difference to this project. We have been working on the project now for a couple of years. I forget the exact period. An initial interim planning committee was set up which involved people from all walks of life, such as university people and people from my Department and from the Department of Defence, who were interested in this area. That committee, to my knowledge, has been planning for this academy for at least two years. Public statements have been made. A public statement was made when it was announced that the Government had decided to build the Australian Defence Force Academy. I do not think that the criticism levelled at us by the honourable member that not enough material was available was valid. I will certainly have a look at that aspect. There may by some substance in the suggestion that we could have more information available more readily and earlier. That could be possible. On this occasion, however, as on many occasions, that is not possible. The time factor involved is very tight. 
If the Public Works Committee, after examination, supports the building of the project, we hope that the Parliament decides during this sitting to proceed with the work. Here again, I do not think the honourable gentleman could be critical. Nothing could be more democratic than this Parliament's deciding whether the work goes ahead. If the Public Works Committee recommended against the project the chances are that it would not proceed. We think there is a fair chance that the Committee will recommend in favour of it. It is highly desirable that the project be approved during this sitting of the Parliament. We want to call tenders before winter. Earth works are obviously the first job to be done. I accept that it may be possible for more information to be given in advance of matters being referred to the Committee but I reject the criticism in this case. This is one project which should not have drawn any criticism. It has been subject to public scrutiny by all of us for several years. I am not sure of the date when an announcement was made but I think it was last September or October. There was adequate Press coverage. I thank the honourable gentleman for his suggestion and will certainly have a look at it. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) Eight officers travelled from their home base to another location: 
Five officers travelled  from  Sydney/Bowral, and return. one officer had two return air trips Sydney /Canberra. one officer one return air trip Sydney /Canberra. one officer two return road trips Sydney/Canberra. (b)Nil. 
$273.00. 
$38.00. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following is a list of Commonwealth public works arranged by the Department of Construction which have been commenced or approved for commencement this financial year in the electoral division of Werriwa. Minor works valued at less than $ 1 5,000 have not been included. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) $ 1 7,442, (b) $33,80 1, (c) $78,42 1, (d ) $80,2 1 7. 
The expenditures relate to advertising of staff vacancies and for tenders and quotations. No specific advertising campaigns were undertaken during any of the four periods mentioned. 
Funds for advertising expenditures were and are allocated under Division 220/2/07 Advertising- Tenders and Staff Vacancies of Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ). 
No advertising agencies or consultants were used. Advertising is arranged through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
and (6) Not applicable-see (4) above. 
Advertising expenditures in 1977-78 are estimated to reach $ 1 14,000 relating totally to staff vacancies and tenders and quotations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As from 25 June 1977 Commonwealth Hostels Ltd took over all Canteen Services operated by the Department and a number of tea to desk services provided by the Department. 
No departmental staff are currently employed on teamaking and distribution at the Central Office of the Department. 
At other offices, the Department employs 5 full-time officers and 7 part-time officers on tea services. 
In 1976-77 the salaries paid by the Department totalled $176,000 for those tea services which the Department then managed. The other operational expenditures are borne by patrons in accordance with the charging policy prescribed by the Department of Finance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Payments in 1976-77 as shown in the accounting records of the Department of Construction were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
i ) My attention has been drawn to comments at pages 155 and 156 of the publication Report of the Indpendent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation August 1977. It is a matter for regret that the Report includes such ill-researched, uninformed and incorrect statements and criticisms- see (2) and (3 ) below. 
The Depanment of Construction has designed and constructed thirty-five (35) significant buildings for the CSIRO over the past ten years including extensions to existing facilities. Materials used in these projects have been selected to meet functional needs, be compatible with surroundings, recognise special criteria applicable and comply with CSIRO briefs. 
A review of these 35 projects shows: 
a ) None have copper roofs. 
Five have copper downpipes (Fish Biology LaboratoryNew South Wales, Soils Laboratory- Australian Capital Territory, Urban Studies and Stored Products Building- Victoria, Fluid Mechanics Laboratory- Victoria) and one has a copper gutter and downpipes (Geochemicals LaboratoryVictoria). 
Two incorporate sections serviced by Pyrex wastes (Minerals Research Laboratories Building 12- New South Wales, and the Agronomy Building- Australian Capital Territory). 
Four incorporate precast wall panels (Library- Australian Capital Territory, Building Research LaboratoryVictoria, Mineralogy and Land Resources Laboratories- Western Australia, InspectoryQueensland) 
In each instance there was a special reason for selection of the materials used. 
Copper downpipes were used at the Fish Biology Laboratory to minimise salt water corrosion. They were also used encased in columns or recessed into brickwork thus minimising future maintenance which would be difficult or costly. In two instances they were used to match adjacent older buildings. Comparative extra costs compared with galvanised fittings were: Fish Biology Laboratory- $1,600, Soils Laboratory-$130, Urban Studies Building- $1,200, Stored Products Buildings- $2,700, Fluid Mechanics Laboratory $1,400 and Geomechanics Laboratory- $3,800. 
Pyrex wastes are used where it is necessary to handle corrosive materials which cannot be handled satisfactorily by other materials including PVC. Comparative additional costs compared with other materials which would have been unsuitable were: Minerals Research Laboratories, Building 12 which was constructed before PVC wastes were provisionally approved by the responsbile Authority- $8,000, Agronomy Building-$ 1 ,000. 
Precast concrete panels were necessary for the Inspectory building as brickwork would not meet security requirements. Precast wall panels were used elsewhere to match existing buildings or harmonise with surroundings. In some circumstances precast concrete can provide cost and time advantages compared with brickwork. Extra costs compared with brick construction are estimated to be: Library- nil, Building Research Laboratory- $4,900, Mineralogy and Land Resources Laboratories- $7,000. 
The comments at page 156 of the Report that selection of these materials increased costs from double to six times are non specific and are misleading. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to statements at page 136 of the publication Report of the Independent Inquiry into the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation August 1977. 
The statements are not correct. 
The facilities have been designed and constructed in accordance with the CSIRO brief and, in fact, incorporate major economies identified by the Department of Construction following examination of this brief. CSIRO accepted the Department's advice that savings could be made without detriment to their functional requirements including an estimated $650,000 savings on emergency power and vibration control requirements. 
These and other savings relating to finishes and standards may not have been achieved if the funds had been controlled by CSIRO or if the Department and CSIRO had not been working in close co-operation. 
Evidence was given to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Public Works by representatives of Contraction and CSIRO that close collaboration in the design of the laboratories had taken place. This evidence accurately set out the position and this close collaboration continued throughout preparation of detailed plans and specifications and during construction of the laboratory. 
There were no cost saving measures proposed by CSIRO that were not included in the final construction. 
There would have been no further savings from this source. In this respect, and with the concurrence of the Minister for Science, the following extract is quoted from a letter from the Director of the National Measurement Laboratories to the  Chairman  of CSIRO: 'To support its recommendations it (the Report) offers the new N.M.L. at Bradfield Park as an example where considerable savings could have been made. This criticism is without foundation. There has been close and effective collaboration between the Department and CSIRO at all stages in the design and construction and nothing has been included that is not needed to meet our technical requirements'. 
5 ) Neither I, my predecessors, or the Depanment of Construction have received any representations from the Minister for Science, former Ministers for Science, the Depanment of Science or the CSIRO concerning alleged extravagances in the design and construction of the laboratories. 
My attention has been drawn to the observation at page 1 36 of the Report regarding gold plated windows. The windows are glazed with Glavabel Stopray glass and are in accordance with the CSIRO brief. This metalised reflective glass has mirror like properties over most of the electromagnetic spectrum and has been installed to meet technical and functional requirements. The glass is pan of the electromagnetic screening system which shields the laboratories from fields generated by sources such as the nearby TV stations. 
Continuity of screening is provided by  lA  "galvanised wire netting in the cavity brick walls and by the metal deck roofing, all of which are effectively earthed. Although installed for its electro-magnetic screening properties, the reflective properties of the glass also reduce the radiant heat load on the building and resulted in substantial savings in the cost of airconditioning plant, window treatments, and sunscreens. In addition, the operating cost of the airconditioning plant is reduced by up to $ 1 5,000 per annum. 
If charges of extravagance amounting to misuse of public funds are made it might be expected as a matter of prudence and of responsible procedure that conclusions reached would be supported by fact and would have been checked with the Depanment concerned. This was not done and the Report's conclusion that considerable savings could have been made in the construction of the National Measurement Laboratories if CSIRO had controlled the funds is without foundation. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Qantas Airways Limited (Loan Guarantee) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to question No. 468  (Hansard,  4 April 1978, page 978). 
The answer to the honourable members 's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Construction was asked by the Administrative Review Council to provide information relating to the operation of tribunals created under legislation administered by the Department and tribunals administered or serviced by the Department. 
The Department of Construction responded to the request on 25 February 1977. 
As indicated at ( 1 ), the Department provided information to the Administrative Review Council but the Council did not include the information at Appendix III of the First Annual Report as the matters mentioned in the reply were not appropriate for inclusion. 
by leave- The House will be aware that on 1 June 1977 the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  tabled the report of the Standing Committee on Expenditure concerning accommodation for married servicemen. The Government considers that the problems associated with defence service housing exceed, in some aspects, the terms of reference of the House of Representatives Committee. It has therefore decided that the inquiry and investigation arising out of the Committee's report should be made more wide ranging and comprehensive to cover all aspects of defence housing and will include an examination of the scope for selling a proportion of the housing stock, particularly where such accommodation is frequently unoccupied. The inquiry will be carried out in the first instance by a senior level interdepartmental committee. This decision has been made having full regard to the report by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. 
Until the results of the inquiry are available, and instead of following the formula for the servicemen's group rent scheme, which would have led to substantial immediate increases in rentwhich I stress- the Government has decided as an interim measure to increase rent based on movement in the rent component of the consumer price index during 1977. This will mean an increase of 9.6 per cent. The increase will be effective in early July and rental for servicemen's housing will be varied by amounts ranging from 50c to $4 per week. Turning to the Standing Committee's significant contribution to the subject of service accommodation, I would like to commend the members for their obvious concern for the welfare of servicemen which is evident in the report, and which I share. There is considerable merit in many of the Committee's recommendations, which are directed at producing greater flexibility and more economical ways of providing accommodation for married servicemen. The Standing Committee's basic recommendations are aimed at the discontinuation of many plans for the construction or acquisition of housing for use by married servicemen; the introduction of explicit rent allowances and or concessions to compensate servicemen for housing related disabilities that are not compensated for by other schemes- this is contrasted with the present situation where the difference between market rents and the rents servicemen pay represents an implicit subsidy or rent concession; the gradual divestment by the Commonwealth of part of the existing defence stock by selling some Commonwealth-owned houses and returning some stock to the States. 
A number of fundamental issues which require further examination will be examined by the interdepartmental committee. These issues include such matters as: Whether there is a ready availability of private rental housing to meet the special needs of married servicemen; the viability of a new housing allowance and/or concession scheme as a replacement for existing schemes; recognition and acceptance of a rental subsidy for married servicemen. 
In addressing these aspects of the Standing Committee's report, it may assist members if I briefly recount the history of Service married accommodation. Until 1955 it was not the general practice to provide housing for married members of the Defence Force in metropolitan areas except for a limited number of houses for 'key' personnel. Houses were provided for some married personnel in other localities. By 1955, the size of the Defence Force had considerably expanded, and lack of housing for married members had become so critical as to cause a serious morale and re-engagement problem. 
Consequently, in 1956, the government of the day approved a vigorous program of providing married quarters for servicemen to enable the Defence Force to be deployed readily across Australia. Successive governments have continued this policy. Since 1956, some 16,000 dwellings have been provided for servicemen under the Commonwealth- State Housing Agreement. A further 3,000 dwellings have been acquired through the Department of Administrative Services or built through the Department of Construction. As a result there are now about 23,000 dwellings available for the use of some 28,000 married servicemen actively seeking official married accommodation. The shortfall of 5,000 dwellings is met by renting from the private market, and servicemen in this category are assisted through the existing temporary rental allowance- TRA- scheme, in addition, there are a further 10,000 married servicemen who make their own housing arrangements. 
The Standing Committee on Expenditure has recommended not only the continuation of building or acquiring new housing other than in on base' situations or elsewhere where the private housing market cannot meet the Service demands, but additionally the gradual reduction of existing defence stock. This would involve many servicemen in due course seeking accommodation for their families on the private market. An important issue is therefore whether this far reaching change in established policy would adversely affect the ready deployment of the Defence Force or the morale and welfare of Service families. The Committee has also made several recommendations in regard to rents and associated allowances for married servicemen. Experience has shown that these are complex and sensitive issues about which servicemen themselves have strong feelings. 
When the Committee of Inquiry into Financial Terms and Conditions of Service for the Regular Armed Forces- the Woodward Committeereported to the Minister for Defence in December 1972, it noted that there was a series of variable and confusing rent situations met by servicemen as they moved from post to post, and it recommended a greater consistency of treatment both in standards of accommodation and in rental contributions. From 1972 to 1975 intensive study within the Department of Defence was directed at a system which would: Disassociate rents from salary as far as possible and relate them instead to the quality of the dwelling provided; apply standard rents to houses across Australia regardless of their source, location, type of construction or actual cost; prevent frequent rent increases to some Service tenants. 
The Defence Group Rent Scheme-the GRSincorporating the above principles, commenced in April 1976. The Scheme was based primarily on relating rents to housing quality and to this end, every one of approximately 23,000 houses was measured and inspected to assess its compatibility with the authorised scales and standards for servicemen. It was decided that there should be six basic categories of dwellings and a rent was struck for each. The total of these rents when collected would equal the total of assessed economic rentals, in other words, the estimated cost of providing Service housing would be returned to revenue. Thus the confusion and unpredictability of previous arrangements were mitigated. Regardless of where a serviceman was posted he could be sure of the maximum rent he would be required to pay. However, during the two years' operation of the Group Rent Scheme, very steep rental increases have occurred. These have resulted from costs of upgrading older houses, high costs of maintenance and increasing construction costs. 
Apart from building or acquiring Service housing it has also been the policy of successive governments to provide financial assistance to servicemen who are posted to localities where married quarters are not available. This assistance, which is known as the temporary rental allowance, is very similar to longstanding provisions made for the Commonwealth Public Service, and includes provision for special consideration to be given to individual cases. The committee has recommended the ultimate phasing out of both the existing temporary rental allowance arrangement and the Group Rent 
Scheme, and their replacement with a rent allowance or rent subsidy related to rank and local market conditions. In considering the Committee's report, the Government confirmed the Committee's view that Defence housing policy had direct bearing on deployment and efficiency of the Defence Force. 
Pending a final decision which will be made when the report of the interdepartmental committee has been received and considered, the Government has decided to follow the Standing Committee's recommendations to make increased use of a number of alternative sources of housing to meet the requirements for housing for servicemen- thus getting better value for money. These sources involve use of private builders, acquisition of existing houses on the open market and hiring of other dwellings. In other areas, particularly in capital cities, greater emphasis is being placed on use of the private rental market. The Real Estate Institute of Australia and a major project builder have been asked to assist in the review of scales and standards of housing for servicemen so that Service housing is more closely aligned with that in the general community. I believe that these changes will not only lead to more economical ways of building or acquiring Defence housing, but that greater use of the private rental market will provide satisfactory accommodation for a substantial proportion of servicemen. 
The Government accepts the Standing Committee 's view that servicemen have certain housing related disabilities. In pursuance of the Committee's basic recommendation to provide explicit rent allowances, the indepartmental committee will investigate, together with other possibilities, the feasibility of introducing a viable rent allowance or concession scheme to replace existing schemes for married servicemen. The existing schemes will not be replaced unless and until satisfactory and comprehensive alternatives have been developed to replace them. In anticipation of further debate on the Standing Committee's report on accommodation for married servicemen, I commend the matters to which I have referred for the consideration of members of the House. 
I present the following paper: 
Accommodation for Married Servicemen- Ministerial Statement, 4 May 1978. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of National Acoustics Laboratory and Ultrasonics Institute, Chatswood, N.S.W. 
The proposal is for the construction of facilities to house the testing, research, administration and support activities of the National Acoustics Laboratory and the Ultrasonics Institute of the Department of Health. It is proposed that the laboratory complex be built on vacant Commonwealth land in Chatswood, New South Wales, and that it replace facilities at present located in unsatisfactory warehouse accommodation at Circular Quay West, Sydney, New South Wales. The acoustic performance of the buildings will influence the scope and quality of testing and research activities performed. The site is well suited for these purposes and the design will take advantage of the local topography to shield and isolate the laboratories from noise and vibration. The building will be designed to harmonise with the natural bushland surroundings and an appropriately landscaped car park will be provided. The estimated cost of the proposal at April 1978 prices is $12m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a proposed high school, Nhulunbuy, N.T. 
The proposal is for the construction of a high school to accommodate 400 students, utilising a modular system of construction developed for Northern Territory schools. It is planned that the facilities provided will include two general learning units, a science unit, a multi-purpose area, industrial arts, art-craft and home economics areas, a library-resource centre and administration areas. These will be housed in separate modular buildings located around a central courtyard. Provision of a janitor's residence, an oval and tennis and basketball courts on the 12- hectare site is also planned. Nhulunbuy is located on the Gove Peninsula and is in an area subject to cyclones. The structures will be designed to cater for these conditions. Materials and finishes will be selected to simplify construction and minimise capital and maintenance costs. The estimated cost of the proposal at April 1978 prices is $3. 15m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total value of capital works committed or expected to be committed to construction by the Department of Construction in the first six months of 1978 is approximately $269m. 
This figure relates to the programs undertaken by the Department of Construction for all Civil Departments, the Defence Department and the Postal and Telecommunications Commissions, but does not include programs for other authorities, and some of which the Department may carry out on an agency basis. 
In addition the total value of Capital Works committed or expected to be committed by the National Capital Development Commission in the first sue months of 1978 is approximately $35m. This figure includes that part of the NCDC works program undertaken by the Department of Construction. 
No information can be given for the remainder of 1978 as the works programs for the 1978-79 financial year are now being formulated. 
This part of the honourable member's question involves a very large volume of detailed information. As indicated by the magnitude of the figures I have quoted in ( 1 ) above a great number of individual projects is involved. There are approximately SOO major projects each of a cost exceeding $15,000; in addition there are of the order of 1,000 minor works. 
To collect and assemble this information on an Australian wide basis would be a major task involving a considerable administrative effort in time and cost, which I am not prepared to authorise. As a measure of assistance however I would refer the honourable member to Budget Paper No. 5 the 'Civil Works Program' which covers the wide variety of works involved in excess of $40,000 for the financial year 1977-78. 
If the honourable member wishes to know details of any particular project, I will be pleased to provide further information. 
It is not possible to accurately quantify the new employment that will be generated by the above works programs as: 
The level of on-site employment on projects varies significantly throughout the currency of each project. For example the largest single project commenced in March 1978 is the Australian National Animal Health Laboratory (ANAHL) at Geelong. As this project gathers momentum it will directly employ at various stages an estimated 200 to SOO men on-site. 
It is not possible to assess the secondary employment these projects will generate in the supporting industries and factories. 
In broad terms on average rates the commencement of some $269m in the first half of 1978 will require something in excess of 5,000 man years on-site. The new employment component to a large extent depends upon the volume of current programs coming forward and the replacement of old works being completed. 
A better way to quantify the situation is to compare the program for this financial year with the last. In 1977-78 the Department will have commenced new works totalling some $380m. This compares with commencements of $240m in 1 976-77. Even excluding the ANAHL project this represents an increase of $59m or 25 per cent. In real terms there is an increase of about 1 7 per cent. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act, 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of an onshore high security animal quarantine station, Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
This proposal was first examined by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works in 1973 and the Committee recommended construction of the work subject to acquisition of the site from the Clunies-Ross estate and confirmation that it had the support of the local people. Site acquisition was completed on 8 March 1978 and the local people have indicated their support. 
Since 1973 requirements have changed and the number of imported animals to be accommodated has been reduced from 200 to 120. Changes have also been introduced to incorporate the latest concepts of animal care and husbandry. As a consequence of these changes, the Committee re-examined the proposal and in again recommending construction of the works noted that: 
The need for the quarantine station has not diminished since the Committee reported in 1973. 
Australia has a continuing need for improved genetic material for its economic range of livestock species. 
To ensure complete disease security from the mainland, the Committee confirms the selection of the site on West Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
The reduction in station capacity from 200 to 120 adult cattle will not prejudice the viability of the station and will be offset, in certain respects, by the additional facilities to be provided at the Torrens Island station. 
The new design incorporates the latest concept of animal care and husbandry. 
The estimated cost of the works is $6.4m at February 1978 prices, which I might mention represents a saving of over $3m on the initial project, for which the Public Works Committee should receive some credit. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning will proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provision of the  Public Works Committee Act  1 969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Redevelopment of airways facilities, Adelaide Airport, SA. 
The proposal is for the construction of a new operations building, an associated services building and an air traffic control tower on the western side of Adelaide airport. The estimated cost of the proposed work, is $2.35m at April 1978 prices. The Committee in reporting favourably on the proposal made the following recommendations in relation to external cladding material and site landscaping. These are: 
Recommendation No. 5. The proposed use of deep corrugated asbestos cement external cladding should be reexamined with regard to alternative light weight claddings with the purpose of utilising the most satisfactory material bearing in mind visual, durability and economic factors. 
Although the Department of Construction examined various alternative types of materials selecting the asbestos cement cladding it will undertake a further review of this matter in consulation with the Department of Transport and the Committee will be further advised. 
Recommendation No. 6. The Committee suggests that consideration be given to landscaping in the form of low maintenance shrubbery being used to screen the buildings from Tapley's Hill Road and to help reduce traffic noise intruding into the proposed buildings. 
The design already provides some landscaping work but the departments of Construction and Transport will examine the provision of further landscaping together with the additional costs involved. The Committee has agreed that there is a need for the proposed new airways facilities at Adelaide airport and has recommended that they be provided as expeditiously as possible. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed. 
-I thank the honourable member for asking the question and acknowledge his continuing interest in ASCO- in fact, in the welfare of the Services as a whole. The position is that about 18 months ago, perhaps 24 months ago, the Minister for Defence asked me to look at the problems of the Organisation. I think he said that he felt that I had had more experience in this area. It has been a very complex process because it is a complex Organisation. I am able to advise that on 10 May a decision was taken in principle to terminate the services of ASCO. A group comprising representatives of the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations, ASCO itself, the Department of Defence and the Public Service Board was appointed to assist the ASCO Council in the winding down of ASCO. I think that one could hardly say it is a secret. On 22 May I wrote to the  chairman  of the ASCO Council, formally telling him of the decision. He said he appreciated the decision and it would be very difficult to implement. On May 24 the managing director of the ASCO board of management wrote to all of the staff members of ASCO, which represents nearly a thousand people. So if we have been conducting this in a secret way, nearly a thousand people are privy to the secret. There is absolutely no secrecy about this matter at all and I suggest statements of the type that have been made in the last day or so do nothing to help ASCO, its staff or its services. 
I am not sure that I have all the parts of the question in order, but in the first place I have not put out a Press release at all. Anything that the honourable member has read in the Press has only been attributed to me. I have not said that there have been accumulated losses. In fact there have not been and that is on public record in Australian Services Canteens Organisation reports. I have said that we are approaching a quite substantial loss situation in the current year and ASCO cannot proceed in its present form without a very substantial subsidy from the Government. I do not think that the Treasurer's mood is such that he would support that sort of application. So far as employment is concerned, on 24 May the managing director of ASCO sent out a memorandum to each of the employees of ASCO setting out guidelines as to the sort of program we wish to achieve. I table that document. 
I think the last question that the honourable gentleman asked was whether the Government would reconsider its decision. The Government will not reconsider its decision. It is the only decision that has been taken by the Government and the other decisions will flow as the program is developed. Attempts by individuals to score political points by muddying the water at this stage will not help anybody connected with ASCO. 
The question of superannuation and other benefits is part of the program which will develop. 
Pursuant to section 10a of the Royal Australian Air Force Veterans' Residences Act 1953 I present the annual report of the RAAF Veterans' Residences Trust Fund for the year ended 30 June 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In accordance with Finance Direction 23/7, rental charges for home telephone services and a proportion of metered calls are met by the Department of Construction only where it is clearly demonstrated that there is a need for the facility to enable staff to effectively carry out their official functions. 
The Department carries out new works and repairs and maintenance spread over a very large geographic area. It also operates public utilities in the Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory and essential services in Commonwealth establishments. It is important that both key staff and employees can readily be contacted; many of these personnel are on call out. 
As at 9 May 1 978 the Department paid the rental and part of the call charges for 2 1 3 officers and 220 other employees. 
The cost to the Department in 1976-77 was $44,500. Payment made by officers and employees was $47,600. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. Handover of these services to the Company was completed on 13. 1 1.77. However, in 1976-77 the cafeterias listed in (4) were operated by the Department of Construction. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions Section 8. 
(3)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
Capital funds have been appropriated in the annual budget for the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation. 
Appropriations were received as under for the years indicated: 
1975- 76-$400,000. 
1976- 77-$375,000. 
1977- 78-Nil. 
These additional capital sums were one line appropriations. 
The Commonwealth Auditor-General, Canberra, A.C.T. 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act- 1970. 
There has not been any review or inquiry into the Corporation since establishment in 1 970. 
Ship Launchings by Ministers' Wives  (Question No. 1374) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following arrangements apply within the Department of Construction and the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for recycling of waste materials such as paper, metals and glass. 
Paper- Where the Department shares premises with other Departments a contract for the collection and disposal of waste paper is arranged by the Department of Administrative Services. In other cases it is usual for the Department to arrange with its cleaning contractor for the disposal of waste paper. It is known that some contractors arrange for recycling of waste paper. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has no facilities to permit the reuse of waste paper but arrangements are made for bulk collection of papers for later recycling. 
Waste Building Materials- Reusable building material (other than that which is specified as the property of a contractor) is either reused or sold by the Department. At the Department's works depots scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals are collected and sold in quantity lots for recycling. 
The Department's glass scrap is minimal and is generally dumped with other unusable building waste. Occasionally reusable glass windows or glass sheets are salvaged and it is either reused by the Department or sold. 
The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has very little waste metal, glass or other materials salvaged. Scrap metal is retained and sold on the open market from time to time but the amount involved is very small. 
See(l)above. 
The answer to the first three parts of the question is yes. As to the last part, yes, I would like very much to be invited to come down there. 
It has been suggested,  Mr Speaker,  that I should go while the House is sitting. The position is that the tender will be let in, I think, October. The time of construction will be approximately 2 years for the stores complex and just over 2 years for the administration building, and the laboratory should be completed in April 1981. 
I understand that there have been some suggestions in the Press in Tasmania this morning that the job has been deferred. I say that is simply untrue. Suggestions that it has been deferred or that only some nominal amount of a few thousand dollars will be spent on it are untrue. I expect that this financial year probably about $3m will be spent on the project. At this moment I would like also to make the point that total Commonwealth funds for Tasmania this year have been increased from $479m to $502m and that the untied funds have been increased from $3 15m to $34 lm, which is an increase of 81/4 per cent. This is at a time when the rate of inflation is running at 7.9 per cent. If one thinks ahead to next year when the rate of inflation will be running at 5 per cent, one can see that that is a very significant increase to Tasmania. 
In conclusion, I mention that the amount of Commonwealth funds spent on construction in Tasmania this year will be about $9m. Last year about $4m was spent, so that in itself is a significant increase. I also acknowledge the work of the honourable member for Denison and other honourable members from Tasmania whose persuasion had something to do with this appropriation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
Last week in answer to a question from the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  in respect of the construction of the Antarctic base at Kingston, I said, amongst other things, that the Government expected this financial year to spend approximately $3m on that project. The position is that in this financial year we will spend approximately Sim on the project and in the second half of next calendar year we will spend $2m on the project. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Cost of maternity leave in the Department of Construction in 1976- $146,086; 1977-$127,428; 1978-562,541 (to May 1978). 
The total hours of leave in respect of these employees was 87,259. 
Number of employees who resigned or retired within one month of the end of the leave period in 1976-32; 1977-21; 1978-3 (to May 1978). 
Information in the form sought in this part of the honourable member's question is not available from department records. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Defence  (Question No. 1355) 
-The Minister for Defence has asked me to handle this question. Actually, I do not know whether I can say any more about it than he could. It is a fact that that building is being constructed. It is a fact that Dillingham Constructions has the contract. It is a fact that I have been through the building. It is also a fact that there are security connotations which prevent us from discussing the project in this place. I suggest that the question be treated as being on notice. I will provide the honourable gentleman with a full reply today. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions  or  the  Public Works Committee Act  1 969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of National Acoustics Laboratory and Ultrasonics Institute, Chatswood, NSW. 
The proposal is for the construction of facilities to house the testing, research, administration and support activities of the National Acoustics Laboratory and Ultrasonics Institute in a building complex in which they would share common service facilities. The site of the proposed works is on vacant Commonwealth land in Greville Street, Chatswood, and the new complex will replace existing facilities located in unsuitable warehouse accommodation at Millers Point, Sydney. The estimated cost of the proposed works is $ 1 2m at April 1 978 prices. 
The Committee, in recommending the construction of the work, concluded that: 
The Departments of Health and Administrative Services should discuss with the Willoughby Municipal Council and local residents the question of continued public access to the site and to the surrounding bushland. 
The Government accepts this recommendation and the departments concerned will explore this with the Council and local residents with a view to making appropriate arrangements for public access subject to resolution of liability risks and to maintenance of security of the complex. The Committee also recommended: 
The Depanment of Construction take all possible measures to minimise inconvenience to local residents during construction, particularly from heavy vehicles and blasting. 
The Government accepts this recommendation and the Department of Construction will take the appropriate action. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of a High School at Nhulunbuy, Northern Territory. 
The proposal is for the construction of a high school to accommodate 400 students incorporating two general learning units, science unit, multi-purpose area, industrial arts, art-craft and home economics, library and administration areas. These facilities will be housed in modular buildings located around a central courtyard. Planning also provides for a janitor's residence, oval, two tennis courts and two basketball courts. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $3. 15m at April 1978 prices. 
The Committee in recommending the construction of the work concluded that: 
The tennis courts should be surfaced with concrete in lieu of bitumen. 
The government accepts this recommendation. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Amendment Bill and the Apple and Pear Stabilization Export Duty Collection Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of the three Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Enoggera Military Area Stage II development, Qld. 
The proposal is for the construction of 68 buildings to provide new and additional working and other accommodation at the Enoggera military area for Field Force units of 6 Task Force and 1 Division. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $ 17.3m at May 1978 prices. The Public Works Committee has reported favourably on the proposal and has recommended the construction of the works involved. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Development of Army site stage 1, Bonegilla, Victoria. 
The proposal is for the construction of new permanent living, working and recreational facilities to accommodate: The Army Apprentices School at present located in sub-standard accommodation at Balcombe, Victoria; the School of Military Survey presently located in temporary accommodation at Bonegilla, Victoria; and recruit training for the Women's Royal Australian Army Corp, presently in temporary accommodation at George's Heights, Sydney, New South Wales. The main elements involved in the proposal are: Instructional facilities; messing and sleeping accommodation for all ranks; administration, stores and transport facilities; a combined dental and medical centre; indoor and outdoor sporting facilities; and ten on-site married quarters. 
Low rise buildings are proposed throughout the complex, with a maximum of three storeys. Brick construction is proposed for the greater number of the buildings, with the few larger buildings in concrete. These latter buildings will be faced with coloured panels with a mixture of brickwork and timber panels to continue the domestic type treatment throughout the complex. The estimated cost of the works at July 1978 prices is $29.5m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Directives have been issued under Sections 16(3), 16(4). 17 (4) and 35 (b) of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970. in relation to the following matters: 
Section 16 (3)- Detailed working arrangements of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Consultative Committee set up in accordance with the Act. 
Section 16 (4)- The Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Consultative Committee to advise the Minister whether and how a function in respect of particular engineering work should be exercised by the Corporation. 
Section 17 (4)- Section 17(3) of Act not to apply to specified classes of consultancy work. 
Section 35 (b)- Statements of the Corporation's current and prospective works, and staff figures, to be furnished to Minister at regular intervals. 
Pursuant to section 36 of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Act 1970 I present the annual report of the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I will not delay the House for very long. However, I am pleased to be able to say to the honourable member for 
Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  that the Government is in a position to respond to one of those matters that he raised. We have received a number of representations, not only from honourable members on both sides of the House and from honourable senators, but also from organisations such as the TB Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmens' Association of Australia. They are concerned that benefits for war veterans with tuberculosis and other pre-existing and chronic conditions may not be payable by private health funds- this matter was raised by the honourable gentleman- because of the exclusion provisions in the by-laws of health funds. This treatment is given at the moment under the existing provisions of regulation 66. This position has been checked with the Department of Health which is the department that approves the conditions under which the funds operate. The health insurance division of the Department has advised that in respect of the new arrangements that commence on 1 November all funds will be obliged to offer basic medical and hospital tables which will not exclude benefits for pre-existing  and  chronic illnesses. 
-That is correct, 40 per cent will be the benefit. We are able to indicate to the honourable gentleman that at least that much of what he seeks was agreed to. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the inquiry conducted by  Sir Basil  Osborne, C.B.E., on the Australian Services Canteens Organisation. I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 

 - Sir Basil Osborne, a retired businessman and former Lord Mayor of Hobart, was commissioned in July 1975 by the then Minister for Defence to review the canteen requirements for the Defence Force. It was an attempt to find a solution to the various financial problems facing the Australian Services Canteens Organisation, at that time.  His  report, which I have tabled today, was completed early in 1976. It was subjected to close examination within ASCO, the Services, and the Department of Defence. The report reflected the efforts given by  Sir Basil  and seemed to reflect the close contact he made with the serving members. Many but not all of his proposals were attractive to the Defence Force but as a general scheme it was not acceptable, particularly against the background of economic restraint. 
Further studies have been undertaken and these have had regard to the recommendations of  Sir Basil.  As has been announced earlier this year, it has been decided in principle that ASCO should be run down and ultimately closed. The Government is grateful for the time and effort given by  Sir Basil  in his attempts to find the solution to a most difficult problem. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Construction requires that all of its designers understand the Australian Standard Design Code 1428-1977 and incorporate the design rules for access by the disabled in the design of all new government buildings, as appropriate. Project designs are reviewed by Departmental Committees and their reviews include the monitoring of this aspect. 
Consideration of the rules in the design of new government buildings is mandatory throughout the department. 
Firstly, I would like to apologise for and explain the absence of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  This morning after Question Time the Minister, accompanied by senior officers and service personnel from the Department of Defence, left for Indonesia where he wil be until the end of next week. He asked me to thank at least those honourable members who participated in the debate which he heard yesterday, which I now do. I do not know whether he would want me to thank those honourable members who participated in the debate today. I think perhaps he may not. 
I just want to make a couple of observations, particularly in respect of the work which was referred to by nearly every member of the Subcommittee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence which has been sitting in Canberra in recent weeks and receiving quite a deal of media attention. When I was a back bench member of the previous Liberal Government, I was a member of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee. In 1971 or 1972 a Subcommittee was set up to investigate matters relating to the Indian Ocean. I remember the complement of that Sub-committee. It consisted of  Mr Fairbairn, Mr Street, Senator Sim,  and I think  Senator Wheeldon  from the then Opposition, and me. The Sub-committee took evidence from experts- people who really were recognised experts in their field. Some were academics, some were service people and some had had service overseas in foreign missions. Right throughout the sittings of the Sub-committee and subsequently when the report was presented to the Parliament no Sub-committee member tried to score a political point. So good was the work of that Sub-committee that I understand the document is still in demand and is still printed. It was the report of the Sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence relating to the Indian Ocean and was published in 1971 or 1972, if any honourable member would like to look at it. It concerns me that so much of the time of the Parliament and certainly so much space in the media is devoted to criticism of officials of the Department of Defence or 'bureaucrats' as they have been referred to in this debate giving evidence before the subcommittee. 
Before I say any more on that point, I refer to a couple of matters that were raised by honourable gentlemen who have participated in this debate. I had better deal with these matters now before the honourable gentlemen leave the chamber. In particular I thank the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  for what he had to say about the need for stepped-up civil and military surveillance. I would like to expand on what he said. It is not generally realised in the community that there has been a very significantly increased effort in surveillance around this country, not just military but civilian as well. On 9 July, the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  issued a Press statement which gave a great deal of detail. Very briefly, I would like to mention a couple of points contained in the Press statement. First of all,  Mr Nixon,  said the new program involved the introduction of daily air searches of northern coastal areas between Geraldton and Cairns by civilian aircraft on charter to the Commonwealth. He said it involved the extension of aerial surveillance by Royal Australian Air Force long-range maritime patrol aircraft- that is the Orion- to cover the 200 nautical mile fishing zone and other special requirements. He pointed out that there was an increase from seven to nine in the number of Royal Australian Navy patrol boats directly available for civilian surveillance and enforcement. Of course, there are 15 new patrol boats on order. 
The Minister referred to the use of three special radar equipped aircraft to be chartered for special customs response. He referred to improvements in the surveillance and intelligence collection which would improve and extend existing voluntary reporting systems and encourage wider general public reporting. I think every member of the chamber will have received a copy of a pamphlet put out by the Australian Coastal Surveillance Organisation. I think it would be useful if honourable members distributed the pamphlet around the country. It is possible for someone who sees something that he believes is of interest, whether it be related to customs, drugs or some other surveillance problem, to ring directly to a central authority in Canberra at Government expense. I think this indicates the Government's awareness of the need to increase our surveillance program. The impact of the new program can be seen by the fact that there will be about 27,000 military and civil aircraft flying hours dedicated to civil surveillance. In the year to 30 June last only about 5,000 such hours were flown. So there is to be a very steep increase in the amount of surveillance. 
The honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  was good enough to invite me to accompany him on an inspection of some service homes. I did not hear where these homes are located but obviously it will be somewhere in Victoria. 
I will be very pleased to do so. I think that, while we are on the subject of housing, I ought to place on the record that the Government has adopted many of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. There has been, albeit slow, quite a deal of improvement in service housing in that we have been able to dispose of much of what are very poor quality apartments in particular and houses. The honourable member may know of such housing in Melbourne and Sydney. A positive effort is being made on behalf of the Government to update the quality of service housing. I would be pleased to take the honourable member up on his invitation. 
I was a little less pleased about the honourable member's reference to some other matters, particularly his reference to  Mr Richard  Hall as an authority on defence matters. The honourable member used material contained in that gentleman's book to attack the Department of Defence and the Government. My recollection is that  Mr Hall  was a Press Secretary to one of the Labor Ministers. He might have even been  Mr Whitlam  's Press Secretary. I do not know whether I personally would regard  Mr Hall  as an authority on defence matters. But if it suits the convenience of the Labor member to quote him, I suppose that is fair game. This is getting fairly close to a technique that I believe is used in this place all too often. I refer to the technique of manufacturing a story about an individual which is then referred to in the media as a fact and because it is referred to again and again it is seen as the truth. 
This is the sort of technique that is used which frankly I deplore, as I am sure does the honourable member. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding)  spent some little time also making what I thought was perhaps an unnecessarily severe attack on officials of the Department of Defence. It is not until one has a lot to do with officials of this department that one can begin to understand their quality. It is easy to stand off and be critical. The honourable gentleman said that he had written to the Minister seeking a file. I think the date he said he wrote was on 26 September. He said he received a reply on 9 October. That does not appear to me to be too unreasonable. After all, it takes a couple of days for a letter to go one way and a couple of days for the reply to go the other way. 
The honourable gentleman has had a response. This is a recent request which will have to be put to examination. The honourable member will receive a substantive reply as I am sure everyone who writes to a Minister does. 
The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  expressed concern when speaking in the debate yesterday at what was being said by witnesses to the sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. I equally share concern. He said that he as a Government member would keep an open mind. I would hope that all members of the sub-committee will keep an open mind because so far as I am aware up to date the only principal witnesses who have given evidence- certainly those who have been reported- have attacked the Department of Defence. It would seem to be reasonable to wait until all witnesses appeared before the Committee before we make any assessment. I am concerned because at this stage there seems to be no balance in the evidence that is being given. Certainly there is no balance in the reports. 
Much of the criticism of the Department of Defence, the Government and the Minister, comes in my view at any rate from people who have given evidence of dubious relevance. Take as an example the industrialists who have given evidence before the Committee. They feel - 
The evidence is of dubious relevance because it comes from people who have a grievance in that they have not received government contracts. Some other people who have given evidence can be regarded as academics. But academics have no experience of and no responsibility for the handling of public money. One witness, who appeared before the subcommittee was a class 9 clerk in the Third Division of the Auditor-General's Department. I do not know what the Department thinks about that. The next thing we will have one of the tea ladies from the Attorney-General's giving evidence and then being reported in the media as being an authority. I am talking about the way in which this sub-committee is being misused in my view by people who only want to use it as a forum for pushing a political line. 
I will not delay the Committee any longer. I regret the behaviour not only of people who have appeared before the sub-committee but also of some members who have used the subcommittee as a forum. Some members of the sub-committee, even before it had a single witness from the Department of Defence, sought to act as judge, jury and executioner. I hope that the standard of performance of people appearing as witnesses before that Committee improves. It would be a good thing if the standard of debate coming out of that sub-committee was a little less parochial. 
Proposed expenditure agreed to. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Construction for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the  Public Works Committee Act  1 969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Garden Island Dockyard, NSW- Workshop, amenities building and services. 
The proposal consists of five separate works, each providing a functional facility for the dockyard, as follows: 
A workshop building of three storeys to house facilities to service the new guided missile frigates; an amenities and refit control building of two storeys to house office accommodation for approximately 30 staff, as well as showers, toilets, lunch and change rooms for approximately 240 dockyard personnel; provision of rotary convenor and reticulation to augment 60 hertz power supply to three wharves; provision of a5-tonne electrical-powered portal crane on the east dock wharf; extension of existing east dock wharf services to the southern end of the wharf with additional provision of general purpose electric light and power and ship-to-shore sewerage disposal services. A telephone ship-to-shore connection will also be provided. 
The works are urgently required in advance of consideration of a plan for overall modernisation of Garden Island. The estimated cost of the works, at October 1978 prices, is $7.35m. I table plans of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill I suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Superannuation Amendment Bill 1978, as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The delays that have been experienced in this project are due to the problems that had to be overcome in air conditioning and adapting as quickly as possible an existing timber framed iron clad building at the Army's Ingleburn Research Unit into a research facility capable of controlling temperature and humidity conditions to within very fine tolerances. 
Because of the urgency and the need to minimise documentation the work was done by departmental day labour. 
Stock item air conditioning equipment was also used to avoid the need and delay associated with the design and manufacture of special air conditioning units. When the operation of this equipment was determined to be not what the manufacturer had previously advised, design modifications had to be incorporated during construction, delaying completion by several months. 
Although the bulk of the work was completed by March 1976, some complications with the electrical circuitry and switchboards delayed full completion until December 1976. 
The Department of Construction first became involved in the project in December 1974. Funds were provided in April 1975 and work commenced in August 1975. 
The work was completed in December 1976. Recently some further modifications were put in hand to overcome operational difficulties being experienced in controlling temperature and humidity conditions to the very fine tolerances necessary to carry out the research unit's activities. These modifications are due for completion in November 1978 although commissioning of the plant to stabilise temperature and humidity could take several more weeks to achieve. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Construction 
1 ) The Depanment: 
owns one NCR SOO computer used in its Victorian/ Tasmania Region. 
operates- 
Eight ICL 2903 computers in state and central offices; and 
Five Digital PDP 11/34 computers in state offices. 
is in the process of purchasing departmental computing facilities to replace and upgrade all of the computers presently leased. 
leases the equipment in (b) above together with an ICL 1904A computer which is located at ICL's bureau in Melbourne, operated by their staff, but made available for the Department 's exclusive use. 
The costs associated with the various equipments are- 
The answer to the honourable gentleman 's question is as follows: 
1 ) Current market costs of construction materials, labour and plant are held in an ICL 1904 computer leased by the Department of Construction and this information is made available to members of the National Public Works Conference. 
Trends in these costs in different geographic locations and periods of time are available to these members and to other Australian Government Departments and Authorities such as the Australian Bureau of Statistics, Department of Treasury and client departments. 
No other information stored in departmental computers is available to anyone other than authorised employees. 
The information at ( 1 ) above is made available at no cost. 
There are no current circumstances under which any other information can be sold, hired, lent or given. 
3 ) On no occasions, other than that mentioned in ( 1 ), has data been provided in the past. 
Information stored in the computer operated by the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation has not been made available to other than properly authorised employees. 
May I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the motion to take note of the ministerial statement and papers on the reorganisation of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation as they are associated matters. Separate questions will, of course, be put on the Bill and the motion to take note of the papers at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the Bill and the ministerial statement and papers to be discussed in this debate. 
On behalf of the Government I thank all those honourable gentlemen who have taken part in this debate- the honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  who has just resumed his seat, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  While the honourable member for Kingston is still in the chamber I will comment very briefly on one of the points which he raised in respect of the social consequences- I think they were the words he used- of this legislation. In doing so, I refer him to the debate in the other place on 24 October and to the comments of the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  on that aspect of the legislation. He said: 
I have stated previously that I believe that the average scientist today has a strong recognition of the social implication of the work that he is doing. If we were to decide that the Organisation should conduct a survey into the social consequences of its particular activities in each of its fields, we certainly would need to expand the Organisation to in excess of double the size that it is today. 
He then went on to give a very good illustration of looking at astronomers when he was a small boy. He made the point that when people were looking at the stars then they did not think that 30 years later their work would produce the basis of our whole communications system. I think that that is a pretty good example. The point made by the honourable gentleman is certainly taken on board by the Minister and I refer him to Senate  Hansard  from which I have quoted. 
I refer also to some of the remarks of the honourable member for Adelaide and, to a lesser extent, the honourable member for Prospect on this legislation. In fact, a large portion of what the honourable member for Adelaide had to say dealt with industrial research and development and not with scientific matters. He also made much of what an Australian Labor Party government would do. Although we do not want to intrude politics into this debate- the honourable member for Prospect described it as a debate akin to a debate about motherhood- the fact is that when we were in government in 1967 we introduced these incentives, and the current legislation was introduced in1976 in the term of the Fraser Government. The honourable member for Adelaide was really speaking in his capacity as shadow Minister for Industry and Commerce. I think that he acknowledged that. If the honourable member watches what appears on the Notice Paper in the next few days he may find that he will have to use his speech again. 
The Government announced in the Budget that certain amendments would be made to existing industrial research and development legislation. I think that it is appropriate to say something about this aspect because of the time devoted to it by the honourable member for Adelaide. Since the Budget an increase in the level of the commencement grants provided to encourage small and medium sized firms to gain an appreciation of the benefit of industrial research and development has been operating under administrative action. This matter was acknowledged by the honourable member for Adelaide but I do not think he actually realised that the increase is now operative. The existing 25 per cent of eligible company expenditure up to an annual limit of $15,000 has been increased to a level of 50 per cent up to an annual limit of $25,000 and provision has been made for the introduction of progressive settlement of the grants. Shortly we will be introducing legislation which will increase the level of the project grants provided to encourage firms to undertake research projects assessed to have a high technical and commercial merit from the existing 25 per cent of company expenditure, subject to an overall annual limit on grant payments to any company of $250,000 to 50 per cent, lifting the amount to $500,000. 
Also operating by administrative action is the provision of funds to enable the undertaking of public interest industrial research projects directed towards encouraging the commercial development of important innovations by Australian industry. Shortly the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  will be introducing amendments which will simplify the procedures required of companies in making applications for grants to allow for reduced administrative effort on the part of the companies and the Australian Industrial Research and Development Incentives Board, particularly in respect of collaborative projects. I have put those comments on record because some of the criticism of honourable gentlemen was actually in regard to matters that were in the process of being developed. 
The honourable member for Calare made a couple of points that I think I should pick up. He mentioned that he was very much in support of the philosophy of the CSIRO having the capacity to enter into a relationship with a commercial partner. I think I should place on record the conditions that must exist where the primary purpose is one of technology transfer. The partner, not the CSIRO, would be making the profit and the CSIRO would withdraw once its primary purpose is achieved. The honourable member for Calare also expressed some concern about research on rural and primary industry being reviewed. He said that he hoped that levies collected from the rural industries would be continued to be used on the rural industries. In that context I reassure the honourable gentleman by quoting again two parts of the speech of the Minister for Science. The Minister said: 
I want to reinforce the point that no changes to existing practices, particularly where they are relevant to the wide range of industries, both primary and secondary, that CSIRO serves, will be undertaken without sensitive and full consultation with those concerned. 
Later in the statement the Minister went on to say: 
CSIRO will continue to compete for rural industry research funds but in the light of the inquiry's findings funding from such sources will not be the major component of any broad area research program. 
On behalf of the Minister and the Government, once again I thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I appreciate the remarks that have come from both sides of the House. I thank the Opposition for giving its genuine and full support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department owns, and operates 4 computers. The Defence Service Homes Corporation has purchased and is completing the installation of a separate system of 5 computers- one in each mainland capital city. 
The purchase cost of each computer, including associated peripheral and terminal equipment, is: 
IBM 360/65- $2.6m (this includes a notional cost of $1.3m for the acquisition, on transfer, of certain equipment from the Departments of Health and Social Security); 
IBM360/50-$1.9m; 
IBM System/7-New South Wales, $0. 12m. Victoria, $0.12m; 
ICL 2903 owned by Defence Service Homes Corporation- New South Wales, $0.14m. Victoria, $0.15m. Queensland, $0.10m. South Australia, $0.09m. Western Australia, $0.09m. 
The computers are used for the following major purposes: 
the IBM 360/65 and 360/50 run systems which provide control for entitlement claims processing, pension calculation with associated payments, allowances and reviews, control of file movements, authorisation of hospital and medical treatment, control for inpatient admissions and discharges, clinical record location, outpatient recording and laboratory test processing; 
the IBM System/7 computers are used in laboratory test processing ; 
the ICL 2903 computer system is required for the administration of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. 
The nature of the data stored is as follows: 
the IBM 360/65 and 360/50 hold personal data pertaining to Repatriation systems; 
the IBM System/7 computers hold laboratory test results; 
the ICL 2903 computers hold financial and personal data for the Defence Service Homes Corporation. 
The IBM 360/65 and 360/50 are interconnected via shared peripheral disk storage. The IBM System/7 are each connected by telephone line to the IBM 360/65 computer. 
Access is restricted to authorised departmental staff who access data, at their workplace, during the course of their day-to-day activities. Certain information is provided to other organizations as detailed in the answer to Question 2251. 
The operation of the departmental systems on the IBM 360/65, 360/50 and System/7, computers has resulted in a saving of 141 positions. In addition to this there is a proportional saving in workload in other positions, amounting to notional savings in excess of 20 positions. A departmental system currently under development will save, when introduced, a further 54 positions plus a notional saving of 7 positions. The installation of the Defence Service Homes system is expected to result in a saving of 35 positions. In summary, staff savings achieved or soon to be realised total some 257 against an ADP staff of 109 officers. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and section 50B of the Defence Service Homes Act 19181 present the annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. An interim report prepared by the Australian Housing Corporation was presented on 25 August 1977. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act 1976 and section 50B of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918 I present the annual report of the Defence Service Homes Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. The delay in presenting this report and that of the Australian Housing Corporation, which I have just presented, is due to problems which arose in connection with the form of the financial statements which are required to be presented with the reports. Notification of the approval of the Minister for Finance to the form of the statements was received on 10 August 1978. The report of the Auditor-General on the financial statements is dated 30 October 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim report of the Defence Service Homes Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for Science, for the information of honourable members I present a report entitled 'Australian Biological Resources Study 1973-78', together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science on the report. 
On behalf of the Minister for Health, pursuant to section 44 of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Act 1961 I present the report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
On behalf of the Minister for Health, for the information of honourable members I present the report of the Fawnmac group of companies for the year ended 30 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to Question No. 2090  (Hansard,  House of Representatives, 17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Department of Productivity: Liaison with States  (Question No.  2112) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
) See answer to ( 1 ). 
Pursuant to section 19 of the Anglo-Australian Telescope Agreement Act 1970, I present the report of the AngloAustralian Telescope Board for the year ended 30 June 1978, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  relating to this report. 
by leave- On 1 June 1978 the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure tabled the report on its inquiry into the Defence Service Homes Scheme. Honourable members will be aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has assured standing committees of the Parliament that there will be a ministerial statement, within six months of presentation of a standing committee report, on the action the Government proposes to take. I am now in a position to make that statement on behalf of the Government. The report has been carefully considered by the Government which has also had the benefit of the views of an interdepartmental committee. Before dealing with the individual recommendations I should like, on behalf of the Government, to thank the Standing Committee for conducting its examination of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. As the Committee itself said, its inquiry represents the first in-depth and searching examination since the Scheme was established 60 years ago. 
Recommendation 1 of the Standing Committee called for the appointment of a qualified person from outside the Public Service to assess the relative effectiveness of programs designed to attract persons into and retain them in the Defence Force and for methods to be devised to enable continuing measurement or assessment of the effectiveness of these programs. This would no doubt facilitate decisions being taken as to whether Defence Service Homes loans should continue to be available to members of the peacetime Defence Force, as one segment of an overall conditions of service package. The Government accepts that the availability of Defence Service Homes loans is a valued condition of service and, as such, it could have a beneficial effect on attraction and retention rates in the armed Services. To measure its effectiveness by comparison with all other conditions of service is another matter. Past endeavours by psychology research units and operational analysis teams have been inconclusive in establishing a direct co-relation between conditions of service at large, or any one of them in particular, and reasons for discharge and-or resignation. It is worth nothing, however, that Service housing is a major source of dissatisfaction. 
The recommendation of the Standing Committee not only envisages an initial assessment being made, but also the development of methods to enable continuing measurement and assessment In view of the far reaching and costly nature of such a proposal and the likelihood that the results will be inconclusive, the Government has decided not to take up this recommendation at the present time. In arriving at this conclusion the Government was conscious that the Committee of Reference for Defence Force Pay and the Defence Conditions of Service Committee machinery is available to monitor continually the overall package of pay and conditions with a view to ensuring their currency in present day conditions. In its second recommendation, the Standing Committee called for a restatement and explanation of the objectives of the Defence Service Homes Scheme. Although the purposes of all amendments to the legislation have been explained at the time of introduction, a statement of the kind recommended by the Standing Committee is long overdue. 
The original War Service Homes Scheme was established shortly after the First World War to assist returned servicemen and their dependants towards home ownership. Since then the eligibility provisions of the Scheme have been expanded from time to time to include persons who served in the Second World War and later warlike operations in which Australian Forces were involved and, since 1973, certain members of the peacetime Defence Force. It is clear that there are now two broad categories of persons eligible for the benefits of the Defence Service Homes Scheme; namely, those who served, or volunteered to service, overseas in wartime and those who serve in peacetime. The Defence Service Homes Scheme exists as part of a wide range of benefits available to servicemen and exservicemen and its current objectives can be defined in their simplest form as: To provide a housing-specific benefit, firstly, to discharge the nation's obligation to those who served, or volunteered to serve, overseas in wartime and, second, to attract and retain regular servicemen in the Defence Force in peacetime. 
I emphasise that these objectives are subject to review and revision from time to time. The Standing Committee's third recommendation proposed that the long tide of the Defence Service Homes Act should be amended. The Government is not prepared to adopt the long title suggested by the Committee but has agreed that this technical issue might be taken up with Parliamentary Counsel on the next occasion amending legislation is drafted. 
Perhaps the most innovative and challenging proposal put forward in the 60 years existence of the scheme is the Committee's fourth recommendation, namely, the amendment of the Defence Service Homes Act to allow eligible persons to choose to receive either a housing loan or a cash grant which would also be used to acquire a residential dwelling. The Government is attracted to the principle of offering a range of choices wherever possible so that persons concerned may make their own judgments as to which option is most suitable to their particular circumstances. However, it is not prepared, for a number of reasons, to adopt the recommendation put forward. It is difficult to equate the value to borrowers of the current loan in terms of a cash grant, and to see how relativity between loans and grants could be maintained under an optional grant scheme. Depending on the assumptions made, arguments may be advanced for grants as little as $3,000 and as much as $5,000 with similar cost to the Commonwealth per beneficiary on a discounted cash flow basis. On the other hand, the calculation of a grant of equivalent benefit to a person seeking to acquire a home indicates that an amount of the order of $7,000 would be required. A grant of this size is beyond the resources of the Government at the present time. Further, as a matter of principle, the Government cannot accept the proposal by the Standing Committee to hypothecate to grants under the Defence Service Homes Scheme any administrative savings that might be achieved in future by the introduction of a grant option. Since recommendations five and six are entirely dependent upon the acceptance of recommendation four, I do not propose to deal with them. I shall refer to recommendation seven when dealing with recommendation 13. 
In recommendation eight the Standing Committee proposed a new method of identifying the extent of the concession involved in Defence Service Homes loans. The concession or interest subsidy is represented by the difference between the interest charged by the Defence Service Homes Corporation on its outstanding loans and the interest payable by the Corporation on the capital appropriations it has received over the years. Since 1975 when the concept of identifying a measure of subsidy was introduced, interest has been payable on the corpus of initial capital vested in the Corporation at the weighted average of long-term security rates over the previous 25 years. Capital drawings from Consolidated Revenue in each subsequent year attract interest at the rate applying to the longest securities of the most recent issue before the drawing. The rate of interest to be applied to the capital of the Corporation is a matter for determination by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Robinson).  The Government agrees with the basic approach of the Standing Committee in seeking a 'rolling over' of the corpus of initial capital but it believes that the Minister for Finance might well consider some modification of the Committee's formula. The Government believes there is no parallel between the Corporation and the major home finance institutions which pay interest at current rates on all depositors ' balances or shareholders ' funds. On the other hand, it sees merit in arrangements whereby funds available to the Corporation through the repayment of loans would attract the same rate of interest as funds appropriated each year from Consolidated Revenue. 
In its ninth recommendation, the Standing Committee dealt with staffing arrangements with the Defence Services Homes Corporation. As the reductions proposed by the Standing Committee have already been exceeded through the Corporation 's ongoing manpower review programs, no specific action by the Government is necessary. I think we should acknowledge the work of the Standing Committee in that respect. In recommendation 10 the Standing Committee made specific suggestions on improving performance and minimising costs in the use of computers. The Government is satisfied that the equipment purchased by the Corporation, and the uses to which it will be put, are consistent with both the Corporation's requirements and the guidelines established by the Public Service Board. Accordingly, it does not propose to adopt the recommendation for a further study. However, the Government recognises that there is potential for cost savings if the Corporation's computer facilities could be shared with other Departments. The Department of Veterans' Affairs will be liaising with the Public Service Board in this regard. 
In recommendation 11, the Standing Committee called for an examination of the costs involved in collecting instalments from borrowers, particularly the cost incurred in providing the faculty of payment at any post office. The Government endorses the principle of user payment, but difficulties would arise for many borrowers if the long standing arrangements for payments through post offices were withdrawn or altered. On balance, the Government has decided that it will continue for the time being to make available this facility to persons who have earned eligibility for a defence service homes loan. The publication of specific physical performance data related to the operational efficiency of the Defence Service Homes Corporation was the subject of the Standing Committee's twelfth recommendation. The Government believes the details the Standing Committee has suggested for publication are in the category of information that is more suitable for internal management purposes than for publication. However, it agrees that the publication of some indicative measures of efficiency is desirable and the Corporation will publish information of this kind, in future annual reports. 
The Standing Committee's thirteenth recommendation called for legislative changes to permit persons who obtain loans under the Defence Service Homes Scheme to insure the properties with the insurer of their choice. This Government subscribes to the principle of freedom of choice and it has accordingly decided to adopt the Committee's recommendation. Legislation will be introduced next year to amend the Defence Service Homes Act as necessary. I mention in the content of this decision and the Committee 's recommendation 7- that is the recommendation dealing with the distribution of a pamphlet on new options for eligible personsthat immediately after the passage of amending legislation all applicants for a loan will be notified of their right of choice of insurer and all current borrowers will be so informed in advance of the expiration of their existing insurance cover. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I take this opportunity to refer briefly to another matter which, whilst not directly related to the Committee's report, does have a bearing  on the Defence  Service Homes Scheme. Honourable members will recall that one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into the Citizen Military Force was that the provisions of the Defence Service Homes Scheme be extended to include Citizen Force soldiers as an incentive to service. The Government has considered this proposal on the basis that any benefit of this type would have application to the Reserve elements of all three services. A considerable range of pay and related matters has already been implemented as a result of the Millar report and, in current circumstances, the Government has decided not to extend the Defence Service Homes Scheme to members of the Reserve forces. I present the following paper: 
I realise that it is extremely late, a quarter past one in the morning. Nobody likes his bed more than I do, except perhaps the Deputy Speaker and one or two others, but it would be entirely inappropriate if I did not respond in at least reasonable detailwithout spending a lot of time in doing so- to the matters that have been raised in this debate by honourable members, whom I thank for their participation. 
Contrary to what has been said by almost every  speaker,  the Government did examine this report very carefully. The honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  expressed his dissatisfaction but what he was really expressing was disappointment that all of the recommendations were not adopted. There is a difference. In fact, contrary to what has been said by almost every  speaker,  if some of the recommendations that we have rejected were adopted they would create great and justifiable dissatisfaction amongst both servicemen and exservicemen. That ought to be acknowledged. I hope that I shall be excused for leaving the remarks of the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  until last, because they I think express the same views, and I need to attempt to explain what we have done. What the honourable member for Reid said had very little to do with the statement Unfortunately, he is not now in the chamber, but no doubt he will read my remarks. 
I do not criticise or blame him. If I were in his position I would be home too. He said that $15,000 did not go far enough. We agree, but it is a queston of what funds are available. I would remind the House that when the Labor Party was in government it extended eligibility for participation in the war service homes scheme to all who served, as an inducement for people to enlist. Thus, hundreds and hundreds more people became eligible for a loan. The loan was no longer based on war service alone. Participation was offered as an inducement to people to enlist Thus, the money available has not gone as far as it would otherwise have done. It should not be suggested that- setting aside all the obvious arguments about inflation- it is entirely the fault of this Government that the funds are not there. That is all that I would like to say about the remarks of the honourable member for Reid. 
The honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  raised one or two valid points which I will undertake to refer to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann).  Much of what he had to say concerned defence forces homeshomes for people in the services- which has nothing to do with the present statement. I think that the honourable member acknowledged that fact. We would admit that the quality of some of the homes that are owned by some of the defence forces is not as high as it ought to be. A significant effort has been made to update some of those homes. In fact, in recent times we have been able to return to the States hundreds of apartments and dwellings that we would all regard as not being satisfactory for service people or other people, if it comes to that. That is really quite irrelevant to a consideration of this statement. 
I would like now to discuss, in justification of what the Government has done, one or two of the remarks that were made by the  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee. The first question concerned the recommendation of the Committee that some person should be engaged from outside the Public Service to tell us how we should improve recruitment procedures. The wording used was: 
To assess the relative effectiveness of programs designed to attract persons into, and retain them in, the services. 
The Government rejected it. In the first place, there is a continuing committee within the Department of Defence which is called the Conditions of Service Committee. It does not just sit one day and go home the next. It examines the conditions of service on a daily basis. 
-This Committee sits all the time. Conditions of service are being changed all the time. So this is an ongoing process. Furthermore, in recent times- in fact when the Labor Party was in Government- a committee of inquiry- the Kerr/Woodward Committee- was appointed to do exactly the job that was suggested by the Expenditure Committee. The work of that Committee cost several hundred thousands of dollars. Some of its suggestions that were implemented have created more problems than they have solved. The Government believes as I believe that an inquiry of the sort that has been recommended by the Expenditure Committee would be equally inconclusive. That is the straight answer to that direct recommendation and the suggestions put forward by the Committee's  Chairman  and  Deputy Chairman.  Cost is quite significant. 
The second recommendation was adopted in toto. More than one recommendation was adopted, and that was one of the criticisms of the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  The third recommendation was the subject of some criticism by the  Chairman.  I accept the criticism because I can understand that for a committee that has put as much work into its report as this Committee has put there is a natural disappointment when all of its recommendations are not adopted. There are good reasons for those recommendations not being adopted. 
-I acknowledge that perhaps the english that was used in the statement was not as expansive as it could have been. I am attempting now to put that right. In dealing with the third recommendation, the long title of the Defence Service Homes Act, the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  said- I think I quote him correctly; he said it in a somewhat grudging way, if I might say so- that this was to be left to the Parliamentary Counsel. 
-I thought that it was a very good and appropriate speech but the fact is that it is being left to the Minister for Veterans' Affairs and he will consult with the Parliamentary Counsel. In due course an amendment will be made. I think that really that is a victory for the Committee and not a rejection, as the honourable member for Lilley suggested. 
Let me illustrate the sort of problem that we came across in the recommendation of the Committee that the Act should be changed to read that the Act should assist eligible persons to acquire a residential dwelling. That is the 'short' long title that was suggested by the Committee. Even that is deficient in a sense if one takes it in semantic terms. I would like to call a 'residential dwelling' a 'home'. The matter has been looked at very carefully. I have no doubt that in due course that long title will be amended. The Committee really won on that matter too. 
The worst thing that one can do is to rush things and make mistakes. It does not matter a tinker's benediction to exservicemen whether it has a long title or a short title. Really, in the final washup, that does not matter at all. 
-That is what I would have thought. Why not just call them 'homes'? Why call them 'residential dwellings'? I think I am getting some support. The fourth recommendation- I think the Government's failure to accept it offended the Committee mostsuggested that there should be a cash grant in lieu of the existing mortgage arrangement or the existing loan. I can assure the House that there is a general apprehension amongst servicemen that that recommendation should ever be adopted. 
That is another matter. As an option, that is not such a problem for servicemen. It would not be a goer at this stage because, as it is now, people have to wait for a loan and for a grant. What servicemen want- this is one of the odd occasions when I agree with the honourable member for Reid- is not a cash grant and not even a fast loan but, rather, a bigger loan. I think that probably most honourable members would agree with that. I believe that servicemen would prefer to obtain a higher loan even if they have to pay a slightly higher interest rate. That is what servicemen want. 
I know it does not. I am saying what servicemen want. They do not want a cash grant and they especially do not want a low cash grant. The Government is not in a position to make a grant available which would be sufficient to bridge the deposit gap. So far as the optional and non-optional aspects are concerned, there would be no savings, certainly in the short term, in respect of this arrangement because they would still have to be parallel. 
-The honourable gentleman will have to put that question in a way that I can understand. I do not hear servicemen complaining about this. What they complain about is that they cannot get the loan, that they have to wait and that it is not big enough. Consequently there are not as many servicemen, certainly not those in the lower and middle income groups, who can afford to buy a home because the grant is not big enough. That is what servicemen care about. They do not want the cash grant because if some future government increased the loan those who have taken the cash grant today would then miss out on getting a bigger cash grant. 
It would help with the deposit gap if it was a decent cash grant. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I acknowledge that it is as much - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics are not kept in the form requested by the honourable member. 
Manually recorded disease indices are maintained in each State Branch of the Depanment of Veterans' Affairs. 
A search of these indices would require a considerable, and expensive, manual effort. 
It would also be difficult to identify relevant cases as the indices are kept in different terms from those used in the question. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Defence Report 1978. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to cany out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of stage 1 development, Bonegilla army site, Vic 
The proposal is for the construction of new permanent living, working and recreational facilities to accommodate the Army Apprentices School at present located in sub-standard accommodation at Balcombe, Victoria; the School of Military Survey presently located in temporary accommodation at Bonegilla, Victoria; and recruit training for the Women's Royal Australian Army Corps, presently in temporary accommodation at George's Heights, Sydney, New South Wales. The estimated cost of the proposed works examined by the Committee was $29.5m at July 1978 prices. 
In reporting favourably on the proposal the Committee has made two recommendations. In recommendation 4 the Committee has recommended that the proposed 50 metre 9 lane swimming pool be heated and covered with some space for spectator seating at an estimated additional cost of $330,000. The objective of this recommendation is to ensure maximum utilisation of the pool for training and recreation purposes by the large number of Army personnel in the Bonegilla-Bandianna area. In the short time available before the House adjourns it is not possible to examine the full implications of this recommendation and confirm that it is acceptable. However, the merit of the recommendation is recognised and will be taken into consideration as the proposal is further developed. The Committee will be advised when a decision is taken. 
In recommendation 6 the Committee recommends that the Department of Construction should undertake a thorough examination of the proposal regarding project management put to the Committee by Civil and Civic Pty Ltd. This proposal was examined in some detail by the Department during the course of the Committee's inquiry. The project management concepts put to the Committee by the company do not seem to add to the techniques that the Department has available to it and uses for the planning, design and construction of government works. The company's specific proposal in relation to Bonegilla is one which the Department has adopted previously, where appropriate, and is not new. However, I have asked the Department of Construction to examine the proposal in more detail. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows- 
No. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Circumstances have not arisen whereby (a) Departmental staff and (b) Ministerial staff have been authorised to travel on Concorde aircraft between the United States and the United Kingdom. Public Service Board approval would be required for such travel by Departmental staff and would be given only in exceptional circumstances. 
Not applicable, see ( 1 ) above. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided by the Minister for Productivity in answer to Question No. 1794, House of Representatives  Hansard,  23 November 1978, page 3351. 
As required by section 7 of the Representation Act I present a copy of the certificate of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer setting forth the numbers of the people of the Commonwealth and of the several States in accordance with the latest statistics of the Commonwealth. For the information of honourable members I also present a copy of the notification made by the Chief Australian Electoral Officer under section 1 1 of the Representation Act setting forth the number of members of the House of Representatives to be chosen in the several States. As determined, there has been no change in the representation entitlement of any State except Western Australia. It has been determined that Western Australia, which is represented by 10 members of the House of Representatives, is now entitled to the representation of 1 1 members. Section 25 (2) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act provides therefore that a redistribution in Western Australia is mandatory. 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Productivity to Question No. 1794 in the House of Representatives  Hansard on  23 November 1978, page 3351. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The Prime Minister has already provided detailed information on the 20 June 1978 auction sale of furniture held in store and which earlier had been used in the Prime Minister's Lodge- see answer to Senate Question No. 591  (Hansard,  26 September 1978, pages 954-5). 
In addition, I can inform the honourable member that the following items were withdrawn from the auction: 
Pair brass candle holders 
Pair brass table lamps, pair wall mounted brass light fittings 2 crystal chandeliers 1 Shepherds wooden ice cream churn 3 bedside tables, 1 chest of drawers, 1 table, 1 cheval mirror, 2 lamp stands extendable card table 2 antique wooden statues 
Grandfather clock 4 period dining chairs 
The withdrawal of these items followed consultation between the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Home Affairs. The two statuettes and the grandfather clock are now held in store by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet pendingfurther investigation into their history. The other articles have been transferred to the Department of Home Affairs which is responsible for fostering the collection of items of national and historical importance. I am informed that some of these will be displayed at Lanyon Homestead under the auspices of theDepartment of the Capital Territory. The remainder will be added to the national collection being developed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Apprenticeships have been offered within two Divisions of the Department of Administrative Services only. There are no readily available records of the number of persons who have been offered apprenticeships but the number of first year apprentices actually employed d uring each of the last 6 years is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, no showers have been provided for women in the Commonwealth Parliament Offices, whereas one has been provided for men on the 12th floor. 
There are no specific hours of duty prescribed for electorate secretaries. However senators and members would expect their staff to work such hours to suit the senators' and members' convenience. 
Yes, when the proposed alterations to the Commonwealth Parliament Offices are carried out. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The private vehicle allowance payable to members who use their private vehicles to travel to or from Canberra on parliamentary business is authorised by Section 3 of Remuneration Tribunal Determination No. 1978-79. Clause 3.2 of that Section provides that the allowance shall be paid at Austraiian Public Service rates then current. A review of the rates was considered by the Public Service Board and staff organisations meeting as the Joint Council (a consultative body established under the Public Service Act) on 6/7 December 1978 and the Board advised that action would be taken to implement new rates. As soon as they are promulgated they will of course be applied by my Department to claims by Senators and Members. 
The determination of the rates is not a matter for my Depanment but for the Joint Council and the Public Service Board. The Secretary of the Public Service Board has supplied the information that the last increase in rates, i.e. to the current levels, occurred in 1976. Using the 6 cylinder rate as an example (rates are specified for 4, 6 and 8 cylinder vehicles) the increase on that occasion was 1.10c per km, from 12.90c per km to 14c per km. Of the 14c, 2.76c was attributable to petrol costs and 2.59c to depreciation. The proposed new rate for 6 cylinder cars is 1 4.20c of which 3.04c relates to petrol costs and 4.97c to depreciation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) No indices to  Hansard  are prepared by my Department or agencies under my control. I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answers to Question No. 2638  (Hansard,  21 November 1978, page 3156) and Question No. 3065 which detail the arrangements for the preparation and publication of the  Hansard  indices. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
It is not the practice of this Government to give information which may have the effect of endangering security. 
VIP Aircraft  (Question No. 1401) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
All suppliers of goods or services to the Commonwealth, as is the case with the business community generally, are required to comply with the provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974. Section 45 of this Act prohibits contracts, arrangements or understandings that have the purpose or effect of fixing, controlling or maintaining prices of goods or services. Section 45 also prohibits contracts, arrangements and understandings that substantially lessen competition in a market in Australia. 
Commonwealth Government departments should, in considering tenders, be alert to the possibility of collusive arrangements and, upon suspecting collusion in breach of the Trade Practices Act, should refer the matter for investigation to the Trade Practices Commission. 
Finance Regulation 53 requires notification of contracts arranged valued above $1,000 in the Commonwealth  Gazelle,  excluding those exceptions specified in the Regulation. The Regulations also provide for the disclosure of additional information to unsuccessful or potential tenderers and other genuinely interested parties at the discretion of the Chief Officer of the Department concerned or the  Chairman  of the relevant tender board. The availability of such information, which can include unit rates, provides a degree of protection against possible collusive practices by prospective suppliers to the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that it is not the general practice of Commonwealth departments to place schedules offenders with prices blanked out on nodes boards. 
One department, the Department of Housing and Construction, has indicated it does list tenders received on notice boards shortly after tenders have closed. These show tenderers names only. When acceptance of a tender is approved, the tender reference number, description of the supplies, value of the contract and the name and address of the contractor are published in the Commonwealth  Gazette  (see answer to Question 1635 in the House of Representatives  Hansard  on 17 November 1978, page 3063). 
Two types of schedules are placed on the notice board of some departments. These schedules list: 
tenders currently being invited, including the schedule number and closing date; 
details of contracts arranged. This list is a copy from the Commonwealth  Gazette  of the past week's notification of contracts arranged. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The general practice of departments is to require all tender forms and accompanying letters to be numbered and initialled by each member of the opening committee. 
I am advised that it is the general practice of departments that all schedules of technical data attached to tenders be initialled, except in the case of the Department of Housing and Construction. The practice of that Department is to place the tender number on each schedule only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Purchasing Division of my Department will not accept for consideration a tender received after the due closing time unless the postmark clearly indicates that the tender was mailed before the nominated closing time. All other tenders are regarded as late, are ruled informal, and returned unopened to the tenderer. Some Commonwealth purchasing bodies receive late tenders and admit them for consideration in some instances. The procedure normally followed is that the tender is registered, on receipt, as a 'late tender' and subsequently taken into consideration only if there is a clear advantage to the Commonwealth in doing so, such as a significantly lower price, and that the relevant tender board or delegate of the Minister is satisfied that there was no malpractice or impropriety associated with acceptance of the late tender for consideration. 
There is no general regulation in regard to acceptance or rejection of late tenders and the responsibility is in some cases vested in appropriate individual officers. 
The Purchasing Division of my Department is continuing to follow the strict interpretation of 'late tenders' outlined in (2) above. My Department has, however, recognised the need for a common approach in this area and has been engaged in consultations with other Commonwealth departments with a view to introducing standardised procedures in regard to late tenders. It is expected that the Government will consider this matter in the near future. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Refer to answer to Question No. 1 640 in today 's  Hansard. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Executive power of the Commonwealth under Section 61 of the Constitution and the Administrative Arrangements Orders made from time to time by the GovernorGeneralinCouncil enables Ministers to enter into contracts for items that are within the respective responsibilities of Ministers. A 
Minister may delegate his power in regard to contracts to a specific public servant by instrument in writing. 
Some departments and authorities have power to enter into contracts under Regulations made pursuant to their enabling legislation. For example, section 174 of the Regulations under the Repatriation Act provides that: 
The Commission may enter into contracts for any purpose connected with or incidental to the administration of the Act or of these Regulations including contracts for the purchase or sale of any commodities. 
Notwithstanding, the courts have accepted that a statutory power is not necessary for an appropriate officer to enter into a contract in the ordinary course of administering a recognised part of a government's activities. Contracts made on behalf of the Crown by its officers in the established course of their authority and duty are Crown contracts and as such bind the Crown. The nature and extent of the officer's authority may be defined by constitutional practice or express instructions, or may be inferred fromthe nature of the office or the duties entrusted to the officer. If any statute regulating a particular function of government expressly or impliedly governs an officer's power of contracting, then all statutory conditions must be observed. A discussion of the principles involved appears in  New South Wales  v.  Bardolph  (1934) 52 CLR 455, especially at pages 496, 502 and 508. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Terrica House, Adelaide Street; Commonwealth Centre, Adelaide Street; Taxation Building, Adelaide Street; Commonwealth Centre, Ann Street; Statistics House, Ann Street; Survey Depot, Bowen Street; Naval Staff Office, Edward Street; Recruiting House, Mary Street; Customs House, Queen Street; Coronation House, Edward Street. 
(a) 172 square meters, Commonwealth Centre, Adelaide Street (to be occupied in February 1979). 
901.90 square metres, Recruiting House (sale of this building is being negotiated ). 
42,440.99 square metres. 
National Bank House, Adelaide and Creek Streets; Jackman House, 247 Adelaide Street; 294 Adelaide Street, 294 Adelaide Street; Phoenix House, 333 Adelaide Street; Professional Suites, 138 Albert Street; Comalco House, Ann and George Streets; MIM Building, 160 Ann Street; ANZ Centre, Creek and Queen Streets; AMMI Building, 97 Creek Street; Eagle House, 82 Eagle Street; Australia House, 145 Eagle Street; 167 Eagle Street, 167 Eagle Street; Watkins Place, 288 Edward Street; Commonwealth Bank Building, King George Square; ADA Building, 24 Lt Edward Street; T. &amp; G. Building, Queen and Albert Streets; Prudential Building, 6 Queen Street; Hibernian Building, 246 Queen Street; Ansett Centre, 27-35 Turbott Street; London Assurance House, 13-17 Wharf Street; City Mutual Building, 307 Queen Street; Estates House, 127 Creek Street. 
The total rent cost of leased accommodation in Brisbane is $2,274,881 per annum. Lease terms for the individual leases are regarded as confidential between the lessor and the Commonwealth. 
2,007.66 square metres in 294 Adelaide Street (to be occupied in January 1 979 when outfitting is completed ). 
N.B. The above information refers only to buildings for civil and defence departments and does not include buildings owned or leased by statutory authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) (a) 143 Bayliss Street, Wagga Wagga; (b) 89 square metres; (c) *; (d) Department of Employment and Youth Affairs; (e) Original lease commenced 9 December 1974; (f)3. 
(a) Corner Bayliss and Morgan Streets; (b) 1,472.98 square metres; (c) *; (d) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (e) Lease is to commence on completion of new building i.e., about December 1979; (f) 120. This lease will permit consolidation of leases presently held at 176 Baylis Street and 48 Fitzmaurice Street. 
(a) 176 Baylis Street; (b) 260.13 square metres; (c) *; (d) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (e) Original lease commenced in 1953; (f) 16. 
(a) 48 Fitzmaurice Street- occupancy under two separate leases. Building is Strata titled. 
Lease 1: (b)253.91 square metres; (c) *; (d) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (e) Original lease commenced in 1974; (f) See (v)  (f). 
Lease 2: (v) (a) see (iv) (a); (b) 130.99 square metres; (c) *; (d) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (e) Original lease commenced 9 March 1977;  (0  Total number of employees within this building is S3. 
(a) 54-60 Baylis Street; (b) 70 square metres; (c) *; (d) Australian Broadcasting Commission; (e) Original lease commenced in 1958; (f)2. 
* Note: The total rent cost of leased accommodation in Wagga Wagga is $128,500 per annum. Lease terms for the individual leases are regarded as confidential between the lessor and the Commonwealth. 
(i) (a) 205 Baylis Street and Thompson and O'Reilly Streets; (b) 6,564 square metres; (c) Department of Housing and Construction and Department of Administrative Services; (d) 23. 
(a) 69 Baylis Street; (b) 891.5 square metres; (c) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 26. 
(a) 47 Fitzmaurice Street; (b) 360 square metres; (c) Australian Telecommunications Commission; (d) 5. 
(a) Station Place; (b) 720.8 square metres; (c) Department of Employment and Youth Affairs; (d) 1 5. 
(i) 205 Baylis Street purchased in several acquisitions, including improvements, between 1950-70 for use by the then Department of Works and future Commonwealth Offices. The construction of the Commonwealth Offices has been approved in the 1 978-79 Civil Works Program. 
69 Baylis Street purchased in November 1957 including improvements for use by former Postmaster-General's Department. No details are available in respect of furnishings. 
47 Fitzmaurice Street purchased in September 1972 for extensions to the telephone exchange. It has however been used as a Telephone Sales Office. Purchase included two storey former banking chambers. No details are available of furnishings. 
Station Place purchased in June 1953 for construction of temporary offices for the former Department of Labour and National Service. Construction was sponsored by the user Department and no details of cost or authorisation of these offices and furnishings are available to my Department. 
Note: The gross purchase price of all buildings owned by the Commonwealth in Wagga Wagga is $200,248. The purchase price for individual properties is regarded as confidential between the vendor and the Commonwealth. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the final report of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for certain amendments to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 consequential upon the passage of the Norfolk Island Bill 1 978. Clause 2 of this Bill provides for the Act to come into effect at the same time as the Norfolk Island Act. 
The Remuneration Tribunals Act currently provides for the Remuneration Tribunal to make determinations in respect of an office of member of a legislative assembly of an internal territory and any office in or in connection with such an assembly that can be held only by a member of that assembly. Norfork Island, being an external territory, is accordingly not covered by the Remuneration Tribunal Act as it now stands. 
However, clause 66 of the Norfolk Island Bill makes provision for the Remuneration Tribunal to determine remuneration for members of the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly and has effect subject to the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973. Consequently, to enable the Remuneration Tribunal to cover Norfolk Island it is necessary to amend the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 and clause 3 of this Bill removes the limitation of that Tribunal's jurisdiction to only internal territorial legislative assemblies, by specifically including the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Innes)  adjourned. 
I will treat this question also as being on notice and will obtain the information for the honourable gentleman as soon as possible. 
I wonder whether it would be appropriate, since the honourable member for Prospect has raised the question of fees and payments to  Mr Miller,  to answer the question which the honourable member for Melbourne directed to my colleague the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Australian Housing Corporation Act 1975 and section 50B of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918 I present a further copy of the annual report of the Australian Housing Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1976. This version is in substitution for the copy which I presented on 2 1 November 1978 and which contained certain printing errors. 
Pursuant to section 48 of the Defence Service Homes Corporation Act 1976 and section 50B of the Defence Service Homes Act 1918, 1 present a further copy of the annual report of the Defence Service Homes Corporation for the year ended 30 June 1977. This version is in substitution for the copy which I presented on 21 November 1978 and which contained certain printing errors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Commonwealth car pool drivers of the Central Transport Authority operated by my Department use the West Gate Bridge when it is economic to do so. At present, pending examination of the Commonwealth's position, tolls are paid by the drivers and reimbursed from petty cash. 
Commonwealth drivers do not pay tolls on the Sydney Harbour Bridge. 

 - Mr Speaker, I seek your indulgence to correct certain cost figures that I gave to the House last Thursday, 22 February, in answer to a question. 
-I think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition makes the mistake that is made by many others in the community, and honourable members on the other side of the House, about the building industry. There is a tendency demonstrated here this afternoon to keep on comparing statistics of today with the statistics recorded during the boom years. This is a continuing tendency on that side of the House. It is no good to compare figures now with figures recorded in the boom years, which we hope will never come again. As far as last year was concerned, there has been a falling off in the approval rate and in the commencement rate. No one need or should deny that, but one must also remember that during the preceding years there was over-building of dwellings. For example, in South Australia, which is the State that I know best, we had vacant at the end of the Labor Government's reign a couple of thousand more houses than could possibly be filled. 
It was because the industry itself made a maladjustment. It is no good to keep on comparing these days with those of the boom period. I have not actually seen those figures yet. I have heard that they have been published but I have not yet examined them. Also, honourable members opposite might well have a look at the non-residential figures. They will find that there was a very steady growth from the moment we got into government, until this stage of the proceedings. I think that honourable members opposite do no good at all to keep on comparing the present figures with those for the boom years. They might also give us some credit for containing the cost of building. The cost when Labor went out of government suffered from an annual inflation rate of 20 per cent. Today it is about 7.7 per cent. The Opposition might give us some credit for getting the costs of inflation and interest rates down. If members of the Opposition keep yabbering away, I will have trouble in hearing what they are saying. They should give us some credit for making a reduction in the interest rates which makes it possible for more and more people to borrow money and buy houses. The cost of money has gone down since we have been in government. I think the Opposition does no service to the industry or to the nation by talking down any industry, including the housing industry. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to cany out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Garden Island Dockyard, New South Wales, workshop, amenities building and services. 
The proposal consists of five separate works each providing a functional facility for the dockyard as follows: A workshop building of 3 storeys to house facilities to service the new guided missile frigates; an amenities and refit control building of 2 storeys to house office accommodation for approximately 30 staff as well as showers, toilets, lunch and change rooms for 240 dockyard personnel; provision of rotary converter and reticulation to augment 60 hertz power supply to 3 wharves; provision of a 5 tonne electrical powered portal crane on the east dock wharf; extension of existing east dock wharf services to the southern end of the wharf with additional provision of general purpose electric light and power and ship-to-shore sewerage disposal services. A telephone ship-to-shore connection will also be provided. The estimated cost of the proposed work is $7.35m at October 1978 prices. The Committee in reporting favourably recommended the construction of the proposed works. Upon the concurrence of the House with this motion detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
in reply- I wish to make a couple of points in response to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes).  I cannot be absolutely certain, but I am 99.9 per cent certain that these works and all other works would have appeared in the defence works program at Budget time. In fact I am quite sure that they did. It is very often a question of such works not getting on to the program. But all works that are budgeted for are certainly on the public record. I would like to place that on record. 
Secondly, there is no question of Department of Defence officers giving their evidence in private; the hearings are in public. The honourable gentleman made the point that there are Opposition members on the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. I totally reject the suggestion that the matter is being hurried through. The evidence will be available in the Papers office when it is printed. It is all on the public record. The point that the honourable gentleman has made about hearings being held in confidence is not correct. 
Furthermore, the item appears on today's Notice Paper. There are times when members of the Public Works Committee who sit on both sides of the House debate the issue. I trust that the remarks I am making will not pre-empt any remarks which may be made by the  Chairman  of the Public Works Committee who is in the chamber. Certainly the matter is on the Notice Paper and there are Opposition members on the Committee. I defer to the superior knowledge of my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  on this matter, if not on all matters; but I am 99.9 per cent certain that the details of this project will be found in the White Paper on Australian Defence which was put down last year. I do not think there is substance in the charge that this project is being rushed through as a secret measure. 
The honourable gentleman did say that. He said that it was treated in confidence; that the defence officers always give their evidence in confidence. That is just not so and it is especially not so in this case. 
I did not mislead the House yesterday. I do not have the exact information which the Leader of the Opposition requires, but I will certainly obtain it and make it available to him. So far as my comments yesterday are concerned, I was speaking about, and making comparisons with, the boom period. This seemed to create some interest. The period to which I was referring was the period when the honourable member for Hughes was the Minister for Housing. For quite a significant section of that period the cost of housing went up each week by more than the average weekly wage. The cost of a modest home during that period increased by as much as $125 a week. The average wage was about $104. So, the remarks generally yesterday were accurate. I do not have the details the honourable gentleman seeks. I will certainly make them available. 
Pursuant to sub-section 5 (3b) of the Statutory Rules Publication Act 1903,I present a statement relating to the Trade 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for investigation and report: Construction of a research laboratory complex for CSIRO 's Division of Chemical Technology, Clayton, Victoria. 
This proposal is for construction of a complex to accommodate laboratories and administrative and support facilities for the Division of Chemical Technology, which, since 1974, has been housed in temporary accommodation in South Melbourne, Victoria. It is proposed that the laboratory complex be built on a site adjacent to Monash University which was acquired in 1961 for development as a major centre of Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation chemical research. The Divisions of Chemical Physics and Mineral Engineering were established on this site in 1966 and 1970 respectively. 
The facilities will comprise: Organic and general chemical laboratories; technical laboratories for large-scale research work; prototype industrial process bays for organic chemistry, general chemistry and pulp and paper; workshops and stores; administrative accommodation and support facilities. Provision will be made for on-site car parking and landscaping will complement existing site development. The estimated cost of the proposal at February 1979 prices is $9.1m. I table plans of the proposed work. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leaveHonourable members will recall that in May last year it was decided that the canteen arrangements for the Defence Force were to be changed. The Australian Services Canteens OrganisationASCO was asked to prepare a rundown program and the Services were asked to propose alternative arrangements for meeting their canteen needs. I am now pleased to inform the House that the Army and Air Force are to get a new canteen service. The new service, which is to be known as the Army and Air Force Canteen Service- AAFCANS-will replace the Australian Services Canteens Organisation, which was first set up in 1959. The Royal Australian Navy Canteen Service will continue to meet the needs of the Navy, but will be independent of the new service. The Army and Air Force Canteen Service will operate as a statutory authority under the direction of the Minister for Defence, as did ASCO. It will be governed by a single board of management which will replace the present Australian Services Council for Canteens and the ASCO board of management. 
The new Board is to comprise four senior Service officers, two each from the Army and Air Force; a senior Defence departmental officer; and two businessmen with experience in marketing and retailing. The managing director of the new organisation will also be a member of the board. The Board of Management will be supported by canteen committees at State, area, base and unit levels. These will be constituted to permit effective management participation by Army and Air Force personnel, including other ranks, and a high degree of local operational control at those levels. 
The scope of service of AAFCANS will be modified to take account of the generally greater accessibility that servicemen and women now have to goods and services from commercial sources. Customer service will be directed primarily to taverns and food services. Other facilities that can be provided within the resources allotted for those purposes will be offered. Specialist services on larger bases, such as dry cleaning, newsagencies and service stations, will be arranged on a concession basis where appropriate. AAFCANS will take over the operation of the ASCO community store facilities at Woomera. At a date to be fixed the obligation for Navy canteens and Service messes to purchase from the canteen service will be removed although they may opt to continue to do so if they wish, subject to the payment of appropriate administrative on-costs. Reliance will be placed on local purchase and delivery direct from suppliers rather than on bulk buying and storage. This will allow the extensive warehousing and distributive functions operated by ASCO to meet these requirements to "be eliminated and administrative overheads to be greatly reduced. 
The operation of the new service will be directed towards the making of profits that will permit the distribution of funds to Army and Air Force units and bases for amenities, morale and recreational purposes. Such distributions will be dependent on the results of local trading and will encourage soldiers and airmen to patronise their own canteens. ASCO staff required for the operation of AAFCANS will be employed without loss of continuity or benefits and those who become redundant will be given all practicable assistance in finding other employment. Redundant employees will be eligible for benefits under the Redundancy in Australian Government Employment scheme- known as the RAGE scheme- and the National Employment and Training scheme and action is being taken to see that contributors to the ASCO Superannuation Fund will not be disadvantaged. 
AAFCANS will take over the assets of ASCO to the extent necessary to carry on its new level of operations. Surplus capital funds remaining after responsibility has been transferred will be distributed to the Army and Air Force central welfare funds in suitable proportions. An immediate cash allocation of about $290,000 equivalent to profits arising from trading by ASCO in 1976 and 1977 but not previously distributed will also be made to those funds. 
Preliminary steps towards organising the new canteen service have commenced and it will come formally into being when the necessary changes have been made to the ASCO regulations. The first stages of the physical transition from the old to the new canteen arrangements are expected to begin on 1 April 1979. It is not proposed to specify a terminating date for this statutory body as has recently been suggested by the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations. I think the House will agree that this would not be an appropriate course for a trading organisation of this kind whose sole purpose is to provide a required service to the Army and Air Force on a continuing self-supporting basis. Similarly to ASCO the new service will be required to present to the Minister for Defence, the Minister for Finance and the Auditor-General an audited profit and loss account and balance sheet, covering its operations, at least once each financial year. 
In conclusion I would like to express my thanks to the many Service officers and businessmen who have served on the Australian Services Council for Canteens and the ASCO board of management. In particular I would like to mention the current  Chairman  of the Board,  Mr G.  J. Betts, whose advice and experience have been of much assistance to me in arriving at the present result, I would also like to pay tribute to ASCO which has been the source of over $10m for Army and Air Force welfare programs since it began trading in 1959. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that it has not been the practice to permit tenderers to amend the amount of their tenders after tenders have closed by phoning the officer holding the delegation to approve the tender. I am further advised that there has been no recent change in departmental practices in this respect. There are instances, from time to time, where information of various kinds is conveyed initially by telephone, then confirmed in writing. These instances could include cases where: 
a tenderer has made an obvious clerical error and is invited to confirm the bid. In that case no indication would be given as to the suspected error and the confirmed bid would be accepted only if there was no doubt concerning the intent of the original bid. A possible example would be a misplaced decimal point in a unit price quotation. 
tenders have to be revalidated because the original validity period has expired. Normally only the recommended tenderer would be invited to revalidate his tender. In some cases, where it is apparent that the price order of tenders may be affected, Departments may also invite other tenderers to revalidate their offers. 
a tender has already been determined to be the lowest suitable tender and the tenderer offers a price reduction to the Commonwealth prior to the order being placed. 
If the honourable member considers there is evidence of irregularity in purchasing procedures I shall take the necessary steps to have the matter concerned fully investigated on receipt of details. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the policy for Coolaride seats to be issued to all drivers, upon request. An instruction to this effect has been re-issued to management concerned. 
Diplomatic Representation in Oceania  (Question No. 3284) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Mercedes-Benz was purchased by the Department of the Capital Territory on 13 July 1973 for an amount of$9,898. 
Public tenders for the sale of this vehicle were called on 28 February 1 979 and close on 27 March 1 979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The distribution of the Ministerial Document Service (Daily collation of Ministers ' and Opposition Leaders ' statements) has not been reduced since it began in February 1976, although in the course of continuing review some addresses are culled from the mailing list from time to time. 
One copy is supplied to each recipient within the following categories: 
The short answer is no; but I do not feel like giving a short answer today. This matter has been raised again following a letter I wrote to the honourable member for Prospect in answer to a question of a week or so ago. It seems as though the way to get things into the media is to write to the honourable member for Prospect. That is what has happened. I think I should read from the letter so that the matter can be quite clear to members of the House and to other people interested. The letter reads: 
Amounts totalling $86,959 have been paid by the Organisation to the Queen's Silver Jubilee Appeal for Young Australians. The  Chairman  of the Organisation has informed the Queen Elizabeth II Jubilee Trust for Young Australians that a further contribution of some $17,000-$ 18,000 would be made. The amounts of $86,959 and $17,000 taken together approximate the $100,000 referred to by the  Chairman  of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation in his Report. 
The actual amount of the payment which has yet to be made will depend upon the finalisation by my Department of the accounting for the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Program Trust Account. 
The position is that more than the $17,000 mentioned in this letter is held in trust, but my Department is holding the amount back until such time as we can be sure that no more accounts will come in. One or two small accounts may be outstanding. As soon as that point is finalised the money will be paid over. It will be about $20,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Commonwealth Record: 
Vol. 1 (July-December 1976)-$177,300.00; Vol. 2 (January-December 1977)-$285,000.00; Vol. 3 (January-December 1978)-$265,450.00. 
Vol. 1 (1976)-$109,450.00; Vol. 2 (1977)- $256,450.00; Vol. 3 ( 1978)-$247,850.00. 
Vol. 1 (1976)-25 issues; Vol. 2 (1977)-S0 issues; Vol. 3 (1978)- 50 issues. 
The level of production varies with the number of subscriptions current at any time. It has varied within the following ranges: 
Vol. 1 (1976)-3,900-4,500 copies; Vol. 2 (1977) -3,400-4,200 copies; Vol. 3 (1978) - 3,000-3,400 copies. 
Ministerial Document Service (Daily Collation): 
March-December 1976-S43, 300.00; 1977- $63,700.00; 1978-$63,650.00. 
Nil. 
March-December 1976-208 issues; 1977-242 issues; 1978- 240 issues. 
1976-320 copies; 1977-325 copies; 1978-335 copies. 
Commonwealth Record: 
Two thousand seven hundred and eighty-two subscriptions at 1 March 1979. 
None. 
Editorial costs: 
Clerk Class 7 ($17,013 p.a.)-Editing and administration. 
Clerical Assistant Grade 4 ($9,953.00 p.a.)-Proof reading and general duties (50 per cent of time). 
Clerical Assistant Grade 2 ($8,595.00 p.a.)-Proof reading assistance (20 percent of time). 
The number of persons involved from time to time in production and distribution of the Commonwealth Record is considerable. I am not prepared to authorise the work which would be involved in preparing the list sought. 
Ministerial Document Service (Daily Collation): 
Nil. 
Senators and Members; Commonwealth Parliament Offices; Permanent Heads of Commonwealth Government departments; Public relations/information officers of Commonwealth Government departments; State Parliamentary libraries; National and State libraries; Australian overseas posts; Diplomatic representatives in Australia; Federal secretariats of political parties and employer/employee organisations; Media not represented in the Parliamentary Press Gallery. 
Clerical Assistant Grade 4 ($9,953.00 p.a.)- Compilation and distribution (20 per cent of time). 
Printing of the Daily Collation involves a number of persons, whose wages range from $322.00 to $382.00 per fortnight, intermittently engaged for short varying periods of dme each day. I am not prepared to authorise the work which would be involved in preparing a detailed list.-  
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a), (b) and (c). As a matter of principle, having regard to the clerical work and costs involved, I am not prepared to table such blanket material. If the honourable member can be more specific as to his interest I will give the matter further consideration. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It would cost an additional $500 approximately for each vehicle purchased with built-in airconditioning, or a total of about $2,015,000 for all the cars and station wagons in the Central Transport Authority fleet controlled by my Department (4,030 out of a total of 6,405 powered vehicles). There would be additional costs for the substantial fleets of Commonwealth vehicles operated by the Department of Transport, the Department of Housing and Construction and other authorities. Cost of airconditioning any goods vehicles would be extra. There would also be costs for maintenance and increased fuel consumption. 
It would cost about $50 per vehicle extra to have vehicles supplied with a radio as standard equipment, or about $201,500 extra for all cars and station waggons operated by my Department. 
The following information is provided in respect of the employment of apprentices in addition to the data previously provided  (Hansard,  20 February 1979, page 125). 
I assumed responsibility for the Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd on S December 1978. That Company engaged 6 apprentices in 1977 and 9 in 1978; it did not engage any apprentices prior to 1 977. 
by leave- Honourable members will recall that following the report of the Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Electoral Redistribution of Queensland in 1977, there was discussion in the House concerning analyses by the Australian Electoral Office of the preliminary proposals of the distribution commissioners. At that time the Government tabled all the relevant documents and said that consideration would be given to determining the practices which would govern the preparation and distribution of analyses in the future. Honourable members will be aware from the papers which previously were tabled and circulated that the analyses prepared by the Australian Electoral Office were based on publicly available information. I might add that given time and expertise, probably anyone could produce them. Certainly it is common practice for politicians, academics, party workers, journalists and others to make assessments of the possible political effects of redistributions. Often these are published. It is also clear that much of the public and parliamentary consideration of the proposals of distribution commissioners is strongly directed towards their political effects. 
In these circumstances the Government believes that it is quite appropriate for objective analyses of this kind to be prepared by the Australian Electoral Office. At the same time, because this information is of considerable interest both to the Parliament and to the public, it has been decided that future analyses should be tabled in Parliament with the object of assisting the consideration of the redistribution proposals. It follows that the analyses will be available to the distribution commissioners should they wish to refer to them. 

<graphic href="113131197904034_17_2.jpg"></graphic>

Analyses in the past have contained statistical tables showing the percentage of the vote which would have been won by each political party in each proposed division at the preceding election had it been conducted on the proposed boundaries. They have also contained commentaries summarising the anticipated political consequences of the proposed redistribution on the basis of the data contained in these statistical tables. Lest it be considered, albeit unjustifiably, that the commentaries are critical of the commissioners' proposals, or are not detached in their assessments, it has been decided to confine future analyses to the statistical tables only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) About S to 10 Commonwealth vehicles are normally used on a Sunday. The only Commonwealth pool vehicles with airconditioning are Ford LTD's, which have this fitted as standard equipment on purchase. When not reserved for Ministers and V.I.P. 's, these vehicles are used for general pool work and no instruction would have been given to withhold them in the circumstances described by the honourable member. 
There is no record of any Commonwealth driver in Melbourne ceasing work on any day this year due to extreme heat. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The National Capital Development Commission has advised that the Commonwealth has completed the following premises since 1975: 
An analysis of records maintained by my Department shows that the Commonwealth has leased the following premises since December 1975: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The staff establishment for the Government Information Unit comprises four positions, one of which, the Journalist, Grade A 1 , is vacant. 
The designation and salary of the positions on the establishment are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows, set out in respect of each of the three areas served by the computers which are owned or operated by the Department: 
The Australian Electoral Office 
1 ) No data is stored permanently on the computers owned or operated by the Australian Electoral Office. Enrolment data is maintained at the Burroughs Data Centre, Fyshwick, which is managed by the Public Service Board. Information in respect of that Centre has been provided by the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in answer to Question No. 2233. 
Not applicable. 
Not applicable. 
The Australian Government Publishing Service 
1 ) The Australian Government Publishing Service uses its computerised typesetting system for the production of many of its publications. The result of this process is that data is stored on magnetic tapes which can be sold or given away. The micrographics bureau sells its output in microfilm to all departments. No other information can be sold, hired, lent or given away. 
Magnetic tapes can only be sold or given away at the request of the originating Department or government organisation. 
Tapes containing a record of  Hansard  for the last five years were recently sold to the Parliamentary Library. Legislation tapes are given to Attorney-General's Department at its request. 
Survey Branch 
1 ) The Survey Branch stores survey and topographical data on magnetic tapes. The information is used to produce plans and maps which can be sold, hired, lent or given away. 
Deposited plans and series maps of the ACT are available for sale to the public and are provided to Government Departments and Authorities, in particular the Department of Housing and Construction and the National Capital Development Commission. In addition, on occasions in the development of areas of the ACT, digital terrain models on magnetic tape are provided to the Department of Housing and Construction and the National Capital Development Commission. No other information could be supplied without the express permission of the Commonwealth Surveyor-General. 
It is not practicable to list all the occasions on which this information has been supplied. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Eight thousand copies of 'Report '74' were produced at a total cost of $2,836.73. 
No similar publication has been produced in subsequent years. 
Yes. A similar publication entitled 'The First Twelve Months' was published in 1974. Five thousand copies were produced at a cost of $2,385.5 1 . 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, in the Belconnen Centre. 
) Yes. The offices are to be located in the Cameron/Benjamin District Offices. The decision to build the Cameron office complex was made in April 1969 and the Benjamin complex in October 1 972. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner, Commonwealth Police has advised that the Commonwealth Police Headquarters in Canberra does house a National Central Bureau for Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organisation. 
The Commissioner advises further that Article 32 of the Interpol constitution signifies that the co-operation between Interpol agencies should be extended through the National Central Bureaux and that no other official point of contact therefore exists within Australia. 
and (4) I am also informed that Commonwealth Police files are kept separate from those of the National Central Bureau. In its dealings with ICPO- Interpol, Commonwealth Police abides by Article 3 of the ICPO- Interpol Constitution which states that the organisation's field of activity is limited to crime prevention and law enforcement in connection with offences against general criminal law. Commonwealth Police only pass on information in accordance with those criteria. Further Article 3 of the constitution states that 'It is strictly forbidden for the Organisation to undertake any intervention or activities of a political, military, religious or racial character'. 
Marine Science Research (Question No. 34S4) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) (a) and (b). Having regard to the expenditure of resources involved in searching out records that are between 14 and 27 years old, and the ensuing problem of tracing exmembers of the Commonwealth Police who could be located in a number of countries, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to authorise the considerable expenditure necessary to search out and check the detailed information required to answer the question by the honourable member. If, however, the honourable member has any specific information, I would be happy to discuss the matter further with him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and ( 2 ) Section 42 ( 5 ) of the  Commonwealth Electoral Act  1 9 1 8 gives Aboriginal people the right to choose whether or not they enrol as electors. Against this background the Australian Electoral Office in consultation with other appropriate authorities has undertaken a variety of electoral education activities aimed at ensuring that Aboriginal people are better equipped to meet their electoral responsibilities should they choose to enrol. 
Since 1962, when the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 was amended to make enrolment for Aboriginal people a matter of choice, the Australian Electoral Office has conducted ad hoc visits to Aboriginal communities in order to acquaint them with their electoral rights and responsibilities. In comparatively recent times the Australian Electoral Office has begun to use more effective means to communicate these ideas. 
For the 1977 Northern Territory Legislative Assembly elections and the last Federal general election some of the specific activities included: 
the issuing of special instructions to Presiding Officers to ensure that assistance to non-literate voters was properly given. These instructions covered the marking of ballot-papers, the use of how-to-vote cards and the secrecy of the vote in respect of non-literate voters; 
Poll Clerks fluent in Aboriginal languages were employed at specified polling places; 
posters aimed at assisting those Aboriginal people who were literate in their own language were printed in Aboriginal languages and displayed at polling places at which Aboriginal electors were expected to vote. Additionally, similar information was prepared in leaflet form for general distribution to Aboriginal communities; 
cassette tape-recordings, films and video-cassette recordings were made about electoral procedures. These were distributed to radio and television stations and to Aboriginal communities; 
in conjunction with the Western Australian Department of Education a special pilot electoral education program was conducted amongst Aboriginal people in the Kimberley area of Western Australia. 
The success of activities such as these is difficult to measure since many factors may influence the voting behaviour of individuals. In the case of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly election the Australian Electoral Office believes that it is significant that there was a reduction in the informal vote from S.08 per cent of the total vote in 1974 to 3.18 per cent of the total vote in 1977. While similar statistics are not available for the Kimberley area in Western Australia the opinion of special observers sent to polling booths in this area was that the special pilot electoral education program had had a significant beneficial impact in assisting Aboriginal people. Specific pre-election information/education activities such as these will be continued in the future. 
In addition the Australian Electoral Office has recognised the need to have an effective continuing program of electoral education for Aboriginal people. To this end a program has commenced. The staff for the initial phase of the program have begun their training and the detailed planning of field operations. This program will involve two mobile education teams and the overall initiative has been developed in close co-operation with the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, the Council for Aboriginal Development and the National Aboriginal Education Committee. In order to avoid confusing Aboriginal people, the Commonwealth Government has sought and received the co-operation of both the South Australian and Western Australian Governments with respect to the inclusion of information about State electoral procedures in the program. As the program moves into the Northern Territory, Queensland and other States the Commonwealth Government will be seeking to establish similar co-operative arrangements. 
The exact timing of visits to Aboriginal communities including those planned for the Electoral Division of Grey, cannot be given at this stage since consultation with the leaders of those communities has yet to take place. In broad terms, it is expected that field operations will commence in South Australia and Western Australia in the first half of June 1 979. I can assure the honourable member for Grey that the Australian Electoral Office is intent on making this program effective. 
I wonder whether the honourable gentleman who asked that question is aware of the fact that I met with that Association about a fortnight ago and that we are now very, very good friends. 
by leave- I wish to inform the House of the appointment by the Governor-General of the Distribution Commissioners responsible for the preparation of proposals for the redistribution of the State of Western Australia into Electoral Divisions. Following the determination of the Chief Australian Electoral Officer, Western Australia is now entitled to 1 1 seats in the House of Representatives. The Commissioners for the Distribution will be  Mr B.  S. Nicholls, the Australian Electoral Officer for Western Australia,  Chairman, Mr J.  .F. Morgan, the Surveyor-General for Western Australia; and  Mr F.  W. Statham, Regional Director, Department of Housing and Construction, Western Australia. The appointments were notified in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  on 24 April 1979. 
Advertisements will shortly appear in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  inviting suggestions in writing relating to the redistribution. These suggestions must be lodged with the Commissioners within 30 days of the date of the advertisement. Copies of the suggestions which are lodged with the Commissioners will be made available for perusal at the end of this period. The public may make comments in writing about the suggestions that have been lodged with the Commissioners during a further 14 days. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1), (2) and (3) The information provided at Tables A, B and C below is based on an analysis of records held by my Department. Complete details of the property holdings of the Commonwealth's various statutory authorities are not held by my Department and no information on the holdings of such authorities has therefore been included. 
It will be noted that cost details have not been provided as these have been regarded historically as matters of business confidence between the Commonwealth, owners and lessors concerned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Disposal of Commonwealth surpluses can be effected by: 
I have to confess that I did not see the program or hear the announcement. I have no doubt that the facts as given by the honourable member for Phillip are correct. If so, what the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate had to say was purely a figment of his imagination and was totally untrue. This Government places great importance on the protection of the Great Barrier Reef. We would not allow any mining or drilling which would do anything to damage that reef. 
I can only assume that the honourable gentleman picks up his questions from members of one section of the media who interviewed me at lunch time. The short answer to the question is no, I do not agree. I think Australia is fortunate in securing the services of this highly eminent policeman to head up - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are two temporary and two permanent staff currently located at the Australian Electoral Office at 28 George Street, Parramatta, NSW. 
by leave- I make this statement on three matters of interest to all honourable members: The free issue of the National Flag, cassette recording of the national anthem and national tune and the availability of colour photographs of the Queen. The National Flag is our symbol of national unity. As such, the Government is concerned to encourage the flying of the National Flag as widely as possible. The proper and dignified use of the National Flag can only encourage national consciousness. Consistent with this, the Commonwealth Government's practice is to fly the National Flag from the main flagpoles of all Commonwealth Government buildings and establishments, on all working days during normal working hours. 
For many years the Government has issued the National Flag free to schools, orphanages, recognised youth organisations and State and national sporting organisations. This has helped to foster in young people respect for and familiarity with the National Flag and also a knowledge of its correct use. In response to many representations made by honourable members and to requests from organisations within the community, the Government has decided to extend the free issue of the National Flag. In addition to the categories I have already mentioned, from 1 July 1979 the following groups will also be eligible to apply for the free issue of the National Flag: Community service groups including ex-service, Apex, Lions, Rotary, senior citizens' and the Country Women's Association; benevolent and welfare organisations including Red Cross and Legacy; homes for handicapped persons. 
I acknowledge that interjection by saying that the free issue of the national flag could be appropriate to some people in the House. Continuing with the eligible groups: Church and religious bodies; ethnic organisations and sporting clubs. My Department, which has the responsibility for policy matters regarding the flying and use of the National Flag, will also assume the full responsibility for the free issue of the Flag from 1 July. This follows agreement with my colleagues, the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  whose separate departments presently distribute the free issue of the Flag to the groups currently eligible to receive it. 
Because of the wide and personal interest that honourable members have in the Flag, it is proposed that all requests for a free issue should be made through a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. As honourable members will know the standing of organisations and groups in their electorates they will be able to recommend whether a flag should be issued free. My Department is moving to order supplies of flags in different sizes. It is anticipated that some eligible groups may wish to use their flag only indoors at meetings and functions. A flag smaller in size to the kind flown outdoors would be more suitable in these instances. I should emphasise that one flag only will be provided to each eligible recipient. Requests will be handled in the order they are received and flags forwarded according to the availability of supplies. Following established practice, free issue flags will be provided and replaced on a seven-year basis. However, should a flag be damaged because of unusual weather conditions or some other circumstances, a request for a replacement will be considered if it is supported by a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. 
The second matter to which I wish to make reference concerns the special recordings my Department has had made of the national anthem God Save The Queen' and the national tune Advance Australia Fair' on cassettes. Honourable members will appreciate that these cassettes are now available for free issue to those groups currently eligible to receive the free issue of the National Flag. Eligibility for the free issue of cassettes will be expanded from 1 July to equate with that for the National Flag. Similarly, all requests should be made through a member of the Commonwealth Parliament. The other matter to which I wish to refer concerns new colour photographs of  Her  Majesty the Queen. The Queen has given approval for the distribution of new colour photographs taken at Buckingham Palace which show  Her  Majesty wearing the insignia of the Order of Australia. Prints of the new photograph will be made available to schools, groups and organisations which will display the photograph in a proper and dignified manner. Requests for a colour photograph should be addressed to my Department. I have spoken about government initiatives concerning three matters which identify the Australian people and our nation. These are subjects for which we all share a common respect. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Australian Federal Police Bill is to give effect to the Government's decision, announced on 13 December 1978, to create an Australian Federal Police which will incorporate the existing Australian Capital Territory and Commonwealth Police forces. The creation of the Australian Federal Police was the central recommendation contained in the 'Report to the Minister for Administrative Services on the Organisation of Police Resources in the Commonwealth Area and Other Related Matters', by  Sir Robert  Mark. This report was presented to the Parliament by the Prime Minister on 13 April 1978. The Government, in implementing this recommendation by proposing to the Parliament the creation of the new single Federal Police, was concerned to: Overcome the problems that are associated with distinctions of jurisdictional boundaries for the functions of police organisations not only throughout Australia, but also in the Australian Capital Territory; provide a firm basis for more effective co-operation between the Commonwealth and the States in the law enforcement area; and more effectively and economically co-ordinate police resources in the Commonwealth area. 
The importance of overcoming these problems is that terrorist and criminal activities can profit from them. The action of creating the Australian Federal Police is aimed at overcoming such problems in the Australian Capital Territory and providing a firm basis for co-operation with State police forces thus enabling the police to cope more effectively with the increasing complexity of terrorist acts of violence as well as international and national white collar crimes and other crimes against the Commonwealth. The Bill, in providing that the provisions relating to the Commissioner and  deputy  commissioners and the regulations are to come into operation upon the Royal Assent, identifies a creation date for the commencement of the Australian Federal Police. As announced on Tuesday, 8 May 1979, the Government has decided that  Sir Colin  Woods, K.C.V.O., C.B.E., at present  Her  Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary for England and Wales, should be designated the first Commissioner of the AFP. The Bill provides for the remainder of the Act to come into operation on a date to be proclaimed. This will necessarily follow the making of the regulations as well as the Commissioner's general orders and instructions. The date for proclamation will identify an incorporation date for the appointment of all members of both present forces into the new Australian Federal Police. Between those dates the provisions of the Bill will enable the Commissioner to make arrangements for the appointment to the Australian Federal Police of all present members of both present forces. At the incorporation date the legislation for the present forces will be repealed. 
The legislation meets the assurances that have been given by Ministers that jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members of both present forces will not be at risk. Provisions of the Bill expressly provide for the application of existing terms and conditions to individual members of the two present forces being incorporated into the Australian Federal Police, until a new agreement or determination is made after the incorporation date. As with any organisation, new terms and conditions will evolve with the process of negotiation and arbitration before a Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal, following the incorporation date. The Bill constitutes the new single Federal Police as being of one membership, the members of which are to serve in either of two components- one on general police functions and the other on police protective service functions. The broad policies incorporated in the Bill include the principles necessary for a first class police organisation. The functions, organisation and responsibilities of the police are made clear in the Bill and it will be operationally independent yet administratively accountable as recommended by  Sir Robert  Mark. In developing the major proposal for the provision of two components the Government was cognisant of the special requirements of the Commonwealth in the fields of protective security and the need to retain a relationship of this form of law enforcement with the other general policing functions within the Commonwealth area. In introducing this concept, however, the Government has been concerned to ensure the opportunity, and for the present members of the existing forces a preferential opportunity, for transfer and general mobility, subject to the usual principles of competence and qualifications, between the two components. Training opportunities are to be provided to enable members to achieve the competence and qualifications that will be needed for promotion and transfer between components. The allocation of the detailed functions and personnel to the components is provided for the Commissioner to determine. 
The broad functions of the Federal Police are prescribed in the Bill. In the main they provide for the functions associated with the policing of the Australian Capital Territory, the investigation of offences against the Commonwealth and the protection and safeguarding of the Commonwealth 's interests. These are consistent with the proposals of  Sir Robert  Mark.  (Quorum formed)  The prescribed functions also, for the first time in the Commonwealth's history, make provision for the recognition of the traditional State police role, and place on the Commissioner of the Federal Police the responsibility to make arrangements with the State Police Commissioners for the investigation of offences against State-made laws in relation to Commonwealth places. This action will therefore for the first time require arrangements for overcoming the problems associated with the jurisdictional boundaries between the Federal Police and State police forces. This is designed to ensure that the traditional role of the State police forces is not interfered with and will enhance the opportunity for co-operative arrangements. 
An important policy incorporated in the Bill is the arrangements for the Government's control and management of the Australian Federal Police. This is consistent with the philosophy that the force should be operationally independent yet administratively accountable. Provision is made for the Commissioner to be responsible for the general administration and control of the operations of the Australian Federal Police. The responsibilities of the Minister and the Secretary, who in some limited matters also advises the Minister, are clearly spelt out. They refer to the giving of written directions by the Minister, after seeking both the ad vice of the Commissioner and the Secretary, on the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the Federal police, and in the making of arrangements for the development and use of national common services. The Commissioner is to report to the Minister whenever requested to do so by the Minister. The Bill also recognises the uniqueness of the police in our society and its members' dual accountability to the courts and the public, as well as administratively to the Government. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory, it provides that a Police Liaison Advisory Council is to be established to advise the Minister upon community policing matters in the Australian Capital Territory. The Bill provides for the creation of a separate Police Arbitral Tribunal. The Tribunal, it is proposed, will be constituted by a Deputy President of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and provides for, with the leave of the Tribunal, appeal to the Full Bench of the Commission. 
The Government believes that the establishment of a single Federal Police, as proposed by this Bill, will provide a basis for many of the current problems experienced between law enforcement authorities within Australia to be overcome or reduced, and thus achieve more effective cooperation and co-ordination of resources in the Commonwealth area. The increasing complexity and occurrence of crimes of violence, terrorism and white collar crimes, requires the closest cooperation between all police forces. The Commonwealth's responsibility in this area finds a firm basis within this Bill and will be pursued in co-operation with the States, through the Commonwealth-State Ministerial Police Advisory Council which, as recommended by  Sir Robert  Mark, is proposed to be established by arrangement between the Commonwealth and the States, after the creation of the Australian Federal Police. 
Two other matters relating to the police, that have been under consideration by the Government following reports thereon by the Law Reform Commission, deal with legislation relating to complaints against the police and with legislation to regulate police procedures in criminal investigation. The Government anticipates being able to introduce legislation upon complaints procedure later in the year. The Government is currently reviewing the draft legislation tabled in the Parliament in 1 977 relating to criminal investigation procedures. This will necessarily take some time to complete, including giving the Commissioner of the new Australian Federal Police the opportunity to comment on proposals upon it. I have arranged for an explanatory memorandum and notes on clauses to be distributed to all honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of the Bill now before the House is to amend the Albury-Wodonga Development Act 1973 in order to approve the AlburyWodonga Development Agreement Amendment Agreement No. 1 and to implement its provisions in so far as they relate to the structure of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation. The Amendment Agreement which was signed by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria on 4 September 1978 provides for an expansion in the membership of the AlburyWodonga Development Corporation from five to eight members; common membership of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, the Albury-Wodonga (New South Wales) Corporation and the Albury-Wodonga (Victoria) Corporation; and the abolition of the Consultative Council. At present the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation is made up of three full time and two part time members. The Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian Ministers on the Ministerial Council responsible for oversight and development of AlburyWodonga were of the unanimous view that there was a need for greater local government involvement in the decision-making process and a more effective link between the Councils and the Corporation. 
It was agreed that these objectives could best be achieved if the mayors of Albury and Wodonga were to become ex officio part-time members of the Corporation. The Ministerial Council agreed that provision should also be made for a prominent businessman to serve on the Corporation to ensure that its membership reflects the nature of the partnership between the three levels of government and the private sector in the development of the growth centre. The responsibility for the development of AlburyWodonga is vested in three corporations established under legislation of the Commonwealth, New South Wales and Victorian Parliaments. In practice, the three corporations act as one, and it is therefore important that they have common membership. The Amendment Agreement provides for the part time members to take their places on all three corporations. The Amendment Agreement also abolishes the sixteenperson Consultative Council, which has tended to create friction between the Corporation and local governments. 
Apart from the provisions now incorporated in the Agreement to include the mayors of Albury and Wodonga and a businessman of national standing on the Corporation, the Ministerial Council has also decided that the role of the range of community advisory committees that have been established to support the Corporation should be strengthened and enhanced. The Ministerial Council believes that these measures will ensure that the relationship between the Corporation and Councils is strengthened without in any way affecting the access of interested community groups on the advisory committees to the Corporation. I understand that the measures that I have outlined were announced in the growth centre some time ago and that they have received general community support. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Keating)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The records of the Australian Electoral Office do not distinguish the racial origins of persons claiming enrolment; therefore it is not possible to determine which electors are Aboriginal and thereby calculate the statistics sought by the honourable member. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the National Water Resources (Financial Assistance) Act 1 978 1 present copies of agreements with South Australia and Victoria in respect of projects by way of salinity control in the Murray River Valley. 
Pursuant to section 8 of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act 1974 I present a notice under clause 5 (2) of the Agreement with South Australia and for the information of honourable members I present a project approval under section 4 of the Act. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See Annexure 'A' No. 2.1 to the Fourth Report of the Royal Commission on Petroleum 'Marketing and Pricing of Petroleum Products in Australia '. 
Details  for  the years since 1 974 are not available. 
Royal Commission on Petroleum: Report  (Question No. 3586) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (l)and(2)Yes. 
and (4) The condensate from the North West Shelf and the Cooper Basin could make a significant contribution towards requirements of refineries of petrochemical plants in Australia. The scope for this will be primarily a matter for commercial decision. However, the Government will permit exports only if sales cannot be made on the domestic market on a realistic and economic basis. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) See  Mr Newman's  press statement on 'Petroleum Refining Industry' dated 1 June 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Nil. The furniture and fittings were provided from existing Departmental stocks. 
) Not applicable. See ( 1 ) above. 
Furniture and fittings were returned to Departmental control. 
No. See (3) above. 
That is a very complex series of questions. I will treat it as being on notice and provide the honourable gentleman with a full reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Oil Industry Supply and Shipping Committee is industry sponsored and comprises representatives of all oil marketing and refining companies in Australia. Its purpose is to minimise logistics problems in the intrastate and interstate movement of crude oil and petroleum products. There are no Government representatives on this Committee. 
There is also an Oil Supplies Advisory Committee which was recently established to advise the Government following the disruption to supplies caused by the Iran crisis. Membership is drawn from the Oil Industry Supply and Shipping Committee referred to above together with officers of the Department of National Development. It is meeting regularly under the Chairmanship of a senior officer of the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of imports of petroleum and petroleum products by individual companies are confidential. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See answer to Question No. 3663. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commissioner of Police and the Minister for Mines, Energy and Police, the  Hon.  R. E. Camm, M.L.A., have both made enquiries about land and buildings becoming available at the Lytton Quarantine Station. 
The Commissioner of Police wrote to the Chief Property Officer for my Department in Brisbane on 2 1 November 1978. 
Other Departments and Authorities have not yet been canvassed because the property is still held by the Department of Health. The property will be declared surplus by that Department when the amended quarantine area has been proclaimed. 
Priority is given to other Commonwealth Departments and statutory authorities, then to the former owner (where applicable) then State and local Government Authorities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Miller was engaged in June 1978 as a special advisor for work preparatory to the setting up of a national organisation to develop the bicentennial celebrations. This engagement ended on 16 March 1979. 

 Mr Miller was appointed in July 1974 as consultant to the Australia *75 Festival with responsibility for promotions and public relations activities which he directed from July 1974 to December 1974. 
The  Chairman  of the Festival's Board of Governors (The  Hon.  Gordon Bryant, E.D., M.P., then Minister for the Capital Territory) issued a statement on 22 December 1974 in the following terms: 
The Minister for the Capital Territory,  Mr Bryant,  announced tonight that  Mr Harry  M. Miller, who had been appointed Public Relations and Promotions Consultant to the forthcoming Australia '75 Festival, would not be continuing in that capacity. 

 Mr Miller had informed him with regret that he had now found he was not in the position to undertake the work entailed in promoting the Festival. 

 Mr Bryant said he regretted that  Mr Miller  was unable to continue with the Festival, particularly in view of the fine work he had previously done. 

 Mr Miller had told him his inability to continue was a great disappointment as he considered that because of its unique nature a festival of this type was worthwhile and greatly desirable and should be encouraged in the future. He would look forward with great interest to the outcome of the Festival and wished it every success. 
and (5 ) The original agreement with  Mr Miller  was for a fee of $7,500 plus 5 per cent of any gross ticket sales in excess of $200,000. When  Mr Miller  was unable to continue with the Festival, his negotiations with the Board of Governors resulted in payment of an agreed total sum of $10,000 in lieu of the previously agreed amounts. 
As the payment finally agreed was $2,500 in excess of the initially budgeted figure of $7,500, the organisers had to fund this additional amount plus further expenditures for promotion work for the period from  Mr Miller's  departure to the date of the Festival. 
No. As stated by the Prime Minister on 5 April 1979,  Mr John  Reid has agreed to serve as  Chairman  of the proposed Australian Bicentennial Authority. 
No. 
See answer to (6) above. 
(a) and (b) Yes.  Mr Miller  was appointed a member of the Qantas Board on 25 May 1976 and a member of the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation on 18 November 1977. He resigned from both positions as from 16 March 1979. 
10)  Mr H.  M. Miller is on the electoral roll for the Division of New England. As to whether he is a friend of the Minister for Primary Industry, attention is drawn to the Minister's response to a question without notice on 16 November 1978  (Hansard,  page 3017). The Minister said, in part: 'I know Harry Miller. I would not say that I know him particularly well '. 
(a), (b) and (c). The Minister for Primary Industry, as a member of Cabinet, participates in Cabinet decisions on appointments to Government bodies of which Qantas and the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation are two. 
12) Provision exists in the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation Act 1977 for the disclosure of a member's pecuniary interests in any matters being considered. Insofar as Qantas is concerned, the duties of Directors are set out in the Queensland Companies Act and in the Qantas Articles of Association. In brief, they require Directors to declare an interest in a contract in which they have a direct or indirect interest. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government's preference policy has changed from that in operation when the Callaghan Report was prepared. At that time one of the criteria for preference to local industry over imports was the 'depressed industry' criterion. The present policy, however, is to give preference to Australian-made goods unless there are substantial reasons why imports should be preferred. In such cases Ministers determine whether imports are to be preferred. Within the existing preference procedures there is scope to highlight cases where Australian-made goods of Tasmanian origin are in competition with imports and indeed this has been done in a case for the supply of paper involving a tender from Associated Pulp and Paper Mills. 
In the past the Commonwealth has received requests from State Governments proposing preferences to areas (e.g. country towns) but these have been rejected. There is the practical problem of how discrimination as between regions could be justified and also the question of whether such discrimination might be unconstitutional. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not in the national interest to reveal such detailed information as the honourable member seeks. On 4 April 1 979 I provided, through  Senator the  Honourable F. M. Chaney, an answer to Senate Question No. 1427  (Hansard,  page 1349). On that occasion I revealed the number of Commonwealth Police in the Sydney airport unit without indicating specific locations. The honourable member would appreciate that making public the precise details of police at all major airports throughout Australia could compromise airport security. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(i) and (b) (i)- I refer the honourable member to the Treasurer's answer to Question No. 3344 which appeared on page 2047 of  Hansard  on 9 May 1 979. The figures given by the Treasurer relate to production of solar absorber units for residential use. Statistics in relation to numbers of units actually installed are not available, however it might be noted that currently approximately one third of units produced are exported. 
(ii) and (b) (ii)- No statistics are available on production or installation of industrial solar water heaters; there are at present very few industrial solar heaters installed in Australia, and most of these are demonstration units only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government's decision in the 1978-79 Budget that all Australian produced crude oil should be priced to refineries at import parity levels does not result in an additional return to the oil producers- see the Treasurer's Budget Statement in the  Hansard  of 1 5 August 1 978, at page 45. 
Details of petroleum exploration expenditure by individual companies are provided to my Department on a confidential basis. Total exploration expenditure is published in the Petroleum Newsletter prepared by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. The most recently available information is in respect of the 1977 calendar year, and was published in Petroleum Newsletter No. 74. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1), (2) and (3) Individual company information is supplied to the Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Australian Bureau of Statistics on a confidential basis. However, aggregate information on expenditure and the source of funds for 1977 is available in The Petroleum Newsletter (No. 74) published by the Bureau of Mineral Resources. 
(a) In accordance with the 1967 Joint Offshore Petroleum arrangements with the States the Commonwealth receives full details of the results of offshore exploration activities from all title holders. 
Companies operating onshore in the States and the Northern Territory are subject to State or Territory laws and are under no obligation to supply results to the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The crude oil allocation and absorption policy was introduced in its present form on 1 January 1970 to run for a period of 10 years, and an undertaking was given to the oil industry that discussions would be held with the industry before any changes were implemented. The views of the industry on the future of the allocation system will be sought shortly. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) Following the announcement of the Government's LPG policy on 29 November 1978, there has been a strong increase in demand for conversion of motor vehicles to the use of LPG. This resulted in a shortage of LPG cylinders as at that time there was only one local manufacturer. However a second company has recently started producing LPG cylinders in Victoria and I understand that a third company will soon be entering the market. It is therefore expected the supply of cylinders will soon be adequate to meet the demand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Offenders of this type are not charged with theft or stealing. They are usually charged with the offence of forging and uttering. 
The following information therefore relates to these offences: 
One offender resides in the Electoral Division of Isaacs. This person has not yet appeared in court. 
Five offenders, not residents, have committed offences in the Electoral Division of Isaacs: two have appeared before a Magistrates Court and both have been placed on a S200 bond and ordered to pay $ 1 00 into the court poor box; three have yet to appear in court. 
Ninety-one cases in the Electoral Division of Isaacs are still under investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2), (3) and (4) A coroner's inquest into the circumstances surrounding the death of  Mr Speranza  will be held in Sydney in July. It would not be appropriate for me to comment on the matters you have raised in these circumstances. 
First of all, let me say that the Government and all of us on this side of the chamber reject the suggestion of second class police officers. I find the idea repugnant as I am sure it is repugnant to all members of the force. 
Yes. No member of the present force will lose any status, salary or position whatsoever. That has been stated categorically by my predecessors and by myself. At the moment, many members of the protective services force are very highly trained. I think it is an absurd proposition to talk about low level functions, which I think were the words used by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  because many of these so-called  low level  functions are fraught with very high personal risks. 

 - Sir Robert Mark was talking about a civil guard, and we have been over that area before. There is full mobility between the two components. There is preference for existing members of the components. In response to submissions made by the Commonwealth Police Officers Association, the preference period was extended from two years to five years or longer, at the direction of the Minister of the day. The functions, which are really what this discussion is all about, will be decided by the Commissioner, and they will be decided in consultation with the Minister at the time. So I am afraid the Government cannot accept the Opposition's amendment because it attacks the basic concept of the whole Bill, which is the two-component force. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 7 (Components). 
The Government does not accept the amendment. This clause deals with the provision of police services. Subclause (2) reads:   . . being services by way of the investigation of offences against the laws of that State . . . shall be in accordance with arrangements made between the Commissioner and the Commissioner of Police ( however designated) of that State. 
The Government believes that these are operational services and therefore not matters for Ministers. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 9 agreed to. 
Clause 10 (Powers and duties of members referred to in paragraph 6(d)). 
I appreciate the remarks made by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  The Government has already given the reasons for the insertion of this clause. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 1 1 and 12- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 13 (General administration and control.) 
The Committee will understand that this issue was canvassed during the second reading debate. I will not go into it any more except to place on record the statement I made then which resulted from discussions that we on the Government side have had, particularly relating to the affairs in South Australia. I note that South Australians seem to be taking an active part in the debate and, I would say, more on the suspension of Commissioner Salisbury than anything else. 
I commend to the House the book written by  Mr Cockburn  and referred to by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  I would like to place on record that I propose to give a written direction with respect to the general policy to be pursued by the Commissioner in relation to the dissemination of information by the Australian Federal Police. The direction will safeguard the rights to privacy of individuals. I propose to table the direction and it will be revised in due course in the light of the Australian Law Reform Commission 's report on privacy. This is consistent with the advice given to the Government by  Sir Robert  Mark in his report last year on the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area and other related matters. I regret that we cannot accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 14 (General Orders and General Instructions). 
I formally announce that we are unable to accept the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 15 and 16- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 17 (Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners). 
The Government is unable to accept these amendments. We are actually dealing with three amendments to clause 17. I am advised that this is a question determined by the Parliamentary Counsel in the drafting of Bills and that the term 'GovernorGeneral' is synonymous with the term Governor-General in Council'. 
Amendments negatived. 
This is the nearest we will come to exchanging words. It is not a stupid omission or one of absurdity. As the Bill is framed, the Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner already have the right to resign. This proposal would diminish that right and would mean than a government could hold a Commissioner against his will. We oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 18 to 21- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 22 (Termination of appointment). 
The Government is unable to accept the amendments for the reasons I gave in respect of a previous amendment. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 23 and 24- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 25 (Commissioned officers). 
The Government cannot accept the amendments, for the reasons given earlier. 
Amendments negatived. 
Once again, the Government is unable to accept these amendments. They have been canvassed earlier. They thrust at the basic concept of the whole force having two components and we are unable to accept them. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 26 (Non-commissioned officers). 
The Government cannot agree to these amendments, for the reasons given a few moments ago. This is a twocomponent force. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 27 (Special members). 
The Government does not agree to the amendments, for the reasons given earlier. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 28 (Undertakings and oaths or affirmations). 
This amendment, which deals with clause 28, the Government rejects for the reasons I have given before. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  It being 10.30 p.m., I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
in reply- I thank all those honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I realise that we have a severe time constraint and that this is going to be a Committee Bill. At this stage there are only one or two comments that I would like to make. Firstly, the Australian Federal Police Bill only establishes a new Federal police force. It does not extend or create new powers for the Federal Police. It only brings together under Federal laws the existing powers of police in the Australian Capital Territory and the Commonwealth Police throughout Australia. The present powers of the Ombudsman to deal with complaints by members of the public against the two present Federal police forces will continue in relation to the Federal Police. New legislation will be introduced later to relate the Ombudsman's role to an internal investigation unit of the police and an independent tribunal to deal with any charges arising from complaints. 
In developing the major proposal for the provision of two components, a modification had to be made to  Sir Robert  Mark's suggestion that much of the protective service work be done by civil guards. The Government could not afford to retain about 1,000 Commonwealth police who are presently providing protective security and at the same time employ 1,000 civil guards. More importantly, the Government required a police protective service in respect of embassies, airports, official residences and risk installations such as the Atomic Energy Commission and Defence munitions depots. The Government was of the view that it had to retain a relationship of this form of law enforcement with the other general policing functions within the Commonwealth area. At the same time, the Government has been concerned in respect of the police affected by this proposal and has provided in clauses 25 and 26, together with clause 73 of the Bill, for general mobility between the components, subject to the usual principles of competence and qualifications, as well as a preferential opportunity for mobility between components for present police as against new recruits. I think that this would dispose of the suggestion made by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  and one or two other honourable members that this could create a second class police force. 
I thank all honourable members who have taken part in the debate. In particular, I would like to acknowledge the contribution made by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman),  as well as that made by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie),  who was listed to speak tonight but did not do so. He has been a big help in this area. I would also like to thank the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  and the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  the honourable member for Bonython and the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James).  I place on record my appreciation of the support given by the Government Members Law and Government Committee, of which the honourable member for Denison is the  chairman,  and by the Government Members Communication and Administrative Services Committee, of which the honourable member for Calare is the  chairman.  I thank those committees for the support they have given us. Both these committees, and many honourable members on both sides of the House, have been involved in the consultative processes. I thank them for their assistance. 
I also acknowledge the work of the task force which commenced in August 1978, and upon whose recommendations the legislation has been worked out. It is appropriate to mention the senior officers who assisted the Task Force, one from the Australian Capital Territory Police and one from the Commonwealth Police. In addition, there was a significant input from officers of my own Department, the Attorney-General's Department, the Department of Industrial Relations and the Department of the Capital Territory. I also acknowledge the personal interest of the Minister for Industrial Relations ( M r Street ). 
I wish particularly to refer to the remarks of the honourable member for Sturt, especially as they relate to clause 1 3 (2 ) of the Bill. As a result of a number of discussions with him on this clause, and with other honourable members on the Government side, I take this opportunity to inform the House that I propose to give a written direction with respect to the general policy to be pursued by the Commissioner in relation to the dissemination of information by the Australian Federal Police. The direction will safeguard the rights to privacy of individuals. I propose to table the direction and it will be revised in due course in the light of the Australian Law Reform Commission's report on privacy. This is consistent with the advice given to the Government by  Sir Robert  Mark in his report last year on the organisation of police resources in the Commonwealth area and other related matters. This will also remove any need to amend clause 13, as foreshadowed by the proposed Opposition amendments which have been circulated. I would like to make two or three remarks in conclusion. The honourable member for Melbourne, I believe, will remember saying before the suspension of the sitting for dinner that the regulations are already made. I think I quote him accurately. 
I wish to assure the honourable member for Melbourne and the House that this is not so. The Commissioner does not yet really exist as a commissioner. The regulations cannot be prepared until we have the Bill and the commissioner. At the moment, the commissioner is a commissioner-designate. 
The regulations will be processed in the ordinary way. When it comes to the question of debate, that is not in my hands. We would have to lean on the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  for that. One of the other points to which I wish to refer, because it is a matter of fact, is that the honourable member for Melbourne will remember stating that  Sir Colin  Woods was passed over- I think those were the words he used- when  Sir Robert  Mark retired as Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police Force in the United Kingdom. That is not correct. In fact, in answer to a question on 9 May I placed on record the fact that he was the  deputy  to  Sir Robert  Mark and British law prevents the  deputy  taking over as Commissioner. The Commissioner must come from another force. I just place that on record as a matter of fact. 
I appreciate the remarks of the honourable member for Hunter in respect of a public relations officer. I can say that the Australian Capital Territory Police Force does have a public relations officer. I can assure the honourable member that the new force will continue with the public relations officer. We certainly understand the benefit of having one. This was a strong recommendation made by  Sir Robert  Mark. The only other point that I would like to make- it is just a small one- is in reference to the remarks made by the honourable member for Bonython. I think he said that we should follow the New South Wales arrangements in respect of dismissing a commissioner. The Commissioner in New South Wales can be dismissed only on the unanimous resolution of the combined meeting of the two Houses. That is a small point, but it is a matter of fact. Once again, I thank all honourable members for their contribution. I look forward to a comprehensive but, I hope, brief discussion in the Committee stage. 

 Dr BLEWETT ( Bonython )-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Innes's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
We reject this amendment also. The Government certainly has nothing to hide, nor is there any omission in the Bill. The appeal provisions are provided for under clause 40(c), on page 14, including the Promotions Appeal Board. This conforms with the present position in the Australian Capital Territory and the Commonwealth Police regulations. We oppose the amendment. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 36A. 
I confirm what the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  has just said and I thank him for his assistance on the passage of the Bill. Clause 37 does explain that the three-month resignation period is not an arbitrary term and it can be shortened as the Commissioner determines, but has to be final after four months. The management of both police forces feels that the general provision of three months provides sufficient flexibility for an officer to be replaced. However, any variation is always subject to negotiation between the new commissioner and the association or associations. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 38 (Retirement). 
I shall deal with Opposition amendment No. 42 which relates to the Promotion Appeals Board. The Government is unable to accept the deletion of paragraph (c) because the Opposition's earlier amendment to clause 36 was rejected. Opposition amendment No. 43 acknowledges the Government's belief that it should be possible for police to retire at the age of 55 years. Because of the implications of superannuation, the policy details have not yet been worked out. Also, we are unable to accept Opposition amendment No. 44. Paragraph (f) of clause 40 provides for regulations to include disciplinary offences. It also establishes a Disciplinary Board to determine appeals. Disciplinary matters concerning the two present police forces are covered under regulations similar to those provided for in this paragraph of the Bill. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 41 to 43- by leave- taken together and agreed to. 
Clause 44 (Continuation of hearing of matters). 
The Parliamentary Counsel has advised me that 'shall' was changed to 'may' so as to give a new judge of the Tribunal a discretion to take new evidence and argument as well as giving consideration to the earlier evidence and argument presented before the earlier judge was unable to continue because of ill health or for some other reason. We believe that the Government has actually improved the arbitral processes of the police Tribunal. This may be an appropriate time to report progress. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)The  question is that the Committee report progress and ask for leave to sit again. 
I withdraw my motion that the Committee report progress. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- I put the question that the amendment be agreed to. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 45 agreed to. 
Clause 46 (Determinations by Tribunal). 
The Opposition amendment No. 46 which happens to be to clause 46 is not accepted by the Government. Under clauses 38 and 39 which the amendment proposes to change the right of appeal exists already in the same form as in the present legislation which established the two police forces. If there were a wrongful retirement or dismissal under clauses 38 and 39, a member could test that dismissal in an ordinary court. However, the Government will give serious consideration to the possibility of the provision of an appeal to an appropriate tribunal, not necessarily the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal to which clause 46 refers. Amendment No. 47 was dealt with earlier. I will not traverse the arguments in respect of it. As to Amendment No. 48, the Government does not agree to the previous amendment seeking appeal to the Federal Police Arbitral Tribunal under clauses 38 and 39. Therefore, it is necessary to retain the words in the clause. 
Amendments negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 47 and 48- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 49 (Particular powers of Tribunal). 
This amendment seeks to change one word in line 38. Instead of saying 'a party' it seeks to say 'any party'. We believe that this is absolutely unnecessary. It means the same thing. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 50 to 54- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 55 (Representation before Tribunal or Commission). 
I appreciate the cooperation of the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Likewise I will be very brief. The Government rejects the proposed new Parts. I refer honourable members to the second reading speech, which sets out the reasons. It states: 
Two other matters relating to the police, that have been under consideration by the Government following reports thereon by the Law Reform Commission, deal with legislation relating to complaints against the police- 
That includes the provisions for vicarious liability -  and with legislation to regulate police procedures in criminal investigation. The Government anticipates being able to introduce legislation upon complaints procedure later in the year. The Government is currently reviewing the draft legislation tabled in the Parliament in 1977 relating to criminal investigation procedures. This will necessarily take some time to complete, including giving the Commissioner of the new Australian Federal Police the opportunity to comment on proposals upon it. 
Proposed new Parts negatived. 
Title. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. In the current period contract for Ford Fairmont Sedans tinted banded laminated windscreens are specified instead of sun visors. 
The saving in fitting tinted banded laminated windscreens instead of sun visors is about $37 per vehicle. 
and (4) It is considered that these windscreens afford the driver similar protection from direct sunlight to that provided by a sun visor. 
Pursuant to section 6 of the Remuneration Tribunal Act 1973 1 present the Remuneration Tribunal Review 1979. This report was distributed to honourable members during the adjournment. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
I shall be introducing legislation to give effect to changes to the Tribunal 's determinations which I announced on 20 June, as soon as is practicable. These changes will apply to automatic adjustment of members' and senators' salaries on a twice yearly basis, and to the increases determined for Ministers and office holders of the Parliament. In the case of private members and senators, the Tribunal took into account the 4 per cent national wage increase of December 1978 and determined a new basic rate of $26,720. The Government is prepared to accept this rate and the increase flowing from the last national wage case decision, but it could not agree to the Tribunal's proposal that national wage case decisions apply automatically, that is, under present arrangements, twice yearly adjustments. Steps will be taken to ensure that automatic application of national wage case decisions on a twice yearly basis will not apply. 
The Tribunal also proposed increased salaries and allowances for Ministers and office holders of the Parliament. In some cases, these go well beyond what indexation would have yielded. While the Government recognises that the objective of the Tribunal was to see some readjustment of relativities in this field it is unable to accept the proposals. To do so would have the effect of granting proportionate increases greater than those received by the majority of Australian wage and salary earners. Accordingly, the Government will take steps to increase present salaries for Ministers and parliamentary office holders only for indexation increases since the last review, including any increase flowing from the last national wage case decision. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The Opposition notes what the Government has said. It gives us a chance to indicate again that the Government is using some sort of confidence trick by saying that full indexation must not be granted to people in this country when they are earning their living. It has become a ploy of the Government to suggest that members of the Parliament and others are pacesetters in that area. I am happy to advise members of the Parliament that if they look at the report they will see that the members of the Remuneration Tribunal are not at all persuaded by this illogical argument. In fact, they point out that the remuneration of others, particularly in State administrations and local government, is far and away above what is paid to office holders, members of Parliament, judges and others in the Federal sphere. They also advert to the fact that people in Qantas Airways Ltd and the Commonwealth Bank are leaving those statutory organisations because they can look after themselves better in the private sector. 
The point we wish to make as an Opposition- we do not wish to emphasise it too much- is that there is always a chance for a Prime Minister or an Executive to play politics by saying: 'I am going to set an example by not taking the increase'. Let us have a look at the assets and other income of many of these gentlemen. They are very substantial indeed. These gentlemen would not require any increase. We want to try to establish the principle that the Parliament should not try to set its own members' salary. We believe that it should be referred to a tribunal. We believe that evidence should be given to that tribunal and when the tribunal makes a decision the Parliament should stick with that decision. Why have a situation where one can play politics, as can happen, by coming in and saying: 'The Tribunal has all the evidence. It has heard our submissions. But we are not going to agree with what it has decided'? I do not think that anybody in the country would agree with that. It does not do us justice at all. From the point of view of the people outside it does not give the Parliament any dignity or credibility. 
It is the Opposition's considered view that, this matter having been submitted to a tribunal, there should be no power of disallowance. This affords an opportunity to go and argue the case before a tribunal. I note with interest - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) The building should be completed towards the end of 1979. Unexpected difficulties encountered by the lessor in the initial stages of development resulted in the original completion date being set back by about six months. 
) In view of ( 1 ), actual construction had not commenced at that date. 
Government Houses in the Australian Capital Territory  (Question No.  41 14) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Having regard to the expenditure of resources involved in searching out records which are not kept in a format which would allow ready retrieval of the actual amount of overtime paid to Commonwealth Police at Parliament House, I do not think it would be appropriate for me to authorise the considerable expenditure necessary to search out and calculate the detailed information required to answer the question by the honourable member. 
Payments are made under the Department of Administrative Services division 1 37/ 1 /02. 
Commonwealth Police at Airports  (Question No. 41 33) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member's question is substantially the same as his previous question (No. 3899). As stated in my answer to that question, to reveal the establishment level of Commonwealth Police at each Australian airport could jeopardise airport security and compromise the high standard of protection that is presently afforded the travelling public and airport staff. The honourable member may care to note that the answer to Senate Question No. 1427  (Hansard,  4 April 1979, page 1349) revealed the number of Commonwealth Police at Sydney airport but did not specify the numbers on duty at either the domestic or international terminals, thus maintaining the integrity of airport security. 
I thank the honourable member for Hotham for his interest in this matter and for his suggestion. I undertake to give it some consideration when looking at the guidelines for the use of the song. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission special report for 1979 on financial assistance for local government. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
When announcing the release of the Remuneration Tribunal's 1979 review on 20 June 1979 I indicated that the Government would not be accepting some of the determinations and reports contained in the review. The purpose of this Bill and the Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1979 is to give effect to new salary and allowances for members of parliament, Ministers, parliamentary office holders and judges. 
This Bill provides for certain changes to Determination Nos 6, 7 and 8 of 1 979 of the Remuneration Tribunal. The modifications to these determinations are contained in Part II of the Bill. These modifications give effect to the Government's wish to restrict increases to those which result from the application of the national wage case decisions of 21 December 1978 and 27 June 1979. It also removes the provision for automatic application of national wage case decisions during the period the determination is in force. 
There are a few special cases when the indexation principle has not been applied. In the case of 

 Deputy Chairman of Committees in the Senate and the House of Representatives, the rate of additional salary payable in respect of the office has been raised to equate it with that payable to  Deputy  Whips, other than the  Deputy  Government Whip in the House of Representatives. In the case of the Government or Opposition Whips in the House or Senate and the  Chairman,  Public Works or Public Accounts Committee a special allowance was determined for the first time. The allowance proposed in the Bill has been calculated by presuming that the Whips would have been receiving an allowance of $1,100 and the  Chairman  $550 and applying the indexation principle to those amounts. 
As the salaries and allowances in the Remuneration Tribunal 's 1 979 review were set by determination they have been in effect since 1 July 1979. They will continue until the date this Bill receives royal assent, at which time the salaries and allowances specified in the Bill shall take effect. 
Part III of the Bill gives effect to the salaries and allowances of holders of judicial offices as recommended by the Tribunal in Report No. 2 of 1979. The Bill provides for these salaries and allowances to be applied retrospectively from 1 July 1979. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill provides for an increase in the sum payable out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the salaries of Ministers of State, pursuant to section 66 of the Constitution. In calculating the amount required the Government has not accepted the ministerial salaries recommended in the Tribunal's Report No. 1 of 1979. It has instead decided to limit the increase to the indexation principles referred to earlier. 
The general principle which has been applied in Part II of the Remuneration and Allowances Bill and in the Ministers of State Amendment Bill is to limit increases to national wage case decisions. The Government recognises that Ministers have not had an increase since 1976 and office holders since 1977 and recognises that the objective of the Tribunal was to effect some readjustment of relativities in this field. 
However the increases recommended by the Tribunal have gone well beyond what indexation would have yielded and to accept the recommendation would have had the effect of granting proportionate increases greater than those received by the majority of Australian income earners. The Government feels that the Parliament should be setting an example to the rest of the community by declining increases outside those which indexation would have yielded. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes certain changes to Part II of the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 which covers the Academic Salaries Tribunal. At present the Academic Salaries Tribunal can make determinations and reports only on academic salaries in the context of a general review of all categories of academic staff. Since the last general review was undertaken in 1976 a number of matters have developed which require the Tribunal's attention. As the Act is presently constituted it is not possible to consider these matters without undertaking a general review. Such a review is not necessary at this time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow the Tribunal to make determinations or reports on academic salaries for: Firstly, newly established Commonwealth tertiary institutions; secondly, new categories of academic staff; and thirdly, particular categories of staff in all States and Territories for either universities, colleges of advanced education or both without having to undertake a general review. By extending the Act to cover these three areas it will be possible to clear up the outstanding matters. 
The Bill also corrects an ambiguity as to whether the Remuneration Tribunals Act 1973 covers technical and further education institutions which resulted from the creation of the Tertiary Education Commission which encompasses these institutions. It was never intended that the Tribunal should cover these institutions and the effect of the Bill will be to exclude them. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Klugman)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 3172  (Hansard,  7 June 1979, page 3 143). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On the basis of the information available to me I understand that agreement was reached between all member States of the European Community on 20 September 1976 that, subject to minor modifications, electoral procedures for the first direct elections should be governed by the national provisions of each member State. 
The election to the European Parliament held_in June 1 979 was the first such election and therefore no specific provisions were made to subsidise electoral expenses and control electoral donations in these elections. 
I can only say that there is no such proposition before the Government at this stage and I would be very surprised if this Government would ever consider such a proposition. 
The Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia published their preliminary redistribution proposals on 27 August 1979. In accordance with the procedure that I outlined to this House on 3 April 1979, I present for the information of honourable members a paper prepared by the Australian Electoral Office which reconstructs the results of the 1974, 1975 and 1977 House of Representatives elections in terms of the Commissioner's preliminary proposals. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) An analysis of the accounting records of the Department of Administrative Services indicates that the total expenditure on services and facilities made available to  Mr Miller  in his capacities as  Chairman  of the Silver Jubilee Commemorative Organisation and Special Adviser for the Australian Bicentennial Celebrations was $585,580. The expenditure was incurred as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) The information sought on the thousands of properties concerned in the reply to this question is not readily available from the Department's card records and I am not prepared at this time to direct staff resources away from important day to day work to assemble this detailed information. 
A computer record system is being developed but it will be a year or more before the type of detail requested could be readily provided. 
However, if the honourable member has a particular interest in any specific property I would be pleased to try and provide a response. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member has asked similar questions of all Ministers and my Department has collated the information provided. A number of departments/authorities which operate large fleets of vehicles have been unable to provide information in the form requested. The structure of departmental fleets is in a continuous state of change owing to the normal disposals and replacements of vehicles. Some departments and authorities have advised that, considering the number of vehicles involved, data concerning the tare and average fuel consumption for each vehicle would be costly to extract from individual records. 
The information which has become available relates to vehicles operated within Australia by all Commonwealth departments, statutory authorities and business undertakings. 
1 ) (a) Approximately 1 1,400, which includes local and overseas makes. Details of individual makes by number and tare are not readily available. 
Approximately 32,000, which includes local and overseas makes. Details of individual makes by number and tare are not readily available. 
Approximately 3,900 which includes local and overseas makes. Breakdown of individuals makes by number is not readily available. 
The above figures do not include Defence general service (operational) vehicles. 
Because more detailed information is not available in respect of ( 1 ), it is not possible to provide all the average fuel consumption figures sought by the honourable member. However, fuel consumption was recently monitored in respect of vehicles owned by my Department. The following fuel consumption figures, expressed in kilometres per litre as requested, were returned: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The officers appointed to the Joint Police Group set up to investigate the allegations made against unnamed officer(s) of the Federal Narcotics Bureau are: 
Assistant Commissioner J. R. Hall- Victoria Police 
Detective Inspector T. Pointing-Queensland Police 
Detective Inspector D. J. Keeghan-Commonwealth 
Police 
Detective Sergeant First Class J. Lucas-New South Wales Police 
Herbicides Used in Construction of Roads  (Question No. 4371) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It is standard practice to notify Commonwealth drivers by radio about adverse traffic conditions which come to notice. As there is normally no record of these notifications, it is not possible to say whether a radio announcement was made about traffic conditions in the Dynan Road and New Footscray Road areas on 26 July 1979. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Procedures governing the payment of toll costs for the use of the West Gate Bridge by Commonwealth drivers have been under examination. It is proposed to introduce a system whereby drivers will be issued with prepaid vouchers to use the Bridge. 
No. Guidelines which have been advised to drivers covering circumstances under which the Bridge can be used, are based on time and distance savings. There have been no rejections of claims made by drivers for reimbursement of toll charges. 
Written guidelines have been advised to drivers as to when to use the Bridge. At present a driver pays the toll and then submits a claim for reimbursement. See also ( I ) above. 
Under the present arrangements, the time taken to complete claims by drivers is minimal, as is the cost of processing these claims. The claims are processed with general items of petty cash and result in a negligible administrative cost. 
See above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Approximately 100. 
None. 
Under present arrangements claims made by drivers are reimbursed from petty cash. 
Should rejection of a claim occur, the driver can appeal through the normal administrative processes. 
I thank the honourable member for Macquarie for this question because it does demonstrate a clear distinction between the policies of the Opposition and the policies of the coalition parties. The coalition parties would be opposed to public funding of political campaigns. I draw the attention of the House, and of the Australian public for that matter, to the resolutions carried at the last Australian Labor Party Conference in Adelaide in July and, in particular, to some of the items of principle which were approved at the conference. In the official document, Item No. 32 stated - 
-1 appreciate that remark because it means that the honourable member for Robertson is in support of these philosophies. 
-The Opposition is bound by them, there is no question about it. 
Whatever he thinks personally, he has no choice. Item 32 refers to the payment of proportionate subsidies by governments to political parties and candidates. It was approved in principle. I note that the item refers to 'governments', which means all governments, State and Federal. I make reference to the inquiry which the New South Wales Government currently has under way into public funding and the statement by the Premier of South Australia,  Mr Corcoran,  that he would consider the matter. 
The Australian Labor Party certainly supports public funding of political parties but I think it is fair for us to ask: How much does it think ought to be spent on public funding? Unfortunately I do not see the member for Port Adelaide. He is not here today and he was not here yesterday either. I presume he is campaigning in South Australia. We need to look at the statements of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who is the shadow Minister dealing with these matters. In April he suggested in this House that a sum of $ 10m - 
-The sum of $ 10m of taxpayers' funds should be made available out of general revenue and distributed to parties in proportion to the number of votes received at the previous election. He tabled the whole of the legislation under which electoral matters are conducted in Sweden. I have checked up on the cost of applying Swedish law to Australia. In Australian dollars, the cost to the taxpayers would be over $50m. However, the Labor Party is committed to $ 10m. Taking the last election as the base, the amount of taxpayers' money which would be appropriated to the Labor Party for public funding at elections would be just under $4m. The Liberal Party would receive a little less, and the National Country Party a little less. 

 Mr Morris- On a point of order,  Mr Acting Speaker,  would the Minister pay the House the courtesy of explaining the diversion of public revenues to the Bjelke-Petersen Foundation by the National Party in Queensland? 
For the information of honourable members I present the interim annual report of the Australian Electoral Office 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The breakdown of costs, including advances, brought to account in Australia up to 29 August1 979 is shown below. 
For the information of honourable members I present an interim statement of the Department of Administrative Services 1978-79. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia, as with Britain and New Zealand provides one of the British Phosphate Commissioners, (BPC). Australia's current representative is  Mr M.  C. Timbs. 
Yes. 
Two separate offers have been made to the Banaban community, following proceedings instituted by the Banabans in 1974 in the UK High Court through two actions: 
against the BPC (the ' Replanting' case) for damages in respect of alleged failure to replant certain minedover areas on Ocean Island. The Court awarded unspecified damages which were not to be 'nominal' nor 'very large'. In attempting to achieve settlement the BPC offered the Banabans $A1.25m; the Banabans sought $A7m. The Judge then delivered judgment at $A75 an acre amounting to $A 14,000. The BPC renewed their offer of$A1.25m provided no appeal was made against the Court's decision. This offer was accepted and the moneys have been paid to the Council of Banaban Leaders. 
against the British Crown (the 'Royalties' case) for damages in respect of alleged insufficient royalties collected for phosphate rock mined on Ocean Island and unjust apportionment of the royalties collected. 
The Court rejected these claims in May 1977. However, an ex-gratia offer of $A 10m to a trust fund was then made to the Banaban people by the three partner Governments to assist them in establishing themselves in their new island home of Rabi, in the Fiji group. The offer did not include interest accumulating between the date of presentation and settlement. This offer was also subject to the Banabans agreeing to refrain from further litigation. It is understood that the offer has been orally accepted in principle but a formal settlement is still awaited. The funds are to come from the surplus of the BPC. 
The Banabans have sought agreement to the accumulation of interest since the offer was originally made. When a settlement appeared imminent late last year, the three partner Governments agreed to pay interest accumulated on the $Al0m up to 31 December 1978. Advice on formal settlement is awaited before any further consideration will be given to a further extension of interest accumulation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) $44,25 1 (estimated). 
2 ) The advertisement appeared on: 16 July 1979 in: Financial Review, The Australian, Canberra Times, Sydney Morning Herald, Daily Telegraph, The Sun, Daily Mirror, Melbourne Age, Sun News Pictorial, Melbourne Herald, Brisbane Telegraph, Adelaide Advertiser, Adelaide News, West Australian, Perth Daily News. 17 July 1979 in: Hobart Mercury, Launceston Examiner. 
D'Arcy MacManus &amp; Masius Pty Ltd. Some accounts are still to be presented but the estimated costs are $6,950 for preparation and production and $37,301 for newspaper space. In accordance with standard Australian Government Advertising Service procedures, these payments will be made through the Commonwealth's main Press Placing/Charging agency, Berry Currie Advertising (NSW) Pty Ltd. 
The Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd annual report for 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission's first report on special assistance for the Northern Territory 1979. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 I present the Commonwealth Grants Commission report on special assistance for States 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The details which the honourable member seeks are not readily available from records in my Department or in the Australian Electoral Office. Information about the terms of office of Members and Senators is published in the Australian Parliamentary Handbooks. However, I would not feel justified in directing the allocation of the considerable time and resources which would be involved in extracting that information from published sources on behalf of the honourable member. 
As far as can be ascertained Norway and the United States are the only Western liberal democracies which impose a fixed term of office for parliamentary representatives, that is, democracies in which the parliament cannot be dissolved before the expiry of its term and in which the Parliament cannot extend its term of office. 
by leave- During 1977 and 1978 the Joint Committee on Publications conducted a comprehensive review of the operations of the Australian Government Publishing Service- AGPS- since its inception in 1 969. In its report, presented to Parliament on 23 November 1978, the Committee concluded that the concept of a central government publishing office is sound and has led to a vast improvement in the standard of Commonwealth publications and their availability to the public. 
While the Committee commented favourably on AGPS achievements in applying standards in the design and style of publications, in bringing a new expertise to the central procurement of printing and in effecting a wider and more efficient distribution of publications through government bookshop and mail order services, it was critical of a number of matters. In presenting the Committee's report to this House, its  Chairman, Mr Hodges,  expressed concern that the application of staff ceiling controls throughout the Department of Administrative Services, in which the AGPS is located, had led to a reduction in its services or their decentralisation to other departments. He proposed that AGPS be re-established as a semi-autonomous and commercially independent body. 
It is true that AGPS has been experiencing difficulty through continuing growth in business volume at a time when the Government has been following a general policy of restraint in staffing. I can, however, assure the Committee that the Government has no intention of abandoning or decentralising to departments those AGPS functions which are most efficiently performed centrally. AGPS is already a separately identifiable organisation within the Department of Administrative Services. Honourable members will be aware that even statutory authorities are subject to staffing restraints and I see no particular purpose being achieved by providing greater autonomy for AGPS at present. 
The Committee also suggested that AGPS operations should be placed on a more commercial footing. The Publishing Service, however, does not operate in a completely commercial environment. Because of the special nature of government activities it is subject at times to demands not encountered in the private sector and must act within government policies and procedural arrangements. Nevertheless some scope is seen for adopting more commercial methods and the Government is arranging for these possibilities to be explored. 
The Committee devoted a good deal of attention to the operations of the Government Printing Office, which has since 1 970 functioned as a branch of AGPS. The Government believes there is a need to define more precisely the role of the Government Printer and his relationship with other elements of the Publishing Service. It accepts the Committee's suggestion that a charter of printing and publishing responsibilities be drawn up and approved. It does not, however, agree in all details with the statement of responsibilities included in Chapter 18 of the Committee 's report. 
It is the Government's belief, for example, that the Government Printing Office is an agency of the Government, not the Parliament. It could not be contemplated that the Parliament could direct the Government Printer to give priority to  all parliamentary work at the expense of crucially urgent government tasks. Satisfactory arrangements already exist with the Presiding Officers for the printing of parliamentary publications and the Government Printer allocates priorities during parliamentary sittings to ensure that documents required for Parliament are produced within the required times. 
The suggestion that departments be compelled to place general printing orders valued at more than $500 with or through the Government Printing Office has been rejected as likely to add to delays and costs. It follows that the Government sees no advantage in separating the Government Printing Office from the other elements of AGPS. Alternative means will be found for ensuring that, following a review of its plant and equipment, the productive capacity of the Printing Office is adequately utilised, including allowing the Printing Office to compete on an appropriate commercial basis for general printing work. 
Finally, the Government is unable to accept the Committee's proposals for a Board of Review with supervisory responsibilities over Commonwealth printing and publishing, including power to direct departments and statutory authorities on matters associated with their publishing programs. Such a body would cut across the executive responsibilities of Ministers and permanent heads. The Government, however, recognises the need for a broader base in developing policies and procedures connected with printing and publishing and has decided to establish a standing interdepartmental committee to act as a point of reference for AGPS and to advise its Minister. 
Many other matters were covered in the Committee's report. Of the 108 recommendations requiring a response from the Government, 42 have been accepted fully and 21 with some modification. A further 8 have been deferred until reviews have been completed. The Government's response to each of the Committee's recommendations is set out in the attachment to this statement. I present the following paper: 
Australian Government Publishing Service- Ministerial statement, 18 October 1979. 
I seek leave to have the attachment to this statement incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek your indulgence to comment on one small matter. 
-I respond briefly on a matter, not directly associated with the report, which was mentioned by the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  who responded on behalf of the Opposition. The Opposition was given copies of" the statement at quarter past nine this morning in accordance with the normal practice. The Government has not broken down on this practice. The fact that the honourable member did not receive a copy of the statement was really a problem with the Opposition, not the Government. 
I do not have in my mind the detail with which to answer that question. I will provide the information as soon as possible. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Flooding at the Australian Embassy in Paris on the evening of 3 June 1979 was confined to the second basement (lowest) level beneath the apartment block. Water rose to a height of one metre and caused damage to pumps, electrical installations, flooring and a quantity of maintenance spares. 
The cost of repair, cleaning and replacement of damaged equipment and materials is estimated at $250,000. Action to recover costs through the contractors' insurance companies is being pursued by the Embassy's lawyers with the assistance of the Commonwealth Crown Solicitors Office. 
No. 
The flooding resulted from an inspection plug on a sewerage/storm water line in the basement being blown out under pressure by an abnormally excessive build-up of water in the public drainage system. The rainfall in the area was officially recorded as being 38.5 mm in the space of one hour. It is also reported that there were 300 other buildings in Paris with flooded basements after the storm. 
A new inspection plug has been installed and strengthened with additional bracing. A team of consultant experts has been engaged to examine and report on the drainage system, including its design. 
Diplomatic Relations with Malta  (Question No. 4815) 
-It took the honourable member so long to come to the stomach of his question that I was not able to ascertain the pertinent facts. The position is that the Australian Information Service is apolitical. I would have liked to place on record the exact comparison of the expenditure under the Australian Labor Party liaison service and that of our own information service. From memory I think honourable members will find that the figure spent by the Whitlam Government on the liaison service was about $100,000 a year more than is spent by the Australian Information Service. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to consider in one motion, firstly, that each of the proposed expenditures covered in the report of Estimates Committee A be agreed to, and secondly, that the expressions of opinion of Estimates Committee A be noted. This procedure has been discussed with the Opposition which has raised no objection to what is proposed. 
I thank the honourable member for that question. I have seen the article to which he referred. It was, I think, in the  Bulletin  of a couple of days ago. My direct reply to the honourable member is that the suggestion is completely false. There is no bungle in connection with the bicentennial celebration arrangements. The article is spread over five pages. It is shot through with inaccuracies. It contains plenty of questions but is very light on answers. I would like to take a moment of the time of the House to deal with a couple of the charges made in the article. In the first place, the article, which was written by  Mr Denis  O'Brien, states: 
It is only fair to say, though, that the whole show would be shaping up far more prominently if it hadn't lost the guiding hand of Harry M.Miller early in 1979. 
The writer of the article is suggesting that that is the reason the alleged bungles are occurring. He went on to say that  Mr Miller  resigned. In fact, the House knows what happened. The arrangements in connection with  Mr Miller's  appointment were terminated. It is significant to note that the person who wrote the article was employed in my Department and at that time was assisting  Mr Miller  in the bicentennial arrangements. I think the whole thrust of the article is coloured by the views of the writer, whose appointment also was terminated. 
He went on in the article to attack us on the delay in getting on with the job. He said that in April the Prime Minister appointed  Mr Reid  as  Chairman  of the Australian Bicentennial Authority, which is correct. He said that after months of silence, with nothing happening, finally the winner of the logo competition was announced on 1 1 October. I would have thought that was pretty good progress. I hold up the winning design for the benefit of the House and you,  Mr Speaker,  as you were present at that ceremony, as was the Prime Minister. It is interesting to note that the designer of the logo is a citizen of the Australian Capital Territory. Steps are being taken to protect the design for the Commonwealth and shortly we will introduce the necessary legislation. The logo will then be usable and income will flow to the Authority. I will take only a moment more of the time of the House to deal with a couple of other inaccuracies in this article. Later in the article  Mr O'Brien  said: 
At the moment, the Authority would seem to be a oneman business. There has been no public announcement of any of the 16 appointments to the board . . . 
That is quite true, but within the next two weeks there will be an announcement on the appointment of 16 people to the board, two of whom will be members of this House. The writer of the article went on to say that there had been no word about who was to become the general manager of the Authority. 
This publication is dated 30 October. An announcement was made nearly two weeks ago on who would be the manager of the Authority. I table the Press release that was put out at the time, just to satisfy the honourable member for Reid. Summing up and having regard to your patience,  Mr Speaker,  let me say that the Bicentennial Authority arrangements are coming along very well.  Mr Reid,  the  Chairman  of the Authority, is doing what I believe will be proven to be a first-class job. I refute all of the inaccurate arguments which are in that article. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service 1978-79, together with the text of a statement by the Minister for Science and the Environment relating to the report. 
Pursuant to section 44 of the Australian Institute of Marine Science Act 1972 I present the report of the Australian Institute of Marine Science 1978-79. 
Pursuant to section 24 (4) of the Metric Conversion Act 1970 I present the ninth report of the Metric Conversion Board covering the year ending 30 June 1979. The Board has continued to carry out is functions in achieving the object of the Act, and no amendments have been made to the Act or regulations introduced. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the committee has duly reported to Parliament: Relocation of Royal Australian Navy research laboratory to Pyrmont, NSW. 
The proposal concerns the relocation of the Royal Australian Navy research laboratory from unsatisfactory accommodation at Rushcutters Bay to the Royal Edward Victualling Yard premises at Pyrmont. The works proposed include alteration and renovation of an existing eight-storey building to provide office space, research laboratories and workshop areas. The historical status of the building will be preserved. Construction of a perimeter security fence, gate control, official vehicle garage and flammable liquids store are also included in the proposal. The estimated cost of the proposed work when examined by the Committee was $2. 54m at February 1979 prices. 
In reporting favourably on the proposed work the Committee recommended that the research laboratories immediate and long-term requirements should be satisfactorily resolved prior to its relocation following the completion of the work in late 1981. The requirements referred to relate to car parking and berthing services. These are already being processed and the Government is confident that the requirements will be resolved by late 1981. The Committee also recommended that every effort be made by the Department of Defence to advance the date for the transfer of the naval stores from the Royal Edward Victualling Yard to Zetland before the relocation of the Royal Australian Navy research laboratory. The Government has noted this recommendation and every effort will be made to advance this transfer. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 it is expedient to cany out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of crop adaptation laboratory, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Black Mountain, Acton, Australian Capital Territory. 
The proposed work is for the construction of a laboratory building to provide facilities for the crop adaptation program being undertaken by the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation's Division of Plant Industry. The building is to be located on a site within the CSIRO complex at Black Mountain, Acton, Australian Capital Territory. The facilities will comprise laboratories, support areas and administrative accommodation and service areas. Special facilities will include built-in growth cabinets, constant and controlled temperature rooms and glass houses. Provision will also be made for car parking, landscaping and the replacement of several small structures on the building site. The estimated cost of the proposed work examined by the Committee was $2.8m at June 1979 prices. The Committee recommended construction of the work in the reference. Upon the concurrence of the House in this motion, detailed planning can proceed in accordance with the recommendations of the Committee. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969 the following proposed work be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works for consideration and report: Rehabilitation of Radio Australia facilities, Cox Peninsula, Northern Territory. 
This proposal is for the rehabilitation of Radio Australia facilities at Cox Peninsula, which were either destroyed or damaged by the tropical Cyclone Tracy in December 1974, with a view to allowing the resumption of full transmission service by the end of 1982. The proposal comprises: 
Restoration of access jetty and new wharf head; repair and structural upgrading of buildings including services; provision of new staff accommodation; repair and replacement of submarine power cables; miscellaneous repairs to roads, fencing and engineering services; and replacement of transmitting aerials, associated transmission lines and switching facilities. The estimated cost of the proposal at September 1979 prices is $10m. I table drawings of the proposed works. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill and the Ministers of State Amendment Bill 1979, as they are related matters. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
I seek leave to move together the amendments circulated, I think yesterday, in my name. 
Leave granted. 
-I move: 
. Page 3, after clause S, insert the following new clause: "5a. (1) Determination Number 9 of 1979 of the Remuneration Tribunal dated 5 June 1979 relating, among other matters, to the travelling allowances to be paid to members of the Parliament by reason of their holding particular offices, or performing particular functions, in or in relation to the Parliament or either House of the Parliament is modified with effect from the commencement of this section by omitting paragraph 20 and substituting the following paragraph: 
A senator or member who is a shadow minister may, when travelling outside his electorate in the performance of duties or functions connected with his office of shadow minister, be paid travelling allowance in respect of not more than forty overnight stays per annum.'. "(2) Determination Number 9 of 1 979 of the Remuneration Tribunal as modified by sub-section ( 1 ) has effect as if it were a determination of the Remuneration Tribunal.". 
Clause 6, page 3, line 23, omit "or 5 ", substitute ", 5 or 5a". 
The purpose of the amendments is to retain a limitation of 40 overnight stays on the payment of travelling allowances to shadow Ministers when travelling in that capacity. The travelling allowance, in addition to that payable to senators and members, was first introduced for shadow Ministers in 1976. At that time a limit of 20 overnight stays was prescribed. This limit was raised in 1978 to 40 overnight stays. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Bill be now read a third time. 
Normally at this time one would thank all honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I do that now even though I thank some less warmly than others. But I think if I respond to the matters raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  that will cover just about all the matters raised by other honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I took some notes of what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had to say on several occasions. The first point that he made- this has been made by other Opposition members- was that the Opposition believed that the determinations of the Remuneration Tribunal should not be subject to disallowance by Parliament or be debated in the Parliament. I am sure that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition will remember saying that. He has certainly been supported by other speakers today. The Remuneration Tribunals Act was the work of the Whitlam Labor Government. That Government invoked the disallowance provisions in relation to the August 1975 review. 
-The Opposition when in Government invoked those provisions. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and others have made the point that the Government should provide shadow Ministers with additional staff as determined by the Tribunal in its 1978 review. He will remember saying that. This Government has been far more generous in the provision of staff for the Opposition, with 44 positions, than was the Whitlam Labor Government, which provided only 38 staff positions to be shared by the two coalition parties. Ministers now are provided with less staff- 198 positions compared with 244 positions during the period of the Whitlam Government. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that while denying the Opposition staff which was awarded by the Tribunal, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  had increased his staff. Specifically, the 
Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that the Prime Minister had set up a special press group that was conducting a public relations exercise. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is nodding his head. He remembers saying that. That has been said by others in this debate. This Government has provided staff for these particular positions: The Government Information Unit, four positions; State co-ordination officers, six positions; government parties support secretariat, five positions; making a total of 15 positions. Even when one adds the number of those positions to the 198 positions for Ministers and the three positions for the Government Whips, the total is 216. So the present number is very much less than the 244 positions provided to Ministers in the Whitlam Government. 
The next point I make is that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that decisions announced in the statement were made in one office and are not decisions of a government, nor were they discussed by the Government parties. The fact is that Cabinet made the decisions and reviewed the statement on a number of occasions as I well know because I had the carriage of that matter. Another point that he made was that twice yearly indexation of members salaries had been rejected because the Government- he did not say this today but in August when the statement was put down- has failed to adhere to its promise in respect of pensioners. He will remember saying that. I think that very night the twiceyearly indexation of pensions was announced. In a speech on 9 September 1975, towards the end of the Whitlam Labor Government's term of office, the then Special Minister of State,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, when moving for the disallowance of the August 1975 determinations, gave as the reason: 
The Government feels that a remuneration within the tribunal 's jurisdiction should be adjusted only once per annum. 
That was the position stated by the present Opposition when it was in Government. 
-That is 1975, which is not such a heck of a long way back. Another significant point out of which a couple of speakers- in particular, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition- made considerable capital was the cost of the Government Information Unit. I wish to place this information on the record if for no other reason than the fact that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition raised the matter. The cost of salaries, allowances and overtime for 
Press secretaries to Ministers and the Prime Minister in the calendar year 1975- the last year of the Labor Government-was $380,200. The total cost of salaries, allowances and overtime for Press secretaries to Ministers and the Prime Minister in the calendar year 1979 was $197,800. There is quite a significant difference there. The cost of the Australian Government Liaison Service, as it was then called, during the last year of the Whitlam Government was $3 1 5,500. 
It was $315,500. The total of these two items comes to nearly $700,000. The total cost of the Government Information Unit for the first 1 1 months- I agree that period has passed- was $108,500. The total cost of this propaganda- I think that is the word that was used- under the Whitlam Government in 1975 was almost $700,000, in 1975 dollars. The total cost in 1978 under this Government was $306,000, which is less than half of the cost under Labor. I would like to mention a couple of other relevant points. During the period of the former Labor Government there were 27 Ministers and 27 Press secretaries, plus four journalists in Canberra and six journalists in the States. Under this Government there are six Press secretaries, plus the unit which I have just spoken about. I would like to intrude a slight degree of partisan politics here just to make up for some of the heavy material that has been unloaded on us in the last few minutes. I make the point that in the Labor States of New South Wales 19 Ministers have 22 Press secretaries; in the former South Australian Government which was defeated just recently in an election there were 13 Ministers and 14 Press secretaries; and in the Tasmanian Government at the moment there are 10 Ministers and eight Press secretaries. I do not really think that the Labor Administration can ever afford to make too much noise about its restraint in this area of so-called propaganda. 
I would like at the same time to read to the House, so that it will be on the record forever, the guidelines for the appointment of the State coordination officers. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition spent some considerable time discussing this matter. These representatives will be members of the staff of the Minister in the State concerned who represents the Prime Minister in Federal-State affairs. He will not be a Press secretary. He will operate on behalf of all Ministers and service Ministers and members in the State. He will be responsible for practical operational purposes to the Government Information Unit in Canberra. He will report regularly on significant State issues which have or could have relevance to the Government. He will also disseminate effectively government information in his State. He will particularly assist Ministers in the most effective use of their time during visits to the States. He will liaise and communicate with Ministers and members, State and Federal, the media, and State and Federal party organisations. He will operate in the State concerned and will not travel with the Minister to whose office he is attached. They are the guidelines. They are on the record permanently. 
I do not have very much more to say. I want to get the Bill through more than anything else. I refer to determination No. 9, which was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I think a couple of other speakers mentioned it also. This concerns the travelling allowances of Whips. In determination No. 9 the Tribunal provided for the first time a travelling allowance for the three Whips in this chamber when travelling to Canberra on duties connected with their office when the Parliament is not sitting. Now the Opposition wants this arrangement to extend to the Senate Whips. It says that this is a slip on the part of the Tribunal- perhaps it is- and that in some way we should be criticised for not sponsoring the payment of the allowance to Senate Whips. The position is that if we examine the submissions that were put to the Tribunal, including the Australian Labor Party submission, we see that this matter was not even mentioned and that there was no submission from the Whips themselves. The only other point I wish to make relates to the question raised by the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  on the number of nights on which travelling allowances should apply to shadow Ministers. I make the point that in the letter which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition mentioned that the Prime Minister had written, the Prime Minister referred to shadow Ministers, but he also went on to say that in line with the long-standing practice in relation to Ministers during election campaigns the travelling allowance of a shadow Minister will cease from the date on which the Leader of the Opposition delivers the Opposition policy speech. The same principle applies to Government Ministers in relation to the Prime Minister's policy speech. I conclude with the point that this travelling allowance did not apply at any time while the Labor Party was in government. The Tribunal made a determination in 1976 and it was adopted. We were in government then. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 - Mr Speaker, may I suggest that it might suit the convenience of the House to consider in one motion, firstly, that each of the proposed expenditures covered in the report of Estimates Committee B be agreed to, and secondly, that the resolution and expression of opinion by Estimates Committee B be noted. This procedure has been discussed with the Opposition, which has raised no objection to what is proposed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I take it that the honourable member's question draws upon the headings shown in Division 155 in Appropriation Bill No. 1 and Division 817/5 in Appropriation Bill No. 2. The item 155/04 'Contribution to operating expenses- Food Services' concerns cafeterias conducted by Commonwealth Accommodation and Catering Services Ltd in Government departments and does not deal with food services in migrant centres. 
For the other three items mentioned, approximately 75 per cent of the costs in the current financial year can be attributed to caring for refugees, and the remaining 25 per cent to caring for sponsored migrants selected under NUMAS. Negligible numbers of migrants in the family reunion category are accommodated in migrant centres. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The basic salaries for Ministers and Members of the Commonwealth Parliament since 1970-71 have been: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia-based officers posted to Australian missions overseas occupy residential accommodation owned or leased by the Commonwealth except in North America and the United Kingdom where officers are mainly responsible for their own accommodation arrangements. 
The Commonwealth is responsible for rental payments on Commonwealth leased accommodation. Officers occupying Commonwealth owned, Commonwealth leased and privately leased accommodation are required to make a rental contribution in accordance with conditions determined by the Public Service Board. 
A breakdown of rental costs on a departmental basis is not available. It is estimated however that rental payments in 1979-80 on Commonwealth leased residential accommodation will approximate S9.Sm for 801 accommodation units. 
I am not aware of all the facts- I am sure they are facts- that the honourable member for Fadden has given us. I have not had any discussions with the Minister for Science and the Environment on this matter in recent times.  Mr Speaker,  I have to confess to you, to the House and to the honourable member, that I am as completely confused as he is. I cannot understand why we cannot advertise in, say, acres and talk about hectares but put them in brackets. In my own State of South Australia - 
-I do not even know the measurement for height. In my own State it is illegal, in fact, to advertise using the two different sorts of measurements. We have become accustomed to this. For example, if one wishes to obtain the services of a fireman in South Australia one has to advertise for a fire-person. 
For the information of honourable members I present a direction to the Commissioner of Australian Federal Police, pursuant to sub-section 13 (2) of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

The future use of the Commonwealth owned site in Church Street, Parramatta is to be considered in the context of an overall review of Commonwealth office accommodation in Sydney. 
No. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will recall that the creation of the Australian Federal Police was the central recommendation contained in the 'Report to the Minister for Administrative Services on the Organisation of Police Resources in the Commonwealth Area and Other Related Matters' by  Sir Robert  Mark. All honourable members are aware that that recommendation has been embodied in the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 which received royal assent on 15 June 1979. Subsequently all provisions of this Act were proclaimed by  His Excellency,  the Governor-General in Council, on 19 October 1979, and the Australian Federal Police officially commenced operations on that date. The purpose of the Australian Federal Police (Consequential Amendments) Bill is to make amendments to existing Commonwealth legislation consequential to the enactment of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. These amendments are primarily aimed at changing references to Australian Federal Police from references to Commonwealth Police, as well as to preserve rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act, where appropriate, to members of the Australian Federal Police. 
Specifically, this Bill provides for amendments to existing legislation, as set out in the Schedule to the Bill, to come into operation, or be deemed to have come into operation, on the date fixed for the coming into operation of the remaining provisions of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. As previously mentioned this date was 19 October 1979. 
The one exception to this, as set out in clause 2, sub-clause (2), amends sections 87 and 87j of the Public Service Act 1922, which are in relation to the preservation of rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act, which are to come into operation on the date of the commencement of section 32 of the Public Service Amendment Act 1978. This is in line with assurances that have been given by Ministers that jobs, career prospects and terms and conditions of employment of members of the previous two police forces will not be at risk. In this instance, the amendments provide for the preservation by some former Commonwealth Police officers, who have been appointed to the Australian Federal Police, of their rights under the Officers' Rights Declaration Act in respect of their former service in the Australian Public Service. 
The Schedule sets out in detail those Acts which are to be amended consequential to the enactment of the Australian Federal Police Act 1979. Apart from amending references from Commonwealth Police to the Australian Federal Police, they also provide consequential amendments to such Acts as the Superannuation Act, the Public Service Act and the Audit Act for reference to the Commissioner of Police and Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Australian Federal Police. I have arranged for an explanatory memorandum and notes on clauses to be distributed to all honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
Honourable members will be aware of the Government's policy to strengthen the parliamentary system and to enable Parliament adequately to review the activities of government administration. One facet of this process is the broadening of parliamentary scrutiny of public expenditure. As an early step the Government agreed to the establishment of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure on 29 April 1976 in response to the need for a greater in-depth examination of public expenditure in relation to effectiveness and economy in the delivery of given Government policy. As a further step the Bill now before honourable members to amend the Public Accounts Committee Act 1951 is designed to strengthen the Joint Parliamentary Committee of Public Accounts. 
In introducing the measures contained in this Bill, the Government's aim is to bring within the Committee's purview a range of statutory authorities and other governmental bodies currently subject to the Committee's examination only insofar as information on these bodies is contained in the Auditor-General's annual report or supplements to it. This is to be brought about by giving the Committee the power to examine, on its own initiative, the financial affairs of all statutory and other government bodies. The only exceptions are to be the Northern Territory and the administrations of the external Territories, and inter-governmental bodies. The Government has decided that in view of the changed and changing relationships between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory, and the external Territories, the financial affairs of their present and future administrations should not be subject to scrutiny by the Committee. Expenditure incurred by Commonwealth departments in the Territories would continue to be subject to scrutiny by the Committee. The Bill provides for a special procedure with respect to bodies jointly established by the Commonwealth with the Government of a State or States or with another country. In these cases, it would clearly be inappropriate for these bodies to be subject to examination by a committee of this Parliament without the express agreement of all the governments concerned. Where such agreement is forthcoming, however, the Committee will be able to examine the financial affairs of such bodies. A further development in the Committee's role is provided for in the Bill by enabling the Committee to examine special reports made to Parliament by the Auditor-General. 
Currently, the Committee is not empowered to examine reports to Parliament by the AuditorGeneral outside his annual report or supplements to it. In particular, the Government believes that when the Auditor-General makes a report to Parliament on the results of any efficiency audit, the matters contained therein should be examinable by the Committee. Henceforth, the information contained in all reports of the Auditor-General transmitted to the Parliament would be subject to the Committee's scrutiny, except insofar as the Territories and intergovernmental bodies are concerned. The opportunity has also been taken to introduce certain measures to improve the operations of the Committee. Sometimes the Committee has experienced difficulties in forming a quorum because many of its members are also members of other parliamentary Committees. It is therefore proposed to reduce the quorum from six members to four members. This proposal is in line with recommendations made by the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System in relation to certain other committees. A further provision would remove the present restrictions on the number of sectional committees- currently not more than two- that can exist at the same time. The change would enable more enquiries to be held simultaneously. For some time the legal position with respect to the Committee's power to meet anywhere in Australia and to sit during a parliamentary recess has not been clear. Amendments to the Bill have been included to remove these doubts. It is perhaps noteworthy that the Public Works Committee has both of these powers, and the Government believes that the same powers should be conferred on the Public Accounts Committee. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Cohen)  adjourned. 
Pursuant to section 23a of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 I present a copy of the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia, together with the maps referred to therein and a copy of the suggestions, comments and objections lodged with the Distribution Commissioners pursuant to sections 18a and 2 1 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. 
In accordance with the procedure outlined to this House on 3 April 1 979 1 present for the information of honourable members a paper prepared by the Australian Electoral Office which reconstructs the results of the 1974, 1975 and 1977 House of Representatives elections in terms of the proposals contained in the report of the Distribution Commissioners for Western Australia which I have just tabled. 
I am not in possession of any of the facts concerning that allegation. In fact I seem to remember that the honourable member has written a letter to me or he has put a question on notice about it. 
I have asked for a report. I do not have the information yet. When I receive it I will determine what, in my view, should be released and let the honourable gentleman have a reply. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes, I have read the answer given by the Minister for Transport to your question of 9 May 1979  (Hansard,  4 June 1979, page 2880). 
The International Standards and Recommended Practices concerning Security, as agreed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, deal with broad airport security measures and do not specify the. manpower required at a particular location, at any given time. 
The assessment of the number of police required to provide for airport security is a matter that is under continuous review. The review is based on an assessment of the intelligence available to the responsible authorities at the time. The manpower provided at a location is adjusted according to the intelligence assessment. 
Again, as in my answer to your question of 9 May 1 979, it is not in the national interest to reveal the details concerning Police establishments that you seek. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The polling hours in State elections in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania are 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., as they are in Federal elections. 
The polls close at 6 p.m. in the other three States. The earlier closing time was introduced in Queensland in 1 9 1 5, in New South Wales in 1975 and in Victoria in 1979. There is insufficient evidence available to determine whether or to what extent the introduction of shorter polling hours has inconvenienced the voters in these States. 
The Australian Electoral Office has acquired some strictly limited data, however, on the hours at which electors record their votes in Federal elections. A survey of the numbers of ballot papers requested at two-hourly intervals was taken in selected polling places in thirty-one Divisions on polling day, 10 December 1977. 
The sample of Divisions was not random, nor was it particularly representative of the distribution of Divisions between the States or between inner metropolitan, outer metropolitan and rural areas. Analysis suggests, however, that there is no reason to believe that the results themselves were not representative. 
The basic finding of that survey was that approximately twelve percent of those who voted did so between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. (seventeen percent of the time the polls are open). This, of course, says nothing about the ability of those electors voting after 6 p.m. to attend the polls earlier, only that eighty-eight percent of the electorate managed to do so in 1977. 
The Government is monitoring the changes in polling hours in the States and the effect that such changes may have on the ability of voters to attend the polls. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) Staff resources do not permit the compilation of the details requested from information held on a property by property basis. 
Yes. 
and (7) 25.662 1 hectares. Negotiations are proceeding for the transfer of the land to the State of New South Wales and it would not be appropriate at this time for me to disclose the valuation of the land. 
No. 
and ( 10) See reply to (8) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Details of the names, capacity, salary scale under which employed and the period of employment of each of the individuals are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Electoral Office has advised me that as far as it can ascertain there are no countries which set maximum age limits for parliamentary representatives. 
Minimum ages are set in all 56 countries described in the Inter-Parliamentary Union's publication  Parliaments of the World.  These include the following countries which are often described as ' Western liberal democracies ': 
Countries in which the age qualification for candidature is the same as that for voting: 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition did inform me a few moments ago that he had a copy of that advising to my predecessor. I note that he was careful in what he selectively quoted out of that document. I would not wish to be drawn into a direct reply about what he is implying. All I say is that I am sure that if he had received that advice he would have given authorisation in the same way as my predecessor did. 
I deny what the honourable gentleman asserts. He raises a question of law. Although I claim some things, I do not claim to be an authority on the law. Certainly, I agree that a grey area is developing about what is a telephone tap, what is a listening device and so on. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

I direct the attention of the honourable member for Adelaide to a Press release dealing with these matters that I put out on 2 October. In fact, I may even lay a copy of the release on the table so that the honourable member can have a look at it afterwards. I inform ' him and the House- I appreciate the opportunity to do so- that very shortly we will be producing a booklet entitled 'How to do Business with the Government'. That will canvass all of these matters. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1973 to enable references of inquiries into matters relating to financing of works and services provided in respect of the Australian Capital Territory to be considered by the Commonwealth Grants Commission. The Commonwealth Grants Commission presently performs three basic functions. Firstly, it inquires into and reports upon applications by States for special assistance, which is defined as financial assistance for the purpose of making it possible for the States concerned, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other States. It also inquires into and reports upon applications by the Northern Territory for special assistance. Secondly, it reviews the per capita relativities on which tax sharing assistance to the States is based. Thirdly, from time to time it advises on the percentage distribution as between the States of the local government tax sharing assistance. 
As a result of performing these functions the Commission has established a reputation as an independent expert body in relation to arrangements for financial assistance by the Commonwealth to the States and local government. Against this background, the Government considers it appropriate that the Commonwealth Grants Commission should also examine and advise government on matters referred to it from time to time in respect of the financing of works and services provided in the Australian Capital Territory. The Australian Capital Territory House of Assembly supports this approach. Residents of the Australian Capital Territory are required to pay municipal rates and State-like taxes in a manner similar to residents of the rest of the nation. The Commonwealth, in determining the recovery of costs incurred in the provision of services to the residents of Canberra, has regard to State practices in determining the level of local and State-like fees and charges. 
Consideration of Grants Commission reports on matters referred to the Commission will provide a valuable source of advice to the Government and will promote equity in decisions on finances affecting residents of the Territory. The unique nature of government in the Australian Capital Territory, whereby the Commonwealth is also responsible for State and local government functions, means that the Commonwealth has a responsibility towards the residents of the Territory as well as to the nation as a whole. The Commonwealth has always sought to achieve an equitable balance between these reponsibilities. The proposed amendments would not have any effect on existing financial arrangements between the States and the Commonwealth. I commend this Bill to the House. 
That is not within my responsibility. It will have to be left to the Leader of the House  (Mr Viner).  I think he would probably be well disposed towards the proposition. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have your indulgence to suggest that the House have a general debate covering this Bill, the Telecommunications (Interception) Amendment Bill 1979 and the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Amendment Bill 1979, as they are related measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. 
First of all, I thank all honourable members who have taken part in the debate. I thank those on both sides of the House, even those who have attempted to bruise us somewhat. It has been an interesting debate and I trust that the Opposition will cooperate in facilitating the passage of the legislation in the Committee stage. 
-Yes, it is goodwill week. I would like to comment on the somewhat similar statements made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett).  The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition complains that the Bills have just been introduced and that there has been no time to consider them in Caucus. The honourable member for Bonython says that the Bills have been introduced in the dying days of this sitting. That is true, but I think in fairness to the Government- and the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  has made this point- I should say that the Bills simply transfer from the disbanded Narcotics Bureau to the Australian Federal Police the powers that were debated at considerable length earlier this year. I think honourable members opposite who are nodding would agree with that. I do not think it is a fair criticism to say that there has been no opportunity to debate these provisions. At the same time, I would stress that I do not think any  speaker  has acknowledged the fact that under these Bills there is to be much more accountability by the Australian Federal Police than there was provided for in the original legislation concerning the Narcotics Bureau. I acknowledge the remarks of the honourable member for Fadden. This matter was discussed at great length at meetings of the Government parties committees last week. Under this legislation the Commissioner of the Australian Federal Police is required to report in writing to the Minister, that is, the Minister for Administrative Services, with respect to the use made by the Federal Police of information obtained by using a listening device or a telephone interception in pursuance only of a warrant issued by a judge and with respect to whom the information was communicated. That provision was not present in the earlier legislation, and I want to emphasise that point. All honourable members acknowledge that there is much greater accountability by the police now than ever was expected of the Narcotics Bureau. All honourable members have expressed concern in this area. 
I think it would be useful- this is why I was anxious to take part in the debate at this stage- to place on record the safeguards which will apply to the police in respect of telephone intercept powers. In the first place, they can only be obtained on warrants for the purpose of narcotics inquiries. I think that is acknowledged by honourable members on both sides of the House. There can only be telephone intercepts if a judge issues a warrant after being satisfied on information on oath. That provision is no different now to what it was in the earlier legislation. 
-I cannot actually acknowledge the truth or otherwise of that interjection because that earlier legislation was not my responsibility. But my understanding is that a great deal of the fine tuning mentioned by honourable members opposite came as a result of consultations by the previous Minister with private members. 
The third point that I think is worthwhile putting on the record is that the police can only communicate any information about nonnarcotics activities- this point was raised by the honourable member for Bonython in particularobtained from any intercepts to other members of the police force or State and Northern Territory police forces if those activities relate to serious crimes with penalties of not less than three years' imprisonment and of course relate to Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and security matters. This legislation we are debating tonight makes it a criminal offence for a member of the Australian Federal Police to communicate intercept information in any other circumstance. One would have to admit that that is an increased safeguard. 
Under the regulations, it is also a disciplinary offence- and might I say that the police have a disciplinary code which the Narcotics Bureau did not have- for a member or special member of the Federal Police to make any unauthorised communication. The Commissioner of the Federal Police is accountable to report to the Minister on warrants applied for- this matter was raised by the honourable member for Faddenwarrants obtained and action taken on any information so obtained, whether used for narcotics inquiries or non-narcotics crime, and complaints by any person against the Federal Police. Action of this kind can be taken up with the Ombudsman who is empowered to investigate administrative action of the Federal Police on the matter. Might I say that in all the matters raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition members in this place and in the Senate in connection with the so-called social security frauds, no one has mentioned that only one complaint has been lodged with the Ombudsman. Any person aggrieved may lodge a complaint with the Ombudsman. But only one complaint that I know of has been lodged with the Ombudsman. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition can encourage other people to complain if he likes. I think it is a good idea. But I am making the point that of all those who are supposed to be aggrieved, only one has so complained. The Minister can, under section 13 (6) of the Police Act, require a report of the performance of the Federal Police of its functions in using these new means of telecommunications interception for its functions. Without giving the detail, I mention that I gave formal written direction-I tabled it in the Parliament about a fortnight ago pursuant to this Australian Federal Police Act 1979- that in the collection of all communication of information, the Federal Police and its members are to protect the privacy of individuals. That direction was as a result of a great deal of discussion on this side of the House. 
Honourable members opposite have made some attempt, not too successfully I hope, to make some capital out of the expression I used about the question of what constitutes 'tapping' being a grey area. I make the point that consistent advice to Ministers over the years from the Commonwealth Police has been that the Commonwealth Police does not telephone tap. That is also the advice given by my colleague in the Senate and I confirm it here and now. The Commonwealth Police acknowledges that the Minister for Administrative Services has no authority to authorise a telephone tap; he has authority only to authorise the placing of a listening device. Picking up the point made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I now carefully choose my words and say that following the speculation and doubts expressed as to the legality of certain practices in general use relating to the tape recording of telephone conversations- and by general use' I do not mean use by police or the Narcotics Bureau or anybody else but general use in the community- there are thousands of these machines in the community. I suspect that people in the Press Gallery have used them on all of us. Following that, the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and I - 
-I wish the Deputy Leader of the Opposition would allow me to put this on the record. The Attorney-General and I agreed that the Solicitor-General should be asked to express an opinion as to the legality of certain practices reported to be widely used for the recording of telephone conversations by one of the parties to the conversations. I would think that that would deal with whatever criticism the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is able to muster. 
I also make the point that it is not only Ministers of this Government who have had a responsibility for police. In 1972, there were three Ministers in the then Labor Government to whom the Commonwealth Police was responsible. In December 1972, the then AttorneyGeneral was the Honourable E. G. Whitlam. From 1972 to 1975,  Senator Murphy  was the Minister responsible; that is,  Senator Murphy  of raiding fame. From February 1975 to November 1975,  Mr Enderby  was the Attorney-General and the Commonwealth Police came within the ambit of the responsibility of that portfolio. One wonders whether any of those Ministers ever received advice that an application to place a listening device was sought. 
-What I am trying to prove is, as I said in the House the other day, that any Minister acting on the advice that my predecessor received would have done the same thing. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition shakes his head. If he shakes it any harder, it will fall off. 
It will rattle if there is something in it. I am making the very simple point that convention prevents us from asking whether such a situation ever happened when those Ministers were in government. I think it is reasonable to expect that it did. In 1972,  Mr Barnard  was the Minister responsible for the Australian Capital Territory police for a short period. He had ministerial control of the Australian Capital Territory police.  Senator Murphy  had ministerial control of the Australian Capital Territory police as did  Mr Enderby  and  Senator Cavanagh. 
Let us consider this matter even further and look at the telecommunications legislation. When Labor came to office in 1972,  Mr Barnard  was the responsible Minister then too. But interestingly, the present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition was the responsible Minister from 1 9 December 1972 to 12 June 1974. He was the Minister for whatever the portfolio was called in those days. 
-Of course nothing got past the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition because he did not have to make any decision. But if he were concerned about the interpretation of the Act and the law, which is what he and the honourable member for Bonython keep talking about, maybe he would have resolved it in those days. 
-The Deputy Leader of the Opposition says: 'Come on!' But nothing is different. That legislation was put through this Parliament in 1964. 
-It is not nonsense. I find that my dear friend and colleague from South Australia,  Senator Bishop,  is asking questions on this matter. If he had any of those views he could have discussed them and had the matter examined in those days. I also place on the record the fact that - 
Debate interrupted. 
The Government is opposed to the motion. 
Question put- 
That the motion  (Mr Lionel Bowen's)  be agreed to. 
I would like to hurry this matter. We have been sitting in this chamber for days waiting for the Opposition to ask a question. 
No, he did not. He said the "noes" have it'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1 979). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The information necessary to answer the honourable member's question is not readily available. To obtain the information, it would be necessary to carry out an extensive search of records throughout my Department in Canberra and the States. 
In view of the resources that would be needed to gather together the information sought, I am not prepared to ask my Depanment to carry out this work. If, however, the honourable member is prepared to indicate more precisely the information he seeks, I will see whether it can be provided. 
-For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Administrative Services 1978-79. 
I seek leave to make a short statement under section 5 (3b) of the Statutory Rules Publication Act 1 903. 
Leave granted. 
-Amendments of the Public Service (Salaries) Regulations, being Statutory Rules 1979 No. 220, were not available for purchase at the time of publication of the notice of their making in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  No. G 42 dated 23 October 1979, as required by subsection (3a) of Section 5 of the Statutory Rules Publication Act 1903. Copies of Regulations purporting to be Statutory Rules 1979 No. 220 were made available for purchase at the place specified in the notice on 23 October 1979. However, on 6 November 1979 printed copies as distributed were found to contain an error resulting from the inadvertent transposition of two lines of type during the final printing of the regulations. A corrected reprinting of the regulations was thereupon undertaken and correct copies were made available at the specified place on 12 November 1979. Distribution of the reprinted regulations has been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1971. (A Trade Commission had been established earlier, in 1964). 
(a)- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The specific nature of the Boeing 707 ground support equipment provided for in contracts 23-5180/79/2 and 23-1680/79/5 is- 
