My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. He would be aware that I have been making representations on behalf of the residents of Wyndham, Buckland and Garden Streets, South Sydney, who are disturbed at the action of the Government in reneging on commitments made by the previous Government in regard to low cost housing. Can the Minister inform me when I am likely to obtain a reply to my representation on behalf of the people who are disturbed at the possibility of being evicted from their homes? In view of the importance of the matter to residents and myself, will the Minister assure me that it will be dealt with as a matter of urgency? 
-Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I was in the House until it adjourned, like many of my colleagues. My personal explanation is in a similar vein. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I respectfully ask you to convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  and to the  Chairman  of Committees on their attainment of their high offices in this House. It is indeed a great honour and a privilege for me to succeed my friend, the honourable Jim Cope, a former  Speaker  of this House, a member for Sydney for the past 6 years of the 2 1 years he served in the national Parliament. Jim was respected and liked by all who served with him. I take this opportunity also to extend thanks to 3 former members of this House for their guidance and assistance. I refer to Dan Minogue, recognised as a prolific worker for the pensioners, Bill O'Connor, the former member for Dalley and also the late Eddie Ward, one-time member for East Sydney. They were prominent among many other friends and supporters. I feel it would be remiss if I did not pay tribute to  Mrs Elizabeth  Healey who is 97 years of age and has been a member of the Australian Labor Party for over 75 years. Despite being confined to a wheelchair she still works actively for the ALP as she has done most of her life. I thank this great old lady for her dedication to the ALP and her assistance to me. 
In tracing the role of the Labor Party in making Australia a better place to live in, one cannot overlook the part played by the trade union movement in New South Wales. Half the Australian Council of Trade Union membership is in New South Wales. There are over 800 000 unionists affiliated with the Labor Council of New South Wales. The bulk of the Federal unions have their offices in New South Wales. The trade union movement in the mother colony- New South Wales- was responsible for the first moves to start a political Labor Party. In June 1891 the Labor Party in Australia commenced when in the elections of that year 36 Labor candidates were elected to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly. The first branch of the Labor Party was formed on 4 April 1891- the Balmain branch- in what is now the electorate of Sydney. 
We of the Labor Party have an enduring commitment to a view about society. It is this: In modern countries opportunities are for all citizens, opportunities for a complete education, opportunities for dignity in retirement, opportunities for proper medical treatment, opportunities to share in the nation's wealth and resources, the opportunities for decent housing, the opportunities for civilized conditions in our cities and in our towns and the opportunities to preserve and promote the natural beauty of the land. These opportunities can be provided only if governments and the community itself acting through its elected representatives will provide them. The inequalities in our community now reflect not so much gross disparities in income but the failure of successive Liberal governments to create opportunities for the overwhelming majority of our people- the lower, the modest and the middle-income families- opportunities which only governments can make and increasingly in Australia the national Government must initiate those opportunities. 
Despite a hostile Senate and a media partial to the Liberal-Country Party coalition, the Labor Government after assuming office on 2 December 1972 had a magnificent record of achievement particularly in regard to social welfare, child care, education, health, legal aid and direct monetary grants to local government. Let us examine some of these achievements. Firstly, I will mention social welfare which has top priority because many age and invalid pensioners reside in my electorate of Sydney. Despite a period of world-wide inflation and recession from which no country has escaped repercussions we find that the Labor Government, living up to its promises, increased the basic rate of pension 6 times in 3 years. The first increase was back-dated to the first payday in December 1972. This was the first time that a pension increase had been back-dated since federation. In 1973, 2 adjustments were made; 2 adjustments in 1974; and 2 adjustments in 1975. The single age, invalid and widow basic rate of pension is $77.50 a fortnight. If a pensioner qualifies for supplementary allowance he receives $87.50 a fortnight. The combined married rate is $ 129 a fortnight. The unemployment and sickness benefit rate is also $77.50 a fortnight. Recipients of long-term sickness benefits, if eligible for supplementary allowance, receive $87.50 a fortnight. 
It will be recalled that previous LiberalNational Country Party coalition governments saw fit to discriminate against various recipients of social welfare benefit. Class B and class C widows received a lower rate of pension than an A class widow. That injustice was corrected and the B and C class widows now receive the same standard rate as an A class widow. In addition, unmarried mothers now qualify for pensions. Previous to the Labor Party assuming office in December 1972, unemployment and sickness benefit rates were much below that of the age pension rate. This injustice has also been rectified. 
One of the finest achievements of the Labor Government- incidentally it is an achievement which received very little publicity from the antiLabor media- was the granting of $20 a fortnight to the parents or legal guardians of a retarded child. The legislation which made this possible is, I submit, one of the most humanitarian Acts ever introduced into a national Parliament. The Australian Labor Party, in 3 years of government, abolished the means test for all persons over 70 and, from 1 July this year, for those of more than 69 years of age. By a unique twist of fate, the person who promised in 1949 to abolish the means test now enjoys an age pension, free of the means test. This measure was introduced by a Labor Government. 
I strongly urge the Government to maintain and even further develop the high priority given to education at the national level by the Whitlam Labor Government. In 3 years that administration increased Commonwealth expenditure on education from about $430m in 1972-73 to more than $ 1,900m in the current Budget. That was more than a 4-fold increase. Even allowing for inflation, it was an extremely significant rise. But the amount of money involved was not the only consideration. Other important factors include a new emphasis on equality of education opportunities, continuing research into the quality and direction of education and greater freedom and community involvement in the educational enterprise. Because of this historic first national commitment to education at all levels, new hopes have been created for hundreds of thousands of children and adults. Many of them live in my electorate of Sydney. For too many years they, or their counterparts, were condemned to being taught in dingy old schools that dated back almost to the early years of settlement. In such an unattractive educational environment a high turnover of teachers was not surprising. 
In more recent years, many migrant adults and children have come to share their disadvantaged conditions. Consequently it is not surprising that there is great support in such communities for the Schools Commission which was created by the previous Government. As a result of that Commission's recommendation, greatly increased general capital and recurrent grants have been made to both government and non-government schools throughout Australia. Those grants have made possible many new and well furnished schools, the remodelling and re-equipping of old schools and a supply of more and better qualified teachers and support staff. Of special significance are the capital and recurrent grants over and above the general grants which are being given to what are classified as disadvantaged schools. Electorates such as Sydney, a typical older and inner suburban electorate, have gained most from these grants. Educational disadvantage usually carries with it economic, social and cultural disadvantage. Much has been achieved in just a few years towards solving this problem, but much more effort is still required. 
I urge the present Government to continue to develop with equal enthusiasm the initiatives of its predecessor. I refer to areas such as the unprecedented special education and financial assistance to the handicapped, the promotion of educational research particularly through the special projects program, and the provision of more opportunities for practising teachers and educational administrators to develop themselves professionally. In the field of tertiary education one of the most notable specific reforms made by the Whitlam Government was the abolition of all fees. It would be a retrograde and painful step if such fees were reintroduced. Many current students would be forced to abandon their studies. Wider access to all forms of tertiary education, both for school leavers and for those who left school some years earlier, should be encouraged in any genuinely democratic society. 
Finally on the matter of education, I trust that economic circumstances will soon permit the resumption of longer term forward planning under the system of triennial programs. In many aspects of education, as in so many other fields of the economy, such programs do not lend themselves to efficient year to year planning and forecasting. 
In the electorate of Sydney the projects implemented by the former Labor Government and carried on by this Government will be guidelines to the future for low income residents and pensioners in the inner city area. The family unit, the student, the single person and the old, will die in the street or suburb where they were born. This is why Sydney has a soul. The Wooloomooloo project is one of the proposals. Seven thousand people will be involved in living in the heart of Sydney. This agreement was between the Federal and New South Wales governments and the Council ok the City of Sydney. The Glebe Estate is another project. Land was acquired from the Church of England Trust. This $20m project will help people who made history in Australia. They worked close to their homes, reared their families and liked to live in the heart of a great city. In South Sydney another statement of intent was procured from the previous Government indicating that financial assistance would be granted to a non-profit housing trust. This trust was able to negotiate a possible sale from the owners at a purchase price of $450,000. We are awaiting a statement from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Senator Greenwood)  in regard to the outcome of this worthy plan. 
I urge this Parliament to be mindful of the task performed for the community by local government. The previous Labor Government gave it a high priority in financial consideration, and it is most desirable that this practice continue. There are a few interesting points. The previous Labor Government gave $59m through the Australian Grants Commission in the last financial year. This amount goes on record as being by far the biggest allocation to assist local government in the history of Australian politics. I now pose the question: Where are we going? The Australian Grants Commission has suspended its hearing of applications from regional councils for financial assistance. The State Government has not set up its machinery to allow the State Grants Commission to deal with local governments. I should know, I have had experience in local government as an alderman of the Sydney City Council, as the  Deputy  Mayor of Leichhardt and now as a councillor of the electricity supply authority, the Sydney County Council. 
Let me reflect on my association with the Sydney County Council. With all the talk we have heard from the Government about the need to subsidise private enterprise, it should not be forgotten that the largest and most successful industry in Australia is publicly owned and does not need any subsidy. I refer to the electricity supply industry, with which I am proud to be associated as a member of the Sydney County Council. That body still sells electricity at a lower price than it was sold for 20 years ago. If private enterprise had done as well we would have no problems in this country. Local government has continuous community involvement. It is closer to the needs of the people. Many people in the electorate of Sydney are ratepayers and are entitled to home help service, child care centres, playgrounds, recreational activities for older children, home nursing services, the services of social workers and many others. We do not want talk; we would like some action. 
I think it is appropriate that I put on record my appreciation of my mother and father for their encouragement, both moral and financial, over the many years that I was with them. I also express my appreciation to my brothers and sisters for their help, and to my wife Pat and the children for the many times I should have been at home with the family. The goal has been achieved. I am representing the people of the electorate of Sydney in the Thirtieth National Parliament. I thank the House for listening to me. I appreciate being here. Again I would like to thank the people in the electorate of Sydney for electing me to this position. 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that the building industry in New South Wales is almost coming to a halt? Is he also aware that in the 6 months to January 1976 there was a fall of 38.5 per cent in the intake of apprentices in the building industry and that in the next 6 months the fall could be greater? The fall comprises a fall of 48.4 per cent in bricklayers ' apprentices - 
In view of the continuing conflict occurring in Lebanon, can the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs say what action is being taken to process more rapidly the thousands of applications his Department is holding on behalf of prospective immigrants from Lebanon? Has any consideration been given to enlarging our present staff in Beirut and to relaxing our immigration requirements to allow a larger number of Lebanese citizens to migrate to Australia on compassionate grounds? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the floating of the Australian Savings Bonds resulted in increases in interest rates of building societies and other financial institutions. 
If so, will this increase in interest rates, together with a consequent reduction in bank and building society liquidity, mean a reduction in home building activity. 
Is it a fact that the building industry is a barometer of economic activity in Australia. 
If so, does he contemplate any corrective action, such as an injection of funds into the building industry, through the housing authorities, to compensate for the effect of floating Australian Savings Bonds. 
Has his attention been drawn to recent reports which indicated that the rate of increase of money supply as at 1 January 1976 had reduced considerably. 
If so, have the recent policies of the Government to reduce dramatically the rate of money supply been illfounded. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. What progress has been made towards negotiating a new equalisation scheme for the dairy industry? Can the Minister indicate when a new agreement will be effective and what interim measures are being taken to prevent a price-cutting war from 1 July if the agreement is not finalised by that time? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many tradesmen in the (a) building and (b) metal trades industries are unemployed in each State. 
What was the intake of apprentices in each of these industries during the last 5 years. 
Were they indentured or trainee apprentices. 
Is there a uniformity in examination standards in these trades throughout the Commonwealth. 
5 ) How many apprentices were admitted to each of these trades in each Commonwealth Department during the last 10 years. 
Another advertisement stated: 
Tonight I should like to discuss the New South Wales State election which we know was held on Saturday last, 1 May. It is a cliff hanger, a photo finish,' it is a vote against the Federal Government. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was involved in the election with the Premier of the State of New South Wales,  Sir Eric  Willis. If there were a swing to Liberal, the Prime Minister would have accepted the bouquets of victory, so he must accept the defeat- the 7 per cent swing to Labor. The seats of Gosford, Hurstville and the Blue Mountains will go down on the map with the win of the Labor Party in 1 976. 
The New South Wales branch of the Labor Party started the fight back to the national Parliament, to win again the Treasury bench in this Parliament. The result of the election has been to the satisfaction of the little people, the members who worked last Saturday on the polling booths and who have worked on them over the years because they have believed in the party of battlers. They do not get paid like workers for other parties. They work and believe like the average Australian and will never forget what happened last November. 
The disgust came to the surface in New South Wales last week. The figures for the New South Wales State election reveal that for every seat won by the Labor Party, approximately 25 333 votes were cast, but for every seat won by the Liberal-Country Party coalition, approximately 21 833 votes were cast. This coalition government extreme in gerrymandering which has been achieved by 3 Liberal distributions of the electorates of New South Wales has meant a 7 per cent swing to Labor which has over 50 per cent of the vote but which is still fighting to win the State election. How can the people of New South Wales tolerate this situation? Truth and justice must prevail. The peoples voice must be heard and accepted. 
I, being a New South Welshman, must congratulate the State Branch of the Labor Party, its General Secretary, Geoff Cahill, and its  President,  John Ducker, for the remarkable campaign that the new Premier of New South Wales, Neville Wran, has waged. Again, I would be remiss if I did not congratulate the State members of Parliament in the electorate of Sydney. I refer to Pat Hills, M.L.A., who is the honourable member for Phillip, Roger Degen, M.L.A., who is the member for Balmain and Laurie Brereton, M.L.A., the member for Heffron, and all other candidates successful and unsuccessful who worked for the Labor Party at the State election on Saturday. 
On Thursday last the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  attacked Alderman Paul Whelan, the Mayor of Ashfield, the successful Labor candidate for Ashfield in the Legislative Assembly. The vicious attack by the honourable member for Evans on a man who is respected in the electorate of Ashfield- a family man and professional man who has spent a lifetime in the area- is to be deplored. He has attacked a man who cannot defend himself, a man who in the parliament will be an asset to New South Wales and Ashfield. Paul Whelan was elected to office with a swing of over 6500 votes from the result of the last election. On this basis if a Federal election were held next or tomorrow week there would be a Labor victory in Evans as well as in many other electorates of New South Wales and elsewhere in Australia. 
The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  has stated that there will be many oncers in this thirtieth Parliament, and the honourable member for Evans could be one of these. 
That is right. The honourable member for Evans was campaign director for the Liberal candidates for Ashfield and Drummoyne. Both were defeated. I can prove that this was so. At page 1780 of  Hansard  of 29 April the honourable member for Evans is reported as having said that he was not campaign director. In doing so he misled the House. All paid political advertisements have to be authorised. Two advertisements were authorised by the honourable member. One political advertisement stated: 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Having in mind that a licence fee of $90 a year for a colour television set represents more than 10 per cent of the original cost of a set, I ask: Has his Government completed its consideration of his proposal to impose an annual licence fee of $90 for a colour television set? When will he announce his decision? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to criticism of the Government by the Anglican Diocese of Sydney for its lack of action on the Henderson report on poverty. 
When will action be taken on the report. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to the statement of the Prime Minister, that the needy should not rely on welfare; if so, will he elaborate on this statement. 
Will he give an undertaking that underprivileged Australians will be cared for. 
I address a question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that yesterday in Melbourne there were 200 000 claims on Medibank offices as distinct from the daily average of 40 000 claims? Is it also a fact that migrants are confused by proposals that Medibank is to end? Has this also happened in other States? What is the Government to do to stop this panic and confusion of the Australian people? 
-One must congratulate the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Neville  Wran, for stating that the new Labor Government in New South Wales would give top priority to tackling unemployment. There are over 100 000 unemployed persons in New South Wales alone. They are heavily concentrated in the building and metal industries. This House has to encourage the implementation of Labor's pledges and policies in relation to housing, education, city planning and health. The previous Government in New South Wales and the present Federal Liberal-Country Party Government both have poor records in this field. A crash rolling stock program through the transport policy will give a boost to employment and lead to a better relationship between the unions and the Government, which have to work for a better Australia and unity in New South Wales. 
If business and consumers lack confidence it is largely because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and his Cabinet spent their first months in office warning that there were no soft options, talking about tough times ahead and leaking news about severe cuts in government spending. They now realise that they went too far. They have left businessmen and consumers shivering with fear. It is clear that the steady economic recovery set in train by the Hayden Budget has been allowed to wind down. At the end of April, 4.4 per cent of the work force was still unemployed. It is hardly the time, therefore, to threaten consumers with charges for Medibank and to frighten businessmen with the prospect of further cuts in government spending- cuts that would undermine much of the private sector. 
The Labor Council of New South Wales has requested an urgent meeting with the Prime Minister to discuss the situation of manufacturing industry in the State. In a letter to the Prime Minister the Secretary of the Labor Council,  Mr John  Ducker, said that the downturn in manufacturing industry had caused a crisis. He went on to say: 
Production and job figures have hit a dangerous low, while imports are  riding  high. If these trends continue there can be no improvement in employment and there will be further layoffs among the factory work force. Manufacturing industry could find itself in a semi-permanent slump. 
He said that inquiries had established that production levels in the metal, rubber, vehicle, textile, white goods, electrical and electronic industries were substantially down on 1973-74 levels. The extent to which they were down varied between 1 1 and 25 per cent. Imports remain at a high level, with no sign of a reduction. Industry has already lost the special skills of many retrenched workers. 
The tariff policy of the Industries Assistance Commission is a prime cause of this situation. The average tariff protection for manufacturing industry was 10 per cent lower in 1975 than it was in 1970. The Government's policy in the vehicle industry will result in the loss of 1 5 000 jobs in the vehicle component parts and steel industries, mainly in New South Wales. Further heavy retrenchments are expected if the Government adopts the IAC reports on the production of storage batteries, electric motors and railway rolling stock.  Mr Ducker  said that the Labor Council wanted a meeting with the Prime Minister, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Senator Cotton)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to discuss the position. I hope that this meeting will be carried out expeditiously. 
Referring to another subject, I have received correspondence from  Mr J.  Sharrock, the State Secretary of the Combined Pensioners Association, Room 44, Trades Hall, Goulburn Street, Sydney, which reads: 
The decision  of the  Federal Government to remove some 60 drugs from the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits is causing distress among pensioners. It could well be more serious than the attempt by the Government to remove the funeral benefit. 
In answer to our Association's request that the items taken off the schedule be replaced for those pensioners and their dependants who qualify under the means test for fringe benefits, the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  MHR, makes it very clear that the Government's action was to cut expenditure. 
To qualify for entitlement to pharmaceutical benefits the pensioner must come within a means test on income and assets which has operated for many years and applies to all pensioners and their dependent children. Our Association accepts the principle of this means test because it aims to protect those most in need. Among those who pass the test are the poorest of the poor. 
The Government's action means that many of these people will be compelled to pay for prescribed medicines, or do without and risk endangering their health. Did the Australian people elect the present Federal Government for this? Is this what the Government calls 'good management'? 
Without the concessions granted by Federal, State and local government, and also by clubs and other organisations, the capacity of a great number of pensioners to exist would be at risk. 
We appreciate the action taken by those Government members and senators who saved the funeral benefit for pensioners, and we are looking forward to the support of all members of the Federal Parliament in having all the deleted items restored to the free list for those pensioners who have qualified as required and whose right to this assistance is much greater than economy measures. 
Pensioners are the needy people whom we read about in the morning and afternoon newspapers and see on television - 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that residents in the Electoral Division of Sydney are undergoing delays in respect of their telephone service; if so, what steps are being taken to rectify the situation. 
) Are there staff cut-backs in this area. 
Will the apprentice intake be greater in 1976 than 1975; if so, what are the details. 
Will he ensure that the Australian telephone service remains one of the best in the world. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Would he give consideration to making it a condition, when issuing licences to broadcasting stations, that Australian made transmitters must be purchased when they are competitive in price and workmanship. 
Has his Department officially discussed this proposal with representatives of the trade union movement and representatives of employer organisations to safeguard this important industry. 
The Prime Minister has stated that the Government will abolish the Children's Commission. Owing to the concern of many people, will he give an assurance that he will maintain the Labor Government's policy of providing 75 per cent of recurrent costs for child care and family day care? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
What proportion of the funds generously contributed by a large number of Australian citizens to the Darwin Disaster Fund has been spent. 
) On what items was this fund spent. 
If any of the fund is unspent, what is likely to be done with this money. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Health by quoting from the section headed 'Bulk Billing' on page 12 of the Medibank explanatory booklet. It states: 
After 1 October, practitioners will be able to continue 'bulk billing'- that is, sending bills direct to Medibank if they choose- provided you are in Standard Medibank or contributing to Medibank Private Insurance. 
I ask: What safeguards are to be introduced to ensure that a bulk billing medical practitioner can be certain that the patient is indeed a current and financial member of the Medibank standard or private fund? If in good faith a doctor bulk bills Medibank for a patient who is not a current and financial member of one of the Medibank funds, will the doctor be reprimanded in any way or made to carry the full cost of the service provided? 
I address my question to the Treasurer. Is the estimate for the cost of unemployment benefit in this Budget $49m less than in the last Budget? Is this cut a guesstimate? If not, what is the basis for such a cut at a time of rising unemployment? Is the Treasurer's uncertainty and evasiveness in refusing to release the projected unemployment rate up to June 1977 a clear indication that he has no faith in the advice he has received from his Department? 
-I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and wish to quote some phrases from his speech on the Budget. He said: 
Judged solely as an economic document, the Fraser Budget is irrelevant to the nation's needs. Australia is in recession and the recession is deepening. This Budget, quite simply, does nothing about it. But it is worse than that. As a social document- as a statement of the Government's priorities, a statement about the future and the character of our country and its people- the Budget is frightening. It serves notice to the world that one of the richest and most fortunate nations on earth cannot afford to give its people the minimum standards of health, housing, public transport, urban development and social amenities enjoyed by all the other advanced Western democracies, by all well-managed economies. The Fraser Government has declared not only that we cannot afford these things but also that the national government has no business to provide them. This Budget declares that the quality of our lives, the quality of our cities and towns, the quality of our social services, the humanity and efficiency of our public institutions- the things which enrich and beautify our surroundings and which alone can liberate our people from drabness, hardship and insecurity- are not the concern of the national government in command of the national economy. That is the message of the Fraser Budget .... 
Money is lavished on privileged sections of the business community, but industries like manufacturing, which depend most on consumer confidence, get nothing at all. The shipbuilding industry is to be dismantled. There is no help or hope for the building and construction industries, already depressed by the Government's cuts in public works. There is a conspicuous neglect of the rural community. There is nothing for wage and salary earners but a prospect of wage restraint and a fall in living standards. There is nothing for the unemployed but continuing and lengthening dole queues. 
One must congratulate the Australian Labor Party on the constructive way in which many of its speakers have attacked the Government on this 'wait and hope for the best' Budget. Those speakers have also supported the shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who stated: 
The Government's wages policy has been unnecessary because it seems to have been based on some confusion. Government leaders have implied that for profits to increase and recovery to occur, real wages must fall. This was reasserted in the statement that we are debating today. This just is not so. This confuses wage levels with the share of wages in national income and profit rates with the share of profits in national income. The way to increase the profit share is to encourage economic recovery. It is well known that the share of profits rises in a boom and falls in a recession. The profit share is low at present because the economy is still in a vacuum. But in spite of it being low overall, we notice that the latest publications of profit figures for the year ended 30 June 1976- when wage indexation applied almost throughout the total year- show that these profit rates have been increasing. The fact is that they should be adjusted for current value accounting reasons before we draw any comparisons. But even with such adjustments, the profit rates have improved under wage indexation. If sustained recovery occurs, the share profits in income will rise again encouraging business to invest, so enhancing the recovery further 
I suggest that such a policy of focusing on recovery will be followed instead of adopting this policy of ensuring that the timid spenders of this country save rather than get out and spend. I suggest that we are ensuring this latter course by following the policies outlined in the statement that we are debating today. Such policies are ill informed and we reject them. 
That was the statement made by the shadow Treasurer. 
I turn now to the Budget anomalies. A high level of unemployment is a conscious Liberal Government goal. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  argue that the single important economic problem facing Australia is inflation. The level of real wages is the cause of that problem, they say. Their approach to reducing real wages is to increase unemployment and push for the end of wage indexation. The Budget will retard economic recovery. Total outlays increase by 1 1 per cent, whereas inflation at a rate of 12 per cent is expected. Real government spending will fallTotal receipts are expected to increase by 19 per cent, compared with a growth in the economy of about 4 per cent. Receipts from personal income tax are expected to increase by 25 per cent, compared with a 12 per cent increase in average weekly earnings. Rather than reducing income tax, the Prime Minister and the Treasurer are sharply increasing the proportion of income which people pay in tax. The effect of these changes is to reduce total spending in the economy by government and households below possible and desirable levels. The stock valuation adjustment which is to be introduced will have no effect on taxes paid by companies this year. The changes to tax rates for mining companies simply transfer funds to already well off companies which employ few people. Spending on building and construction, an industry in which large numbers of people are employed, is reduced. 
I turn now to Aboriginal affairs. The Lynch Budget returns expenditure on Aboriginal affairs to pre- 1972 days. There has been an overall cut of 30 per cent in real terms. The greatest of the cuts have been in the areas of housing, health and education- the 3 areas most important to the self-respect and self-determination of any person. 
I turn now to social security. Because of the abolition of dependant tax rebates, the increases in child endowment have to be paid for by a real increase in taxation. Pension increases indexed to the consumer price index provide no additional benefit for the pensioner but simply maintain the real value of pensions. In July 1976, 51 000 school leavers were registered as unemployed as a direct result of the Federal Government's economic policies. The Government has allocated only $580m for unemployment and sickness benefits in the Budget, a reduction of $33m. At a time of record unemployment, these savings can be achieved only by further restricting the payment of benefits to the unemployed. Child care payments are still down. The Government is allocating only $73. 3m in 1976-77 for child care services, a reduction of 12 per cent in real terms. The Government has now abandoned the most innovative and effective self-help social welfare program developed in Australia. I refer to the Australian Assistance Plan. The Government has allocated only $5.4m for the program in 1976-77-in 1975-76, $7m was allocated-and will not fund the program beyond 30 June 1977. 
I turn now to aged and disabled persons' homes. Despite pre-election assurances that funds for aged persons' accommodation was not to be reduced by a Liberal-National Country Party Government, the Government reduces funds for those programs by 45 per cent in real terms. Real living standards are slashed. Not only is the Government advocating lower wages before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission but also it is cutting those government services which directly increase workers' living standards- health, urban programs, education and consumer protection. Expenditure in education has been maintained in most areas but does not allow for any growth. Cuts have been made in student assistance and Aboriginal and migrant education. More will be said about that at a later date. 
In the provision of health services, migrant groups have been badly hit. They are major losers in the Medibank debacle, because of the low incomes which an eminent number of migrants receive. They are seriously disadvantaged by the freezing of the development of community health facilities. The Government has allocated only $7 1.8m, when $88m is needed to meet current commitments. The future of ethnic radio is in great doubt. The experiment has been extremely successful but the Fraser Government has seen fit to continue financing it only until the end of September 1976. 
There is a decrease in real terms in the estimated expenditure on housing of approx.mately 7 per cent and a decrease in real terms in the total payments to the States for housing of approximately 13 per cent. What does the Lynch Budget mean? In regard to housing for Aborigines it means a 15 per cent reduction in cash terms; in regard to housing loans by the banks it means a 30 per cent reduction in cash terms; in regard to welfare housing payments to the States it means a 13 per cent reduction in real terms. Moreover, there appears to be no consideration given to the economic and employment implications of housing payments to the States. Western Australia and Tasmania, where the housing industry is working beyond full capacity, have received marginal increases in funds. New South Wales, where the housing industry is in chaos, is to suffer a decrease in cash terms. 
I shall now deal with urban and regional development and the environment. The great Labor steps forward in urban development, growth centres, area development, lands commissions and the National Estate, have been completely destroyed by the Lynch Budget. The growth centres' program has been cut back from an actual expenditure of $60.8m in 1975-76 to a forecast expenditure of $ 19.1m in 1976-77. The following appropriations have been made: In Albury-Wodonga the allocation for this year is $15m and the allocation for last year was $35m; The allocation for the south-west section of Macarthur this year is $2m and last year it was $ 15.7m; and for Bathurst-Orange it is $2m this year and it was $8.3m last year. 
The Government has effectively frozen the development of health services in rural and urban areas and it has reduced expenditure on health by $44m. Savings have been achieved by forcing 50 per cent of the population into private health insurance and abandoning Labor's goal of ensuring equality of access to health services. The Fraser Government has allocated only $7 1.8m when $88m is required to maintain current commitments to community health facilities. 
Competitive public enterprise in the development of Australia's national resources has been dealt a serious blow by the Lynch Budget. Appropriations for Australian participation in the development of our national resources has been reduced in real terms by 22.8 per cent, as against the appropriations made in the Hayden Budget. 
I turn now to primary industry, and the information I give may be handy for those in primary industry. Representing as I do the electorate of Sydney, I have always had some feeling for the country. The Lynch Budget is extremely disappointing to farmers. Under the income equalisation deposits scheme a farmer buys bonds in periods of high income- he lightens tax liability and earns 5 per cent interest- and cashes bonds in a future period, presumably one of low income, thus adding to tax liability. While that has some merit in assisting long term income equalisation, it is useless for assisting farmers through this period of depressed returns. Most have no money to invest in the bonds. What election promises are ignored in the Budget as far as primary industry is concerned? During last year's election campaign major promises included a national rural bank, a scheme to lease farms to young farmers, long term loans to fishermen, the appointment of more Agricultural Attaches, tax incentives to farmers and animal quarantine stations. Not one of these is mentioned in the Budget. 
I believe that the Government has slashed in the Budget funds which would normally be received by New South Wales. I hold that view for the following reasons. Because of the attitude held by the Government the payments for running hospitals are at risk. Funds for building and equipment for universities in New South Wales have been reduced from $2 1.7m to $1 lm. Funds for public hospitals have been reduced by $ 1 .7m, a reduction of 1 7 per cent in real terms. Funds for pensioner dwellings have been reduced from $6. 8m to $2.3m. Commonwealth assistance for expenditure on tuberculosis control will cease from 31 December. Last year those payments were worth more than $3m to New South Wales. Employment relief grants worth $1 1.7m to New South Wales have been abolished. Funds for Aboriginal advancement paid to the New South Wales Government have been reduced by more than $2m in this year. There is no increase in funds for public housing, and that is equivalent to a reduction of 12 per cent in real terms. The Labor Government made area improvement grants to a number of local government regions worth $6m last year. The area improvement program has been abolished and New South Wales will receive only $120,000 to finish off the balance of all the work. Funds for sewerage programs have been reduced from $43m to $20m. Funds for land development through the urban land council have been reduced from $1 1.7m to $4.3m. There has been a decrease of 9 per cent in real terms of funds spent on roads. Funds for the development of tourist facilities have been reduced from $543,000 to $74,000. There has been a major reduction in funds for local government. Excluding roads, payments to local government in all States are down from $2 75m to $ 1 95m, a reduction of $80m. 
Many of our young people who are unemployed will be living on the dole for years to come if the harsh policies of the Liberal Government are implemented. In other words, it will be: 'Serving your time on the dole into the 1980s'. Remember the great architect of liberalism from 1950 to 1960,  Sir Robert  Menzies. He just survived the 1961 Federal election when 100,000 Australians were out of work. Early in 1972 when Bill McMahon, the right honourable member for Lowe was Prime Minister, there were 138,000 unemployed. He too survived for only a few months because of the great unemployment in Australia. Owing to a world wide recession from 1972 to 1975 when Labor took office, many people were on unemployment relief, but by 1977 there could be 500,000 unemployed under the Liberal-Country Party coalition Government. One could reflect on the article in the  Australian Financial Review  of Monday last, 13 September: 
Congress passes Budget but no lift for faltering U.S. economy. The U.S. recovery which was expected . . . now concern about the durability of recovery is much stronger around the country. 
That is in the United States of America. If federal elections were to take place next year or in 1 978, there would certainly be a Labor government again. The Australian people were misled by the Liberal-Country Party coalition prior to the election. 
There is a high proportion of unemployed people under 20 years of age. Teenagers represent only 12 per cent of the work force and 40 per cent of them are unemployed. In fact 20 000 students stayed at school but in 1977 they will have to go out with the others to a life which will commence on the dole. Is this the Government that promised: 'Vote for Fraser and you will be safe until 1980'? 
That is right. I have asked questions of the Government in the House of Representatives concerning the training of apprentices, secondary and tertiary education, and about rethinking its approach to the actual needs of industry and commerce. We have more graduates but fewer tradesmen. Many are unemployed under the new federalism of liberalism. Graduates and tradesmen are out of work. The Prime Minister stated in the great policy speech before the 1975 elections: 
For the people in our great country who want to work I will guarantee full employment. 
Lies again! You will know that cuts in the expenditure of the 1976-77 Budget affect the little people- pensioners, women, children, Aborigines, migrants, the sick and the infirm. Under the Fraser Government inflation is running at 12 per cent and unemployment is still rising. It made promises and promises. Did not the Fraser Government promise full employment in 1976? Money has been slashed from urban and regional development. The Australian Government Glebe Estate is one such area. The people of Sydney are considered to be second class citizens because they voted for Labor. We know what the Liberals do when in doubt; they panic. That should be the Liberal Party's slogan. 
The Fraser Government's policy is business before people, handouts to big business for services rendered. What about the Pitt Street farmersnot the little farmers. And what about their friends the large foreign coal producers, such as Utah. Most State governments regret having a Federal Liberal Government because they know they are worse off than they are under a Federal Labor Government. The Liberals had control of the Treasury bench for 23 years before 1972. What did they do? When the Labor Party came to power it had plans for the next 10 years. All this has been slashed. Life is not meant to be easy for the sick and the infirm. Medibank is only one of the casualties of the Budget. There has been downgrading of health care and old people will find it harder and more costly to enter nursing homes or hospitals. Health care will be only for the rich. The Prime Minister has asked the people to spend and live for today. Living for today is what the Treasurer ordered. Australians are told to spend their way back to prosperity by a Government that deliberately endangers their jobs. The next 12 months will be difficult for the people of Australia. Those who voted for the Liberal Party will almost certainly regret what they have done. What has the Liberal-Country Party Government done in its 9 months in office other than confuse the nation? 
The Federal Budget, by cutting public expenditure, by failing to stimulate the manufacturing sector and by distributing finance only to the wealthy mining industry, plans to concentrate its gamble on increased consumer spending in the hope that inflationary pressure will ease. I do not believe either of these things are likely to occur. The Federal Government is taking the callous, cynical approach of waiting until 1977-78, nearer to an election year, before taking action to stimulate real employment. The whisper from the Government benches is that 20 seats will change. This is now September 1976, not 1978. How many oncers will there be, thirty, or forty? 
The Wran Labor Government of New South Wales has already shown it has an enormous capacity for work, a creative approach to government and an acute awareness of all human aspects associated with these problems. In New South Wales 120 000 people are out of work. They are not dole bludgers, as the Liberal Government would have us believe. This reference to dole bludgers has to stop. Who were the Liberal-Country Party members who coined the phrase? They should stand up and be counted. Who were they- the Country Party, the Liberal Party? 
Firstly, I would like to answer some of the remarks the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  made about a pamphlet dealing with men of the calibre of John Ducker, the  President  of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party;  Senator Kerry  Sibraa from New South Wales;  Senator Jim  McClelland from New South Wales and many other prominent people. My name was involved also. I was asked whether I would lend my support to a peaceful demonstration at the Sydney Town Hall next Monday night to discuss why the Governor-General did certain things to change the Constitution of this country. I agreed to do that. Does the honourable member for Evans and do other honourable members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party class men of the calibre of John Ducker, Kerry Sibraa,  Senator Jim  McClelland and others, including me, who go to peaceful demonstrations as communists? I ask them to say anywhere outside that I am a member of the Communist Party or to say that I am procommunist. Let them say it. This matter was raised tonight because there would be some publicity. I am disgusted that honourable members opposite are so right wing in their thoughts. If a person disagrees with their thoughts he is branded. 
I have an important matter to raise dealing with unemployment. As I said tonight in my speech on the Budget, the unemployment situation in New South Wales is so dangerous that by March next year 200 000 people will be unemployed in New South Wales. I have here a statement from the New South Wales Minister for Industrial Relations, Mines and Energy,  Mr P.  D. Hills, who is the State member for Phillip in my electorate of Sydney. I seek leave to have the Press statement from  Mr Hills  incorporated in  Hansard  because I will not have a chance to read all of it. I also have a paper entitled 'Youth runs own employment exchange'. It deals with the people whom honourable members opposite call dole bludgers. I seek the permission of the House to have it also incorporated in  Hansard. 

 The document read as follows- 

PRESS STATEMENT Thursday, 2 September 1 976 
Four-pronged plan for young unemployed. 
A New South Wales State Government scheme to have young unemployed people paid at least the equivalent of the dole allowance while they train for future trade callings and professions will be put to the Commonwealth Government at a meeting in Adelaide tomorrow. 
New South Wales Minister for Industrial Relations, Mines and Energy,  Mr P.  D. Hills, said today he would put this proposal to the Commonwealth Government at a meeting of Ministers for Labour. 'The Fraser Government must do something concrete to help us arrest some of the brutal facts of 1 16 000 unemployed people in New South Wales ',  Mr Hills  said.  'His  government's policies on capital works cutbacks and unfair tariff provisions are destroying the key manufacturing industries of New South Wales which employ 47 per cent of all Australia's workforce in these industries'. 
The Minister said there were now 5000 unskilled building and construction workers unemployed in New South Wales, 3700 skilled metal trades workers, including 800 fitters, 122 turners, 470 welders and 67 1 electrical mechanics. 

 Mr Hills said that one of his greatest concerns was the absence of opportunity which existed for nearly 43 000 unemployed young people in New South Wales who will be joined by a large proportion of the 85 000 leaving schools and universities in December. 'It is my firm belief that the Commonwealth should be forced to recognise the social evil which confronts this nation in respect of providing for our future skills in the workforce',  Mr Hills  said. 'I believe that if the Federal Government was prepared to accept its responsibilities in regard to this, then it should accept an offer of co-operation with New South Wales to immediately implement this scheme of industrial training for young unemployed persons', he said. 'The Commonwealth must realise that instead of handing out the dole, these people would much rather receive the same subsistence payments to undergo training for their future trades and professions'. 
The Minister said the State Government was having urgent discussions to review the resources of training facilities and teachers in New South Wales to get such a scheme under way. 

 Mr Hills said he intended to take a four-pronged approach to the present serious unemployment situation for young people, including 
* A call by the Minister for an urgent meeting of the Apprenticeship Council for next Monday to go into every facet of the problem. 
* The modernisation of industrial training legislation to get New South Wales 'out of the horse and buggy phase '. 
* This proposal on Friday that the Commonwealth participate with the State for the industrial training of young unemployed people in New South Wales. 'Unless such a scheme is accepted by the Commonwealth there are obviously going to be quite critical skilled manpower shortages in New South Wales in the near future,'  Mr Hills  said. 'About 70 per cent of the normal apprenticeship intake comprises those highly essential fields such as fitting and turning, motor mechanics, electrical fitters and mechanics, carpentry and joinery, brick laying and plumbing, ' he said. 'The intention of New South Wales plan is to similarly train unemployed young women receiving the dole allowance for careers of their choice, including full time secretarial courses, technical occupations and other professions, including computer operations for example, ' he said. 'The Commonwealth would not be asked to pay out more than they are already paying by way of the $36.00 a week dole allowance to which these young people are entitled. 'If the Commonwealth refused to accept this offer, or attempted to delay it, then on their heads will rest a national disgrace which would never be forgotten, '  Mr Hills  said. 
The Minister said that a meeting of State Ministers for Labour at Mt Isa in 1974 agreed unanimously that the States introduce modern industrial training legislation. 'I am plainly astonished that despite this decision the previous Liberal Government in New South Wales, like so many things I have come across, dithered and did nothing,'  Mr Hills  said. 
He said bills had been introduced successfully in Victoria and Western Australia. 
This week advertisements appeared in the Press by the Minister requesting unemployed apprentices to contact him. 'This is the first step to obtain a true picture of unemployed apprentices. '  Mr Hills  said. 
Youth run own employment exchanges 
At least four Regional Councils for Social Development have taken positive action to meet the challenge of the unemployment problem. 
At Mt Druitt, Sydney, where the Outer Western RCSD established an experimental employment bureau for the under 25s, the response has been considerable. Within four weeks of being established the employment bureau had received 950 registrations from people seeking work; 147 calls from employers with vacancies and by January 30, 98 applicants had been placed. Three applicants were placed in apprenticeships and more than 80 were still seeking apprenticeships. Altogether the bureau received 1700 telephone inquiries in those four weeks. Of the 950 registrations, 240 were made by women. 
The Sydney team in action is shown on our front cover photograph. Cris Moran (facing, left), Larry Bartley and Sandra New try to help two applicants. (Photograph by courtesy of the Daily Telegraph, Sydney). 
* * * * 
In Geraldton, Western Australia, a Community Development Officer, David Perso advertised in the local press for people who were out of work and who were therefore free to do things for the community. Among other tasks lined up were verge trimming, sign painting and grass planting. 
Volunteers were also invited to suggest things that would improve Geraldton and which the volunteers could fix themselves. Arrangements were made for materials to be available. 
The idea caused a good deal of interest in Geraldton and about a dozen volunteers came forward initially. Surveys were undertaken on community services, the location of doctor's surgeries, and so forth; including the question: how often do you contact your MP? 
A rubbish drive to clean up the highways into town was organised and some other streets cleared up. Among those who volunteered were an unemployed teacher, a cray fisherman, housewives and unemployed young people. 
* * * * 
In Rockhampton, the SLUMP (School-leavers Unemployment Mobilisation Scheme) has aimed not only to place young people in jobs but to help applicants with their presentation at interviews and to find them occupation while still unemployed (so they could not be dubbed 'dole bludgers'). Some volunteers have mowed lawns and collected shopping for elderly people and carried out other community tasks. A team of young people have also kept in daily touch with business nouses to see if any vacancies were likely to occur. 
After four weeks the SLUMP employment bureau had received 210 registrations of people seeking work; 36 employers had offered jobs; and 28 young people had been placed in permanent jobs. 
Twenty-four temporary jobs were also offered of which 2 1 were subsequently taken. Although the exchange closed after four weeks (as previously arranged) a temporary jobs pool is to continue. 
The young people are also taking over the production of a community newspaper, run previously by the Rockhampton Social Development Council and directed at social welfare readers. The new team is going to develop it as a young people 's paper in the direction they think best. 
* * * * 
Albury-Wodonga Regional Council for Social Development has begun a Youth Employment Exchange. The young people, from 15 upwards, are running the exchange and are visiting businessmen in the area to canvass jobs. Reaction from the business people has been excellent because they were impressed by the fact that young people were doing something to help themselves. 
To begin with the exchange is concentrating on unemployed people in the city area, but it is planned eventually to help those living in the rural areas, who also face transport difficulties. 
Through the exchange applicants can learn how to present themselves for an interview; how to write a letter applying for a job; and how to fill in application forms. Applicants receive information sheets describing the best ways of looking for a job. 
Before the exchange had had time to open officially, the exchange team had received information about 34 vacancies from employers- four jobs were filled immediately and 61 applications were received from young people seeking work. 
Moves to establish the exchange began after a girl put an advertisement in the local paper asking someone to help her find a job because she did not want to go on unemployment benefit. The exchange had the blessing of the local Commonwealth Employment Service. 
* * * * 
Tonight the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife),  speaking on the Budget, denied that there was unemployment in New South Wales. He should know, because he was the Minister who had to leave his seat in the New South Wales Parliament and leave the sinking ship. Other honourable members from New South Wales who discussed this matter were the honourable member for Evans, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock),  the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil).  The honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  might have time to take this matter further. I am running out of time. He was the person who looked after the young people concerned in Mount Druitt. The document entitled 'Youth run own employment exchanges ' states: 
At least four Regional Councils for Social Development have taken positive action to meet the challenge of the unemployment problem. 
It refers to Mount Druitt and mentions the team of Chris Moran, Larry Bartley and Sandra New. It also refers to young people in Geraldton in Western Australia helping the community and to SLUMP or School Leavers Unemployment Mobilisation Scheme in Rockhampton. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it the intention of the Government to reduce real wages by persuading the Arbitration Commission to award only half wage indexation. 
If so, would this result in substantially reduced income tax receipts and thereby increase the deficit. 
If it is still the intention of the Government to reduce the deficit, why is it advocating action that would have the opposite effect. 
-Is the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs aware that the Hospitals Benefits Association has made at least 8 incorrect and misleading assertions about Medibank cover in its health insurance advertising campaign? Is the Minister also aware that persons who elect to transfer their health insurance cover after 1 December will incur a severe financial penalty? In order to ensure that the public is provided with accurate information about health insurance prior to 1 October, will the Minister direct HBA to cease these practices pending a determination by the Trade Practices Commission? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Construction. Having regard to the very high incidence of unemployment among skilled tradesmen in the construction industry, what specific effort has the Minister's Department made to ensure that a large proportion of these highly skilled tradesmen are not lost to the industry? Further, what efforts has the Government made to assist this vital and formerly viable industry to get out of the slump in which it now finds itself? 
Tonight I want to discuss the Medibank muddle. I. am pleased to see the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  in the House as I want to refer to him in connection with the Medibank muddle. I have an article here from the  Five Dock Recorder  which is headed 'Counter- Attack by ALP Branch'. Perhaps we should call in Sherlock Holmes or someone who knows about security as the issue concerns a petition presented a few weeks ago in which 500 names were involved but approximately 23 names appear on the petition. The little Australian Labor Party branch in the electorate of Evans was trying to find out where the other signatures were. They appear to have been lost. The honourable member for Evans stated that they are here somewhere, and that is why I am pleased to see that he is in the chamber. 
The article is by a journalist who is probably not sympathetic towards the Labor Party. I notice that on the second page there is an advertisement for the honourable member for Evans, giving his telephone number. I imagine that if a person puts an advertisement in a newspaper he has a fair bit of say in it. The article says: 
Five Dock branch of the Australian Labor Party slammed Federal Member for Evans,  Mr John  Abel, last week for criticism on its credibility. 
Replying to remarks criticising the branch for its comments,  President  Steve Sillick said  Mr Abel  was attempting to hide his mistakes by making personal and emotional attacks on his critics. 'The facts and  Hansard  clearly show that he has tried to mislead the public and is still trying to do so ',  Mr Sillick  said. 
In the  Australian Financial Review  of 6 August  Mr Abel  is quoted as saying: . . . that he had just received a petition with 300 signatures supporting the Medibank changes. The petition was unsolicited. 
He presented the petition on 19 August but 23 signatures were on the petition, not the 500 claimed originally. In the  Financial Review  of Friday, 6 August under headline ' Fraser 's Backbench A Little Edgy But Still Solid', the following article appeared: 
Most new backbench members of the Liberal-National Country Party Coalition are concerned about the confusion in the public mind over the Government's Medibank proposals. 
While many Government parliamentarians believe that the 'communication gap 'is a short term issue . . . 
It is stated also in the  Financial Review  of that date: 

 Mr Abel (Lib. NSW) said that he has just received a petition with 500 signatures supporting the Medibank changes. The petition was unsolicited. 
It has come to my notice that of the 23 signatories is one from Burwood, one from Punchbowl, one from Annandale, one from Balmain, one from Concord West, one from Randwick, one from McMahon's Point- I do not live thereand one from Cremorne. It is said there could be eight from outside the electorate. Something should be done about such misleading statements. Perhaps the honourable member for Evans could explain the situation, because I will be sending the  Hansard  to the branch office. It is always looking for this information. I hope the honourable member will give me a satisfactory answer because he is not a bad type of bloke. When you meet people in this House you take a liking to most of them, but we of the Labor Party do not like lies. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Does the Minister intend to table the so-called Green Report on radio and television? Will it be tabled before consideration by the Government or will it be released after the Government has decided on its recommendations? 
Tonight I wish to read some correspondence I have received today from the Inner Sydney Regional Council for Social Development. The letter states: 
Late last year the Inner Sydney Regional Council for Social Development established a sub-committee to look at the needs for Home Help Services in the Inner Sydney Area. 
This followed growing concern by people working in welfare agencies, and local community groups, that many elderly people were either being forced to live in squalid conditions or placed in Nursing Homes because of the lack of flexibility in the types of services being offered to the residents of the Inner city area. 
As one of our biggest difficulties in talking about the size of the problem was the lack of quantifiable data a survey was conducted for the month of February in the Municipalities of 
South Sydney, Marrickville, City of Sydney and Leichhardt. The data concerns only those people who presented to the 22 agencies participating and cannot be seen as a comprehensive survey, but for the first time we have some figures on the size and type of the problem. (A copy of the survey is attached.) 
I seek leave to incorporate that survey in  Hansard. 
-That survey was initiated by the Labor Government and has been endorsed in 1976 by the Liberal-National Country Party Government. The issue in the inner city area and in those municipalities relates to domiciliary nursing care. As we all know, an amount of $2 a day is payable to a person who looks after a mother or father or any other person who cannot go to a nursing home. The Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  today notified me of a decision in relation to a woman of 95 years of age whose 60 year old daughter has been taking care of her. I congratulate the Minister for the humane way in which he has dealt with the problem. Another case on which I am still awaiting an answer relates to a grand old lady in Pyrmont who is 98 years of age whose 70 year old daughter is looking after her. Because a nursing sister does not visit the old lady twice a week her daughter is not entitled to the benefit of $2 a day. It would be a humane act by the Government if that amount could be paid to daughters or sons or friends who are looking after people who need care. For some reason the Act provides that if a nursing sister does not visit twice a week no benefit is payable. 
I agree. 
Yes, but the Labor Government did not enforce the rule. The same rule applied in relation to pensioners. I had some trouble in Sydney when officers of the Department of Social Security raided houses, rightly or wrongly, at 7.30 a.m. or 7.45 a.m. to see whether people were living together as married people when they were simply friends and looking after each other at 70 or 75 years of age. That is the same sort of problem and something has to be done. The payment of $2 a day is not the main issue; it is the problem of the people at home who need to be looked after. I hope that in his wisdom the Minister will agree that a woman who looks after her 98 year old mother should receive the payment for domiciliary nursing care. I am pleased that in one case that payment will be made. I am pleased also that the LiberalNational Country Party policy is going to change and that a humane action will be followed tonight by this House. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice: 
1 ) What action is taken by the Commonwealth Electoral Office to ensure that all persons who become naturalised Australian citizens apply for enrolment for the electoral division in which they reside. 
Can the Minister say how many have failed to submit an enrolment card. 
I would like to discuss tonight relations between unions and management, the need for a greater intake of migrant workers in the Australian work force and the communication gap that exists between those groups. As the  Speaker  of this House stated last weekend: 
We have to discuss differences of opinion around the table also before direct action or confrontation takes place. 
But not all members of the Government believe that employees and unionists should have a say in their livelihood and future employment. In September last when the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  used his speech at the opening of the new Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd steelmill to threaten action against unions, no doubt he delighted the company executives and industrialists who were present. The day before,  Sir Eric  Willis, the Leader of the State Opposition, told the New South Wales Parliament that the answer to the State's petrol dispute was government action to force the strikers back to work. Many of the anti-union elements in the community would applaud that tool. But they have been taken for a ride by the Liberal leaders. The Prime Minister is not serious about the idea and has no intention of doing anything.  Sir Eric  Willis never did anything of that kind when he had the opportunity as Premier of the State of New South Wales. 
One trade union secretary who did speak out was  Mr Joe  Thompson, the State Secretary of the Vehicle Builders' Union in New South Wales. In a recent series of papers and speeches he has tackled the anti-union arguments head on. Again and again employers have argued that at the bottom of Australia's economic problems is the fact that we are pricing ourselves out of the world market and our manufacturing is in the doldrums because our wage rates are too high. As Thompson pointed out recently in a paper to a management audience, that is just not the case. According to Thompson, the Japanese worker enjoys wages and fringe benefits far in excess of anything enjoyed by the Australian worker. The Japanese workers' advantage lies in modern technology and their massive home market. That is only one example. There are many thousands of other similar cases. 
There is another widespread myth which says that Australian unions are strike happy and that this is the cause of our mediocre industrial performance. For 25 years the Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Ltd operated its Zetland plant in Sydney. In that quarter of a century only 16 hours were lost in strikes. Facts like that, of course, never grab the headlines. But at least there is now a union leader who has taken the effort to point them out to the public. Recently in New South Wales a Commonwealth Conciliation Commissioner,  Mr Jack  Heffernan, handed down a judgment in an industrial dispute.  His  decision was given in four different languages. That is a big breakthrough and shows that at last people are beginning to recognise that Australia has a multi-racial work force. A greater proportion of the Australian work force was born overseas than that of any other country except Israel. Forty per cent of our work force is foreign born, but in the steel and automobile industries at least 80 per cent of the work force are migrants. So in a great many companies operating in the metal, textile, electrical and building industries British and Australian workers are a small minority-only one in seven or one in eight. 
Most workers have a foreign language as their native tongue. It is easy for people in management to speak glibly about improved communications with their workers leading to fewer strikes and rosier industrial relations, but our postwar migration program has given us a massive communication problem. Migrant workers are hard pressed to understand information on their awards or safety matters. Migrant workers with problems are reluctant to see a shop steward and spell out their difficulties in broken English. Union stop-work meetings leave much of the work force confused about what is going on. 
Those are the real problems in Australian industry, and a Commissioner who is prepared to hand down a judgment not only in English but also in the language of much of the work force is very welcome. As  Mr Speaker  has said in this House, what we say we should practise. Employer, employee, new settler and politician- we are all Australians with one goal, a better place to live in and a share of the national wealth for our children and their children and for the future of our country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What stage has been reached by the interdepartmental committee reviewing fees for tertiary education students. 
When does the Government expect to receive the report and will it be made public. 
3 ) What level of fees are under consideration. 
Are higher degree students the only students on whom it is intended to impose fees. 
Tonight I should like to discuss nursing home subsidies and domiciliary nursing care. Honourable members in this House have discussed this most important issue in their electorates many times. Only yesterday during question time 2 questions dealing with private hospital and nursing home subsidies were answered by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt).  The Minister has stated regarding the nursing home subsidies: 'A statement will be given shortly'. It had better be soon because many constituents in my electorate are worried about their parents and friends. Also patients are worried about the daily rate of a bed in these homes. Up to $30 extra a fortnight is paid above the pensions allowing for extra subsidies provided by the Government. Any savings these people have had have been eroded. 
As I have stated in this House, there is no encouragement if the Government queries 2 visits a week by a nursing sister to home patients who receive $2 a day for the entitlement for domiciliary nursing care benefit. Nursing home treatment is out of reach of many people with limited incomes. This issue is more serious than many Australians would believe. One has to be involved to experience the true feeling of injustice to these sick and troubled people, older citizens. They need our help. I have correspondence from the Executive Director of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes' Association of Australia, John Gillroy. He states: 
The decision by the Commonwealth Government not to increase the subsidies paid to nursing home patients has created increased problems for many nursing home patients and their relatives. There would seem to be no likelihood of the Commonwealth Government doing anything about helping nursing home patients in this area until next financial year (which begins on 1 July 1977). 
This association has made many representations over the past 18 months to the various Ministers responsible for nursing home patients. We have spoken personally with Labor, Liberal and Country Party ministers alike. We have repeatedly drawn their attention to the problems being faced by so many people like yourself because of the insufficiency of the age pension plus the nursing home subsidy to meet the costs of the nursing home's fees. 
A short time ago the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  appointed a special Committee of Enquiry into the Care of the Aged and Infirm which has as its members the men who so recently redesigned the Medibank scheme. Every indication we have is that when the Committee of Enquiry gives the Prime Minister its report ... it will contain some important recommendations for a better way to cover the needs of nursing home patients. 
The letter continues: 
We have asked for nursing home patients to be covered by Medibank. There is no point in the government claiming that Medibank is a 'universal health insurance' scheme when the fact of the matter is that nursing home patients are simply not covered by it. Neither are they recognised as being sick people in our community and therefore entitled to Medibank cover. 

 Mr Jim Sharrock, State Secretary of the Combined Pensioners Association of New South Wales, has asked similar questions for his members from New South Wales and other parts of Australia, dealing with nursing home care and domiciliary nursing care. The Minister for Health will give a decision shortly on extra subsidies for home nursing care and domiciliary nursing care subsidies. The question will be examined by the same committee. These home sisters are doing a remarkable job. They do not want to be involved in the red tape surrounding the matter now. They would like to get on with the job of looking after sick people. If they have to make home visits 3 times a week they should be entitled to make them. But how many pensioners and invalid patients, because of the ruling of the Department of Health, do not receive adequate treatment because 2 visits a week means an extra $2 a day. This subsidy is denied to many needy people. Doctors and nursing sisters agree. I am pleased that the Minister for Health is looking into this injustice, but the Minister should make a decision as soon as possible. Now nursing homes are for the rich and domiciliary nursing care is for the chosen few. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. Is the Minister aware of the statement by a leading employers' organisation that the Industries Assistance Commission is a major influence on unemployment in this country? Is the Minister also aware that the Clothing Manufacturers Association of New South Wales and the Footwear  Manufacturers  Association of New South Wales have stated that there could be 250 000 people unemployed by the end of the year and that they condemn his Government's policy? If so, is the Minister concerned at this state of affairs? What action does the Government intend to take to rectify this alarming and ever-increasing decline in our standard of living and job opportunities? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What is the total amount available for all tertiary education assistance schemes for 1976-77. 
What are the various schemes available for tertiary students. 
What (a) is the amount of assistance available to students from each of these schemes and (b) are the conditions under which it is made available. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Are any records kept of the number of migrants who become Australian citizens. 
If so, how many of each ethnic group have been naturalised in each of the last 5 years. 
How many naturalised citizens in each of the ethnic groups are enrolled in the Electoral Division of Sydney. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
For what period does an immigrant aged between 16 and 21 years have to wait, after his arrival in Australia, before becoming eligible to apply for and be paid unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) When the new income test for pensioners comes into operation, how many will be receiving excess pensions in New South Wales. 
How many of these will be (a) age pensioners, (b) widow pensioners, (c) invalid pensioners, (d) supporting mothers and (e) repatriation pensioners. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that some private health insurance funds intend to offer direct billing facilities to doctors who charge more than the scheduled fee? Is the Minister concerned that this practice will encourage doctors to charge excessive fees as they will receive a rebate equal to the scheduled fee from the private health funds, even if doctors charge patients a IS per cent or 20 per cent moiety in excess of this rebate? Will this practice also place Medibank at a competitive disadvantage as doctors who bulk bill Medibank receive a rebate equal to only 85 per cent of the scheduled fee? 

 -Mr Speaker, with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  over the last 6 months there has been an exchange of correspondence concerning 2 important projects in the electorate of Sydney. These projects, one for the South Sydney Municipal Council and the other for the Leichhardt Municipal Council are for welfare centres. The South Sydney Municipal Council has an architect's estimate of the cost of one project- the renovation of the Reg Cope Welfare Centre which has been in existence for approximately 20 years. Reg Cope is a brother of the former  Speaker  of this House,  Mr Jim  Cope. The total cost of the project, is estimated to be $214,000. The property is at 55 Pitt Street, Redfern. It was transferred to the Council on its incorporation in 1968 from the Council of the City of Sydney. There is no trouble about the title. The property is situated within a residential (2)b zone. The unimproved capital value is $26,000 as at 3 June 1975. The Council will provide its share of the project cost from its general revenue fund. There is a plan indicating the location of the Reg Cope Welfare Centre. 
The area is well serviced by bus transport to bring patients to the centre and the centre services residents who are within walking distance. The project is designed to provide dining and welfare facilities for approximately 130 persons daily. Daily activities at the existing centre include cards, television, housie, library and indoor bowls. It is proposed to extend these activities to the new building and to introduce arts and crafts and social events- activities now precluded because of the inadequate accommodation within the existing building. It is considered that there will be no future need to expand the premises. The Council is already operating 4 other welfare centres within the municipality. The 4 centres are the Ron Williams Welfare Centre, the Gordon Ibbett Welfare Centre, the Harry Burland Welfare Centre and the Cliff Nobel Welfare Centre. I do hope that the Minister for Social Security in her wisdom will agree to the allocation of this amount of $214,000. It will help the Reg Cope Welfare Centre in South Sydney. 
There are 2 welfare centres in Leichhardt. One is the Harry Hannaford Welfare Centre. The Council originally decided to buy the property on 15 July 1975. On 18 August 1975 the Council asked the architect to make a report and to prepare a scheme for the conversion of the property to an aged persons centre. The Council received a plan on 15 September 1975. It applied to the Under-Secretary of the Department of Local Government on 24 September 1975. It enclosed the architect's report on the scheme and it was agreed to. The Council advised that the total preliminary cost would amount to $165,480 of which the amount of $55,000 was Council's contribution and was the cost of the land. The Council then asked the State Government for a subsidy of $2 for every $1 under the States Grants (Home Care) Act 1969-73. The estimates went to the State Department of Local Government and were forwarded to the Commonwealth Department of Social Security. While waiting for the subsidy, the Council started to carry on with the work. At this stage it has spent $70,000 including $55,000 for the cost of the land. 
We expect there will be a deputation of South Sydney aldermen, the Mayor of South Sydney, Leichhardt aldermen and the Mayor of Leichhardt to meet the Minister for Social Security in connection with these worthy projects for the older people in the area of Sydney. We would like a sympathetic reply. The City of Sydney has 5 welfare centres. South Sydney has four and the Leichhardt Council has two. I think that consideration should be given to granting these extra few dollars to help the older people of the electorate. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many (a) males and (b) females who were (i) qualified in a trade, (ii) apprentices, (iii) unskilled persons and (iv) professional people aged (A) 16 to 25 years, (B) 26 to 45 and (C) 46 years and over, were registered as unemployed for each month from September 1975. 
) What was the proportion of persons in each category. 
asked the Minister - representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice: 
How many (a) new and (b) second-hand buses and coaches were imported into Australia during the last 2 years. 
What sum was expended on these imported (a) new and (b) second-hand buses and coaches, and what was the country of origin of the vehicles. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has any approval been given for any private medical and hospital fund to increase its fees from 1 October 1976. 
-The Fraser Liberal-National Country Party coalition Government has completed 12 months in control of the Treasury and we now find that it has now made a mess of the country and the Treasury. About 300 000 people are unemployed. The figure will rise to 600 000 unemployed by next March. I am not crowing; I am just making remarks. I ask honourable members to cast their minds back 12 months. The policy of the Liberal-National Country Party coalition before the 1975 election- at the time when it was the caretaker Government- was to provide full employment and to reduce the rate of inflation. We heard the debate this week on devaluation. The Government has stated that there will,be more employment. We hope it is right, but miracles are hard to come by nowadays. 
If we had an election on 13 November how many new faces would be in the Parliament? The oncers in this 30th Parliament would be back in the work force. They could be on the dole and then they might query their own Government's policy. Unemployment is morally wrong. No one in Australia should be unemployed. We agree that if a person is fit she or he should have employment and should be producing and doing something worthwhile for personal satisfaction and for the country's survival. This Government is only talking; but the ship is sinking and the country and the people are being sacrificed. From experience the Fraser Government and Government supporters should wake up to the fact that the private sector of the economy is not concerned with creating jobs. 
-Will the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations call an immediate conference comprising representatives of State and local governments and employers' and employees' organisations to discuss as a matter of urgency the development of a scheme to alleviate the cancerous growth of unemployment in Australia particularly among the young people? 
-A telegram on a matter of urgency was sent to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle).  It read as follows: 
An urgent deputation with State member in the electorate ofSydney - 
House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the strength of the permanent Armed Forces of Australia fallen for the third successive month and are enlistments declining. 
Did he, and other Ministers, repeatedly claim during and after the 1975 election campaign that recruitment to, and re-enlistment in, the Defence Services would increase if a Liberal-Country Party Government was returned. 
If so, why have these predictions come unstuck, and what action is being taken to maintain our Defence Forces at a satisfactory strength. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
With reference to his statement of 6 November 1976, how does he expect the economic recovery to bring about a greater private investment which the Government claims is necessary for economic growth. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many taxpayers elected to pay the 2.S per cent Medibank levy charge. 
How many have joined Medibank Private in any of its benefits scales. 
How many taxpayers elected to join private medical and hospital benefits funds. 
What is the present membership of private hospital and medical benefits funds. 
Has the Treasurer seen the report that members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development regard Australia's claim that a devaluation was necessary because of a massive flow of funds out of the country as laughable? Has the Treasurer noticed the report of hostile reaction to Australia's devaluation from governments overseas? Was the rapid decision to reverse the exchange rate slightly the result of pressure from foreign governments and international monetary circles? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many (a) females and (b) males in the electoral, division of Sydney are in receipt of full or part (i) age, (ii) invalid, (iti) widow's, (iv) supporting mothers' (v) sickness and ( vi) unemployment benefits or pensions. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many mothers in the electoral division of Sydney with children aged (a) 1 to 5 years, (b) 6 to 10 years, (c) 1 1 to 15 years and (d) 16 and over are in receipt of family allowance. 
) How many children are there in the division in each of the age groups in part ( 1 ). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, upon notice: 
What sum in Federal funds was allocated to the Municipalities of: 
Leichhardt, 
South Sydney and 
Sydney in each year since 1 970. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) How many (a) male and (b) female students in Forms 4, 5 and 6 in New South Wales schools will be leaving school at the end of 1976. 
How many of them are expected to (a) go into the work force and ( b ) further their education. 
How many of those entering the workforce are expected to go on to unemployment benefits, and when will the payment of those benefits commence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many (a) male and (b) female students at universities and other tertiary institutions in New South Wales are expected to obtain their degrees in 1 976. 
How many of them are expected to obtain employment in their chosen careers. 
In the case of those unable to obtain employment, when can they apply for, and be paid, unemployment benefits. 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Women's Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether the Working Women 's Centre in Melbourne and the Women's Trade Union Commission in Sydney are short of funds. 
) If so, will he make an immediate grant to each organisation to allow them to carry on their important work. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
How many (a) females and (b) males have been employed by Federal and State Government departments and statutory authorities under the Youth Employment Training Scheme in each of the Commonwealth Employment Service districts in New South Wales. 
) In what capacity has each person been employed. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many approved nursing homes are located in the Electoral Division of Sydney and where is the location in each case. 
What are the names and addresses of (a) the registered owners of each home and (b) the medical practitioners who regularly attend each home. 
What is the number of approved beds in each home. 
What are the weekly charges for patients at each home. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) What Commonwealth public works are (a) under construction and (b) proposed in the Electoral Division of Sydney. 
What is the estimated (a) total cost of the projects, (b) costs of each individual project and (c) completion date of each project. 
In respect of all Commonwealth public works carried out in the Electoral Division of Sydney in each year since 1970, what was (a) the project, (b) the total cost of all projects, (c) the individual cost of each project and (d) the completion date of each project. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Which medical benefits funds have been given approval to increase contributions rates since 1 October 1976  (Hansard,  2 December 1976, page 3212). 
What increase of contribution rate was approved in each case. 
Are the rates fixed at their present levels for any set period. If so, what is the period. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the average enrolment of students in each class in (a) Government and (b) non-Government schools in the Electoral Division of Sydney during each year from 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
How many faculties has (a) the University of Sydney and (b) the N.S.W. Institute of Technology, and what are the faculties. 
How many (a) full-time and (b) part-time students were enrolled in each faculty in each year since 1 970. 
What is the estimated number of enrolments in each year from 1977 to 1980, inclusive. (a)- 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What was the average enrolment of students in each class in (a) Government and (b) non-Government schools in the Electoral Division of Sydney during each year from 1970 to 1976 inclusive. 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to the latest injustice perpetrated by this Government upon the Aboriginal peoples of Australia. In 1957 a co-operative for Aborigines was registered in New South Wales under the Cooperative Act of New South Wales. The cooperative flourished under the very able guidance of the Reverend Alf Clint. It had to be able considering the paternalistic policies of successive Liberal governments. One result of the formation of the co-operative for Aborigines was the establishment of Tranby Co-operative College at Glebe. The college became a focal point of the movement to establish Aborigines' cooperatives throughout Australia. In its own right the Tranby College performs an invaluable function as a teaching institution. Its day and night time students undertake studies in many diverse areas. Fish marketing, accountancy, truck driving and maintenance, nursing and typing are some of them. 
Before I continue, let me clarify one point. Honourable members opposite often display an alarming predilection for confused and loose association of terminology. A co-operative is not a breeding ground for communists or any extremist organisation. The principle is the simple one of people collectively helping themselves by establishing an organisation which encompasses the interests of the group. In Australia the National Country Party has developed rural cooperatives as a policy for the graziers and dairy farmers. Fishermen's co-operatives have transformed the fishing industry, particularly in New South Wales. Above all, however, the notion of the co-operative reflects and encourages a unique aspect of the Aboriginal people's sociocultural makeup. Like most emergent races throughout the world the Aborigines, with few exceptions, have found themselves admirably suited to participation in an enterprise which is structured along co-operative lines. 
The backbone of the educational program conducted by the Tranby Co-operative College is the course in co-operatives and commercial studies. This course was approved as a subject in 1974-75 and it becomes an approved course under the Aboriginal study grants scheme. This year the course in co-operatives was due to start on 14 February 1977. Incredible as it may sound, the College was notified on 10 February that Aboriginal study grants scheme funding had been withdrawn from Tranby students. Students had been recruited from Mornington Island, Palm Island, Townsville, the North Coast of New South Wales and the western and southern districts of New South Wales. Because of the lack of funds these students have been deprived of the opportunity to come to Tranby college. 
Embodied in the Tranby course in cooperatives are the following principles: First, to teach the people to depend on themselves; secondly, to organise them to help one another and to secure the best rewards for their labours through co-operative action; thirdly, to teach the participants to discover and understand the way of their district and to develop and make use of all resources; and fourthly to lift them to a higher level of life, economically, spiritually and socially. I put it to the House: Are these not worthy aims? Evidently the Government does not think so. Twenty-three applications have been held up in respect of Tranby College at Glebe. Study grants are available for students. These study grants do not benefit the College but will help the students who are the Australians of tomorrow. I received correspondence written by the Reverend Alf Clint, the General Secretary of Co-operative for Aborigines Ltd. The address on the letter is 13 Mansfield Street, Glebe. The letter states: 
-When speaking tonight in the debate on the Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty's Speech, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  discussed a wide range of issues, including inflation, unemployment and social welfare. He also attacked the Fraser Government on a very important issue, namely, the winding down of the Australian Assistance Plan from June 1977. 
That is a worthwhile and humane project initiated by the Whitlam Labor Government and funded for 3 years from 1974 to 1977. 1 have in my possession a booklet which was posted to me by the New South Wales Association of Regional Councils for Social Development. The booklet is concerned with the Australian Assistance Plan and is entitled: 'Have we a future'. Its content is a submission to the Federal and New South Wales governments for the continuation of Regional Councils for Social Development in New South Wales from the New South Wales Association of Regional Councils for Social Development. Under the heading 'Have we a future' the booklet states: 
Regional Councils for Social Development, currently funded by the Commonwealth Government, argue in this paper that their record of achievements merits more than being the meat in the Federalism sandwich. We argue and propose the following: 
While acknowledging the Federal Government's desire to reduce expenditure, and sympathising with the State Government in its reluctance to accept programs beyond its capacity to finance, priority must remain with assisting ordinary people to participate in Government decisions and to  initiate  self-help programs. 
Regional Councils have proven over three years that they have the capacity to catalyse the community in a costeffective manner. 
Regional Councils give benefits both directly to the people and indirectly through advice and assistance to Government in its implementation of service delivery and planning programs. 
The major benefits of Regional Councils arise more from their providing a resource base, umbrella and skilled staff to the community than from the provision of direct funding for Services. In fact, given the current confused system of service provision through three levels of government and a multitude of departments, Regional Councils in general prefer not to be a further competitor in this field. 
Availability of welfare grant monies- or 'capitation'- is not an essential requirement for the functioning of Regional Councils. 
Lack of certainty regarding the future of Regional Councils is destroying three years effort at establishing community networks. 
Financing for 1977-78 is required at a level of $68,400 for administrative grants and $16,000 for CDO grants. A fund of $500,000 should be established for community development projects. 
The ten existing Regional Councils should be maintained, and some others should be established. 
The functions of Regional Councils can best be implemented at the regional level, and government should work towards establishment of Regional Councils in every region in New South Wales (approximately twenty in total ). 
The Federal and State governments should both acknowledge that Regional Councils facilitate involvement and effectiveness for their programs, and hence should be jointly funded by both levels of governments. 
The State Government should immediately make a commitment to meet one-half of the cost of Regional Councils for 1977-78. This would cost $913,000. 
The Federal Government should match the commitment of the State Government for funding in 1977-78. 1 Priority for Government must lie in encouraging community involvement and self-help: 1.1 Regional Councils, working as they are with a wide range of disadvantaged segments of the community, could not but agree that life isn't meant to be easy. We support the contention that in many fields the community is capable of tackling its own problems. 1.4 We argue that any country that can afford to spend over $8,000m on community services at a Federal level alone can afford less than $ 10m to ensure that this money is used effectively. It should be spent according to the priorities of the supposed beneficiaries in a manner that harnesses the strength of the community. 
It should not be used to make people increasingly dependent on welfare systems. 
We ask: If assisting less vocal people to have their say is not worth one dollar a head, what is the value of endless statements about 'self-help' and 'participation'? 
I believe it is essential to incorporate in  Hansard  an Australian Assistance Plan booklet entitled 'Have we a future'. I have discussed the matter with the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Staley). 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that the waiting period in New South Wales for the provision of hearing aids to pensioners and others in need is now in excess of 8 months? Is this situation another result of the Government's policy on staff ceilings and economic stringency in the Public Service? Does he believe that it is fair and reasonable to expect handicapped people with hearing defects to wait this length of time for the supply of a hearing aid? If not, will he take immediate action to provide additional staff to the National Acoustic Laboratories? 
-The amendment to the Address-in-Reply states: 
That the following words be added to the Address:  but note that the Speech among other things- 
fails to outline the Government's program for economic management; 
thereby adds to the mounting uncertainty and concern in the community; 
accordingly leads to the belief that the Government's policies will be totally inadequate to contend with worsening inflation, post-war record unemployment, business stagnation and declining living standards for millions of Australians, and 
neglects to outline details of social reforms which are essential to reduce inequalities and to overcome hardships being suffered by so many in need. 
In effect, the Fraser Government has turned the clock back on social reforms and is presently involved in a contemptible campaign to convey the idea that the poor are poor because of their own behaviour, that the unemployed are bludgers, and that supporting mothers are promiscuous. Medibank, the greatest social reform introduced by the Labor Government and the most important for a generation, has been destroyed by the Fraser Government. Medibank meant free automatic universal health insurance for every Australian, and enabled a great part of the worry and expense of illness to be removed. Before the 1975 election  Mr Fraser  promised that Medibank would be retained, but he has since proved to be untrustworthy. Under the pretence of giving the people a choice of health funds,  Mr Fraser  has made Medibank so expensive and unattractive that millions of people have been driven back - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
-The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has not to this stage made a statement on the reformation of the Trade Union Training Authority. This raises the prospect that the TUTA could be left substantially underutilised during 1977 and 1978. The Council of Australian Government Employee Organisations has stated that Mount Eliza, Victoria, and the management training scheme at the University of New South Wales 'could go' as we know them today. The Minister should as a matter of urgency give a statement on another Fraser cutback and the attack on the Australian trade union movement. Today the media made statements on issues which affect us as Australians. Again these statements are in the Press and a reply has not come from the Minister. I quote from the  Canberra Times  of today, 30 March 1 977. It states: 
A combination of Liberal Party backbench outrage over paying government money to the trades union movement and of resentment by established union leadership, is believed to have stimulated a Government decision to appoint a 3-man inquiry into the operations of the Trade Union Training Authority. 
So far the name of only one member of the inquiry,  Mr Harry  Haunschild, is known within Public Service circles. 
He is within the Public Service association. The credibility problem comes back to the Government. The article continues: 
In seeking to seriously modify TUTA, the Government faces the same son of credibility problem it faces in seeking passage of constitutional amendments it opposed three years ago, and repeal of aid legislation it supported at about the same time. 
TUTA was established as a statutory body in September, 1975, the Bill to establish it having been passed without opposition. Two amendments proposed by the then LiberalCountry Party Opposition were accepted by the Whitlam Government. 
The Government's industrial relations platform endorses trade union training, in terms coinciding with the courses which TUTA conducts. The present Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  was a member of TUTA 's council before joining the Ministry. 
The aim of the scheme which has centres in all States is to train union officials- from shop stewards to union officials and secretaries- to improve the quality of union leadership and administration. An article reporting an employer representative, the manager of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd in New South Wales, stated: 
Worker participation would result in a more stable, more effective and more efficient society, according to one of Australia's top executives. 
Participation was needed not only in organisations or companies but in industries, governments and between governments and industries, he said. 

 Mr Gordon Jackson, the general manager of CSR Ltd, made the observations during a seminar - 
The honourable member for Chifley is right again. The report continues: 

 Mr Gordon Jackson, the general manager of CSR Ltd, made the observations during a seminar on worker participation at the University of New South Wales. 

 Mr Jackson said participation in the broad sense was the key to better social relations generally. 
So far in Australia there have been some, but not very much, real change in behaviour as regards worker participation. 
Another article which reported a union official, the Secretary of the Electrical Trades Union in New South Wales, stated today: 
Trade unions are being caught both ways in the inflation and unemployment crises. 
Costs are rising but financial returns are falling because unemployment is reducing membership. 
Unions are also spending money on problems affecting members that caused no worry in a time of full employment. 
In the past workers would often leave a job for another one when industrial relations got difficult. But they were now pressing for union action to right their grievances. 
An Electrical Trades Union spokesman said today its New South Wales branch administration costs had risen 20.3 per cent in the past 12 months. 
The secretary of the union,  Mr D.  McLeish, said there had been an increase called for in services to individual members in award breaches, reinstatements and compensation. 
How are we to receive productivity and national thought when we have a know-not, stop-start, conservative, leaderless government as we have now in this 30th Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister and deals with the building industry. If the cost of imported building materials rises in the next 3 months will the Government honour the rise and fall clauses in its contracts with construction companies? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has the Minister asked the Indicative Planning Council to submit a further report on projected maximum utilisation of available resources in the building and construction industry in the light of the most recent statistics which show that the Council's projections for 1977-78 are clearly unable to be met due to the massive downturn in government support for the industry and consequent loss of skilled tradesmen to other industries and dole queues? 
-In speaking on Appropriation Bill (No. 3), let me first restate the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It states: 
That all words after 'that' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'whilst not denying the Bill a second reading, the House is of the opinion that (a) the slashing of government spending is part of an inept economic strategy which has led to a decline in the standard of living of all Australians and (b) there is an urgent need for alternative policies of promoting a consumer led recovery by cuts in indirect taxes and appropriate stimulatory expenditure on job creation and manpower training programs, all done in a context of not increasing inflation by (i) phasing out the more extravagant business tax concessions, (ii) increasing the money supply but not beyond the rate of inflation plus growth and (iii) instituting a more vigorous bond-selling program'. 
Appropriation Bill (No. 3) permits the appropriation of $247m from the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the purposes specified in the Schedule to the Bill. This amount is made up of $44m for wage and salary increases under the relevant departments and divisions. An allowance of $90m for such increases was made in the original Budget estimates but was not appropriated in individual salary votes. The sum of $9m is sought for the May referenda; $9m for Aboriginal programs; $38m for defence equipment cost increases, $32.5m for student allowances and $6.6m for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Bill was introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this House on 21 April and the sum sought to be appropriated is only a pittance when compared with what should be given for capital works and services, payments to the States and other services. It is a disgrace that the country is coming to a halt. What can we expect in the August Budget this year- a freeze or a tease of the Australian people? 
The previous  speaker  from the Government side, the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  congratulated the Government for saving money by tightening the belt.  His  electorate will not appreciate his remarks. The unemployed, the pensioners, small businesses, house owners and many others in this country will be worried by what the honourable member said tonight. 'Life was not meant to be easy', said the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Under his Government life is not going to be easy for Australians. In this Government's 1976-77 Budget $3m was allocated to the Trade Union Training Authority scheme. A Government inquiry into the Authority is now taking place and should be finalised by the end of June this year. How much will this worthwhile training scheme now under investigation by a select committee, which will recommend alterations to the legislation and pruning of administration costs, receive for its survival in the next Budget? It is believed that the Government is looking at ways in which to cut the Budget and to take away from union representatives control of the curricula in the trade union colleges. 
Over the last month many items have appeared in the Press about this important matter. One item in the  Sun  of Wednesday, 6 April states: 
N.S.W. Labor Council is 'extremely disturbed' by Federal Government appointment of a committee to overhaul the trade union training scheme. 
Labor Council education officer, Bob Carr, said: 'Curtailment will lead to more strikes because many young men and women union officials have learnt and others are learning negotiation procedures, which are of great value in avoiding strikes.' 
Another article in the  Australian,  entitled 'Union trainee programs face overhaul ' states: 
The Federal Government is expected to overhaul the national trade union training scheme it subsidises. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  will announce within a few days the names of a three-man group to inquire into the operations of the scheme, for which the Government provided $3m last year. 
The authority was formed in 1 975 under the former Labor Government and provided for the setting up of a national training college in the Albury-Wodonga growth centre, the Clyde Cameron Training College. Training centres have also been set up in each State with a full-time staff of about 75. 
It is understood the Government wants the inquiry's report ready by the time the Budget estimates are completedprobably in June- so it can make the necessary allocations in this year's Budget. 
Union officials said last night there was no need for an inquiry and opposed the suggestion that the training scheme should embrace management. 
I have had discussions with the Labour Council of New South Wales and the unions. They have stated that they are very perturbed over the issue and they are just waiting to see the outcome of the full inquiry. The  Canberra Times  on 30 March this year reported: 
A combination of Liberal Party backbench outrage over paying government money to the trades-union movement and of resentment by established union leadership, is believed to have stimulated a Government decision to appoint a three-man inquiry . . . 
It also states: 
Government sources were reported yesterday to confirm that the budget for trades-union training would be severely cut back, as reported in the  Canberra Times  several weeks ago. 
The Government's industrial-relations platform endorsed trade-union training, in terms coinciding with the courses which TUTA conducts. The present Minister for Productivity,  Mr Macphee,  was a member of TUTA 's council before joining the Ministry. 
In the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 30 March it was reported: 
The aim of the scheme, which has centres in all States, is to train union officials- from shop stewards to union secretariesto improve the quality of union administration and leadership. 
The committee will investigate the budget provided for the training and recommended alterations to the legislation. 
The committee will also be asked to report whether the training should be integrated with other forms of management education. 
The Government is believed to be looking to cut the budget for trade-union training and take away from union representatives control of the curricula in trade-union colleges. 
Now I would like to speak about the Government's poorly conceived and short sighted plans to overhaul the trade union training scheme. From the outset I think it is important to make it clear to the members of this House that this latest move by the Government is not an isolated affront to the unions, but one of a series of recent manoeuvres to shackle and provoke the unions. Apparently the Fraser Government is determined to cause industrial unrest, obviously as a cover-up for its own ineptitude in handling the economy; but I would like to emphasise that it would be a great tragedy if this unquestionably successful scheme for union training is allowed to be sacrificed for this devious purpose. 
Since its beginning in June 1975 this important initiative of the former Labor Government has proven itself to be an effective means of assisting the unions and unionists to make the maximum use of their resources and to participate more effectively in the industrial relations field. Maybe this is what the Fraser Government and its big business friends find so objectionable about the trade union training scheme. Maybe the scheme has proven itself to be a formidable match to management education, so that the employers no longer enjoy the unfair advantage in industrial relations which they were permitted to enjoy for so long. For a considerable time government has substantially funded various forms of management education. For instance, a federal government established- and this Government continues to fund it- the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales, and this is only one of the numerous forms of assistance currently given to the training of management. In contrast, prior to 1975 the total resources available for union training were negligible compared with those available for management training, and this was despite the fact that 53 per cent of wage and salary earners in public and private employment belonged to unions and that unions played such a key role in Australian society. 
For these reasons the trade union training scheme can only be seen as a move to balance government assistance to management training and not as a union advantage over management or a needless expense, as the Fraser Government would have us believe. No one questions government assistance to meet the needs of the private sector for skilled managers and no reasonable person should question government assistance to union training. After all, both these forms of assistance contribute directly to efficient business operation and industrial peace and thereby the well-being of the whole community. 
Prior to the establishment of the trade union training scheme the full-time union official was placed in the unique position of having to learn his or her skills on the job. There was nowhere that a plumber, an insurance clerk or a waterside worker could systematically or readily acquire new skills as a research officer or as a negotiator. With the introduction of the trade union training scheme union officials and potential union officials were given a much needed opportunity to obtain instruction in how to analyse the significance of the rapid changes currently taking place in industry and industrial relations. They were shown how to accept new ideas and methods and to perform more effectively their organising and administrative duties within the union movement. 
Having now been in operation for nearly 2 years, the trade union training scheme has proven itself to be effective in achieving its worthy goal of promoting trade union competence. In that short time it has achieved considerable success in the closure of the gap that previously existed between unionists and management and in the level of industrial relations, knowledge and technique. An important consequence of this achievement has been the diminishment of tension and frustration between the 2 parties and a more efficient avoidance and resolution of industrial conflict. In those circumstances it seems difficult to understand why the present Government has seen fit to conduct an inquiry into the trade union training scheme. One cannot help but be suspicious about the Government's intentions in this matter, especially when the Government sees no need to examine management training. It would not be surprising or uncharacteristic of this Government if it were to use the inquiry as a smokescreen to justify its intention to reduce the funding of the training scheme in the forthcoming Budget. 
In a Press statement dated 30 March last the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  claimed that there was an urgent need to inquire into trade union training.  Mr Street  made particular reference to 3 areas of trade union training which he considered the inquiry should examine. They were the desirability of integrating trade union training into industrial relations training generally and the closer integration of trade union training with the general education system; the role, membership and staffing of the statutory authority concerned with trade union training; and the cost and methods of financing trade union training. It seems very strange indeed that this Government should suddenly deem it necessary to conduct such an inquiry into these areas of trade union training when less than 2 years ago it saw fit to pass the Trade Union Training Authority Bill without opposition. The two amendments that were put forward by the then Liberal-National Country Party Opposition were accepted by the Whitlam Government. In seeking seriously to modify the Trade Union Training Authority the Government faces the same credibility problem it faces in seeking the passage of the constitutional amendments it opposed 3 years ago. Apparently this Government is not concerned about its inconsistency. In fact, inconsistency is becoming this Government's most consistent trait. 
In March 1975 when my colleague the then Minister for Labor and Immigration,  Mr Clyde  Cameron, presented the Trade Union Training Authority Bill he emphasised in his second reading speech the importance of trade union training remaining the sole responsibility of unions. On that occasion he stated: 
The training of unionists in union functions is a specialised task. Instructors and lecturers need to understand thoroughly their subject and the objectives and nature of the trade union movement. It must be the special responsibility of the union movement to formulate its own training schemes to accord with its own ideas and not to leave them to outside institutions. Thus, the conduct of courses cannot be a joint responsibility of unions and employers. Whilst there are many similar problems facing employer and union bodies there is much they do not have in common. 
While apparently agreeing with those sentiments in 1975, we now find the Fraser Government making a complete about turn on the matter and bowing to employer pressure to reduce union influence over the curriculum of each course and to appoint employer representatives to the councils administering the system. If that happens the Trade Union Training Authority will surely lose much of its proven effectiveness and cease to perform its important function as a counterbalance to government assisted management training. Of the large range of government sponsored or assisted management schools currently operating in Australia, no emphasis is ever placed on participation by the trade union movement. If the Trade Union Training Authority is to remain a viable counterbalance to management training it is essential that this autonomy of the Authority is not lost by its being diffused with management education bodies. 
The Government's industrial relations platform endorses trade union training in terms coinciding with the course that the Authority conducts. On the occasion of the Trade Union Training Authority Bill being returned from the Senate with amendments, the present Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations is recorded in  Hansard  as saying: 
Now the Bill is perfectly acceptable to the Opposition. 
Why is it then that the Government suddenly finds it so necessary to conduct an inquiry into union training when, less than 2 years ago, it wholeheartedly supported the passing of the Trade Union Training Authority Bill? 
This Government's blatant victimisation of the trade union training scheme is a deliberate provocation to the trade union movement. For instance, how much say do unions have in the role of membership, staffing and curriculum at the Australian Graduate School of Management at the University of New South Wales? The truth is that unions are not considered. How can Liberal and National Country Party back benchers and employer groups justly agree that they should be given representation in union training? At this stage I think it is important that I clear up any misunderstanding that may exist in the minds of honourable members. I am not advocating that all training activities for unionists should be carried out in isolation from the rest of the community. Let me make this clear: I believe there is much scope for joint attendance of both unionists and management representatives at courses and seminars held in industrial relations and other associated areas. Such joint training is beneficial to both sections and should be encouraged. 
However, these activities are not designed specifically to develop the expertise of unionists as officials and members in the union movement itself. Therefore, it is imperative that the primary objective of the Trade Union Training Authority remain the adequate provision of trade union training for the trade union movement and by the trade union movement. Honourable members must know by now that the policies of the Fraser Government are rapidly bringing this country to the point where it will be wracked with widespread industrial disruption. The Government's wages policy is undermining the wage indexation system and thereby raising the problem of considerable industrial disputation as unions try to restore real wage levels by pursuing wage claims on individual employers. In addition, the Government is now launching a quite unprecedented attack on the trade union movement, involving widespread legislative and other action. In recent weeks, unionists have been faced with quite momentous amendments to the Trade Practices Act, legislation to enable the Government to sack permanent public servants for any reason, the proposed introduction of tough new stand-down provisions for Federal Government employees and an inquiry into trade union training with terms of reference that portend substantial changes and cutbacks in funding. Coming on top of all this, the introduction of amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act is proof positive of the Government's intentions. It is clearly seeking to smash union power even though it is likely to provoke widespread industrial disruption by so doing. The proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act are clearly designed to debilitate and shackle the unions. The unions are doing a remarkable job in trying to keep peace in this country. Unions will be considerably weakened in respect of maintaining and retaining membership by legislative encouragement of non-membership of unions and the prohibition of any action by them to recruit unwilling members. 
I thank the House. I sought the incorporation of the report so that the people of the Commonwealth could study what is going on in one of the capital cities of Australia. I hope that in their leisure time they will read this remarkably straightforward and down to earth summary of what is happening around them. I will elaborate on the main points of the report. Migrants make up a large proportion of the inner city unemployed. The Mascot CES office estimated that 3/ per cent of the men registered and 50 per cent of the women are migrants. While the other CES offices have not produced estimates on the proportion of migrants registered, they confirm what they term the high migrant content. The manager of the Leichhardt office said that migrants take being without a job harder than most, and added: 'We've had some of the men crying on the counter'. According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the unemployment rates for recently arrived migrants- those arriving since 1968- is almost 50 percent higher than for people born in Australia. Given the recent publicity focusing on discrepancies between CES and ABS figures, this ABS finding confirms the CES figures for inner Sydney, where recently arrived migrants tend to congregate. Most of the unemployed are unskilled or semi-skilled. At all the inner Sydney CES offices, over 75 per cent of the males registered and over 90 per cent of the women registered are unskilled or semi-skilled workers. 
In regard to youth, the unemployed in inner Sydney are overwhelmingly adult. In New South Wales as a whole youth unemployed make up 40 per cent of the unemployed, rising to as high as 60 per cent in areas like Liverpool and Wagga. In inner Sydney they account for less than 20 per cent of the registered unemployed. This does not reflect more job opportunities for youth in inner Sydney. Rather it reflects the aging composition of the population in inner Sydney. 
Tonight I would like to bring to the attention of honourable members the findings of a group of concerned people from my electorate who recently conducted a study of inner city unemployment. This group, known as the Inner City Regional Council for Social Development Unemployment Committee, has been meeting for about 3 months with the aim of examining the needs of the unemployed in the inner city area of Sydney and determining effective ways of providing assistance. The committee has submitted its first report. This report outlines some glaring examples of government oversight which demand urgent government attention. 
Before I begin to spell out the significant contents of this report, I would first stress the point that the valuable work of the committee was done under the sponsorship of the Australian Assistance Plan and that the report represents just one of the many contributions being made to the Australian community by the AAP. For the information of honourable members, the Unemployment Committee's report demonstrated some startling statistics on inner city unemployment. For instance, it was disclosed that within the areas covered by the Commonwealth Employment Service's 5 inner city offices of Marrickville, Leichhardt, Sydney, Surry Hills and Mascot, as at the first week of April, 18 152 people were registered as unemployed, and this represented 10 per cent of the local work force. These figures should be cause for concern in themselves. However, the report revealed an even more disturbing trend. Of particular significance was the fact that the figure of 18 152 unemployed represented an increase of 43 per cent since April last year. By comparison, unemployment increased nationally over the same period by 17.5 per cent. Therefore, according to the CES figures, the rate of unemployment in inner Sydney is higher than for Sydney as a whole. 
It was also revealed in the report that typical persons registered as unemployed in Sydney are male, over 21 years of age, unskilled or semiskilled, migrant and probably single. Some 65 per cent of the registered unemployed in the inner city area are adult men, compared with 46 per cent for New South Wales as a whole. This means that unemployed adult males are thicker on the ground in inner Sydney than anywhere else in that city or in any other capital city of Australia. I have discussed this matter with the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  who is at the table, and he has agreed to the incorporation in  Hansard  of the main points of the report to the Unemployment Committee. I seek leave to have the document incorporated in  Hansard. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 April 1977: 
Have the private hospital and medical benefits funds yet provided the information on the number of privately insured persons, as he expected on 9 December 1976  (Hansard,  page 3680). 
If so, can he now say what is the present membership of the private funds. 
I ask the Minister for Health whether his attention has been drawn to a report that several members of the Hospital and Health Services Commission, including the head of the School of Health Administration at the University of New South Wales, the medical superintendent of Melbourne's Alfred Hospital and the federal secretary of the Royal Australian Nursing Federation, will not be reappointed to the Commission when their terms of office expire? As this reported decision has provoked very strong criticism from the Australian Institute of Hospital Administrators, can the Minister inform the House whether the Government intends to restructure the Commission by terminating these appointments? What experience and qualifications would any new commissioners bring to the task of development of health services that would justify such an action? 
I wish to speak in opposition to proposed new section 45D which deals with secondary boycotts and to agree with the remarks of my colleagues on this side of the chamber. Clause 23, which introduces this proposed new sub-section, would have to be eliminated, in order to have industrial peace in Australia. During the first and second reading stages of the debate, speakers from this side of the chamber stated that this Bill should go back to a House of Representatives select committee. The Government has given its decision. It will go all the way with this clause as it now stands. For the time being the Fraser Government may have backed down on its original controversial Bill to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. But the Bill which it now proposes to the chamber, namely, the Trade Practices Amendment Bill, is just as threatening and potentially damaging to the trade union movement as the former Bill ever was. 
The trade union movement has given a lead in responsible moderation. It has bent over backwards to avoid a confrontation with the Government over its proposed industrial legislation. The unions are well aware that the economy is falling and failing and in particular does not need prolonged and bitter industrial warfare. Yet if confrontation is to be avoided and agreement reached, a stable and consistent Government position, worthy of union trust, is essential. So far the Fraser Government has proven itself to be treacherous and conniving and anything but deserving of the union movement's trust. 
Only last week, we had the example of  Mr Fraser  hedging on an agreement made between his Government and the Australian Council of Trade Unions regarding the proposed amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. On Tuesday last, 5 senior Ministers of the Fraser Government- the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street;  the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony;  the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon;  the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott;  and the Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Viner,  agreed to accept the proposition put to them by the  President  of the ACTU,  Mr Hawke,  that the Industrial Relations Bureau be established without increasing existing powers and legal obligations under the Act, and that the National Labor Advisory Council be reconstituted on a statutory basis. In a Press statement made the same day, the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations specifically said:  ... the Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more, no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. 
Yet last Thursday, the Prime Minister made an attempt to subvert this agreement. He is quoted in the Press as having said that the Industrial Relations Bureau will be able independently to initiate prosecutions of unions and employers. This statement is in direct contradiction to the statement of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations on Tuesday. 
The Prime Minister was asked whether the Industrial Relations Bureau would be able to initiate prosecutions 'off its own bat' under the penal powers of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. His reply, as recorded in the Press, was: 
It will be able to bring matters to the attention of the Industrial  Court-  of course it will- and the court makes its judgment. This is the whole point of it. It will be able to initiate action, of course it will, and the court will then make its judgment about what should be done. This is the whole thrust of that principle. 
When asked again about whether the Industrial Relations Bureau would be able to bring prosecutions before the Industrial Court, the Prime Minister said: 
Yes, that is the whole concept of the Industrial Relations Bureau. That concept is not altered at all. 
Therefore, according to that statement, the IRB will be able to apply to the court to have penalties imposed on a union for a break of a no-strike order. Furthermore, the IRB will be able to apply for the insertion of a no-strike clause which would lead to penalties being imposed. These proposed functions of the IRB are in marked contrast to the present role of the Arbitration Inspectorate. Under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act at present, the inspectorate is specifically prevented from applying to the Industrial Court to have' penalties imposed on a union for breaching a no-strike order. It is little wonder then that the trade union movement does not trust the Fraser Government. Even when agreements are made there is no guarantee that the Government will not try to back out of them. 
Viewed in this light, it is understandable that the trade union movement should be taking a no-compromise stance with the proposed amendments to the Trade Practices Act. These amendments, in the form of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1977, particularly section 45d of that Bill and other industrially significant amendments such as 4b (1) and (2), represent a despicable attempt to impose on the Australian trade union movement restrictions on the freedom to take industrial action, which has historically been the right of the Australian work force, and which is guaranteed by International Labour Organisations conventions, ratified by the Australian Government, to unions and associations of workers throughout the free world. 
These proposed repressive measures prohibiting unionists from exercising legitimate activities on behalf of their members should be enough to make any thinking politician associated with the passing of this Bill and having the slightest shred of conscience, hang his head in shame. The clear intention of this Bill is to weaken the union movement, to bring the cudgel back in again to industrial relations policy and consequently to ensure fierce and prolonged industrial warfare in this country. It would not be uncharacteristic for the Fraser Government to be deliberately planning for the implementation of this Bill to provide the right pre-conditions for the introduction of the remainder of the amendments to the Conciliation and Arbitration Act. Bitter and widespread industrial warfare is the excuse the Government needs for implementing the remainder of its vicious attacks on trade unionism. 
At first glance, the Trade Practices Amendment Bill gives the impression that only secondary boycotts by employees are to be prohibited, but this is misleading. In fact, and in law, proposed new section 45d would make any form of industrial activity illegal and punishable by massive fines on individual employees and unions, plus providing for separate actions in the courts for damages. There are important implications for the union movement of the introduction of the Trade Practices Amendment Bill. 
Firstly, it will mean that no union or association will be permitted to take any legitimate action when the occasion demands, and all forms of strikes, boycotts, black bans or picket lines, will be forbidden, however justified or necessary they may be. Secondly, any attempt to resort to action which free trade unions all over the world are able to use, could expose individuals and unions to fines imposed by the Federal Court of Australia of up to $50,000 for individuals and up to $250,000 for unions. It should be pointed out here that a strike or go slow can be interpreted not as an act hindering or preventing supply but as a series of acts hindering or preventing supply and could therefore expose the unionists or union to several fines, each of up to $50,000 or $250,000 as the case may be. 
Thirdly, there are to be no exceptions to the ban contained in section 45D and even if the action is on account of disputes over wages or conditions of work, including safety, it  w3l  still be banned. Fourthly, any individual, including employers, may apply for injunctions, even retrospectively, preventing action and union leaders or rank and file members could be gaoled if they attempted to defy the injunction, however unwarranted the case of the employer. Fifthly, apart from crippling fines for the action, unions and their members would face damages cases by which employers or individuals could recover what they claimed to have lost in the dispute. 
These damages will include not only the immediate loss caused by the disruption to the corporation 's production or sales, but also other losses following as a consequence of that disruptionfor example, the cost of making alternative arrangements and the profit the corporation would have made on contracts it was unable to enter because of the disruption to supplies. Therefore, such damages awarded could be high, so high that even a wealthy union could be crippled and a struggling union totally wiped out. 
Sixthly, if section 45D becomes law, not only will the rights of employee organisations to represent their members be at an end, but also the rights of all citizens to seek betterment of their way of life will be under threat. Therefore, it is imperative that this undemocratic and reactionary Bill be prevented from becoming law. If this Bill is allowed to be passed without revision, then unions will be returned to the intolerable position they occupied in mid- 19th century England when they could in theory organise but were denied the power to use their organisation. It will mean a return for the workers to the worst conditions of the 19th century where the edict 'Work on our conditions or starve' was the employers' catchcry. 
Quite simply the unions cannot afford to accept this legislation because it will mean a sellout of what the Australian trade union movement stands for and what it has fought for for over a century. By the 'union movement' I mean the vast majority of Australia's 6 million work force. These are the people who will be affected by this new legislation and these are the people whose wages and living conditions will deteriorate as a result. The whole trade union movement- white collar, blue collar, right, left and centre- are affected by this Bill and all sections of the trade union movement are prepared to fight it to the end. If this Bill is passed, then Australia must prepare itself for a repeat of the Clarrie O'Shea fiasco - 
I again speak opposing the proposed new section 45d of the Trade Practices Act dealing with secondary boycotts. If this Bill is passed Australia must prepare itself for a repeat of the Clarrie O'Shea fiasco because the gaoling of a unionist and its resultant rolling national strikes are the most likely consequences of the reintroduction of the regressive and provocative penal clauses. Honourable members may recall that on that occasion in 1969 the wheels of industry came to a halt as workers in their thousands stopped work in protest at the gaoling of a fellow unionist. Ever since then the employers have learned the lesson that these sorts of harsh measures just do not work. Evidently the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has not learned this lesson. The Government seems to be counting on low level business activity and high unemployment to have sapped the strength of the union movement. But I think this may prove to be a gross miscalculation by the Prime Minister and his Government. The trade union movement is still very strong and well prepared to fight if the penal powers are revived. The unions do not want a confrontation but if the Prime Minister continues to push the unions into a corner by 
E passing this blatant anti-union legislation he will ave a fight on his hands and the Australian people, on the whole, will suffer as a result. 
By introducing the Trade Practices Amendment Bill the Fraser Government is making a deliberate attempt to do the unthinkable in this democracy; that is, to prevent opposition from any section of society opposed to this Government and its big business backers. This Bill demonstrates without any doubt the single minded obsession of the Fraser Government with the question of strikes and its inability to find any suitable means of living with them. Difference of opinion is a healthy sign of democracy being alive and well but here in Australia Malcolm Fraser wants to install his own brand of fascism - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  'The Right Honourable the Prime Minister' is the accepted term. 
I withdraw that,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I will be guided by your wisdom. The Prime Minister will squash all dissent, especially that arising from the workers. He believes that life was meant to be hard for the workers and that they just have to accept that. If they do not the Prime Minister proposes to force them to accept it. I think the Prime Minister, the narrow minded authoritarian and 'throwback' from the last century, is soon in for the biggest surprise of his life. Remarkably, despite this extreme provocation by the Prime Minister and his Government, the trade unions have displayed commendable restraint. Proof of this is revealed in their record over recent months of containing something like 95 per cent of wage increases in national wage decisions and of keeping the level of industrial disputes in January the lowest for 8 years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  I ask the honourable member for Sydney to try to tie his remarks to clause 23, which is under consideration. 
Examples of this deliberate and severe provocation of the trade union movement by the Fraser Government, such as in relation to section 45d of the Trade Practices Act, since its election to office in 1975 are prolific. One example which immediately comes to mind is the Government's handling of wage indexation. This important antiinflationary initiative of the Labor Government, which had the full support of the union movement, has been progressively eroded by the Fraser Government. The unions have tolerated this despite the Prime Minister's specific promise to maintain indexation. The unions have also tolerated a substantial shift of national income from labour to the profits of private companies. Other examples of union provocation have been: The Fraser Government's assault on the trade union training scheme; its interference with union elections; and its contemptible disregard for the ever increasing number of unemployed. But rather than ease up on the unions the Fraser Government has chosen to step up its harassment of them. So far the Prime Minister has been met only with co-operation or at times, mild protest. But the trade union movement's tolerance is now at its limit and these proposed legislative assaults by the Government on the sources of union power just cannot and will not be overlooked. 
It is obvious that the Government lacks popular support for its hard line on the unions, otherwise it would not be trying so desperately hard to promote industrial unrest. The Government seems to believe that if it can cause widespread industrial action it will then have the justification for introducing its powerful anti-union weaponry. This logic tends to explain the authoritarian role played by the Government in the recent Victorian oil dispute and the air traffic controllers strike. It is disgraceful to think that a government would go to this extent to influence public opinion on its policies. One wonders just ow far the Fraser Government is prepared to go to get its way. 
I wish to speak to Part VTA of the Bill which is to amend the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and which sets up the Industrial Relations Bureau. Speakers from this side of the chamber- the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  and the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  speaking to this provision have said that they see troubled waters in future when we would like to have industrial peace. The average Australian worker, the trade unionist, is a little upset with regulations, and this legislation will provide other regulations. The honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Burr),  speaking to various clauses of the Bill have stated that there is nothing in the legislation that will upset or incite the trade union movement. I seriously hope that they and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  who is at the table, and the Government are right. But I personally think that we are sitting on a time bomb. 
The trade union movement has been with us for over 100 years and it will be with us for at least the next 100 years. We all know that workers will always unite where injustice takes place. Even if Parliament were dissolved tomorrowhonourable members should always remember this-we are all workers and worried about Australia's future. Let us reflect that on Tuesday 17 May, 5 senior Ministers of the Fraser Government met with the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and agreed to accept his proposals that the Government establish the Industrial Relations Bureau without increasing existing powers and legal obligations under the Conciliation and Arbitration Act and that the National Labour Advisory Council be reconstituted on a statutory basis. The 5 senior Government Ministers present at this meeting were: The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Anthony,  the Minister for Transport,  Mr Nixon,  the Attorney-General,  Mr Ellicott  and the Minister Assisting the Treasurer,  Mr Viner.  Immediately after this meeting  Mr Street  issued a Press statement which outlined the terms of the agreement reached by  Mr Hawke  and the Government. In regard to the proposed role of the Industrial Relations Bureau  Mr Street  made the following remarks: 
The Industrial Relations Bureau will have the same powers as the Arbitration Inspectorate, no more, no less, and those powers will be exercised according to the same processes as they have been until now. 
Two days after this agreement had been reached, and imminent industrial warfare had been averted, at least for the time being, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made statements about the proposed role of the Industrial Relations Bureau which immediately placed the fragile agreement between the Government and the unions in jeopardy. Commenting on the intended powers of the Industrial Relations Bureau the Prime Minister stated that the IRB would still be able independently to initiate prosecutions of unions and employers. These comments were notoriously contrary to the assurances on the IRB's powers which were given by  Mr Street  and the other senior Cabinet Ministers just 2 days beforehand and which formed the basis for the trade unions decision to accept the IRB legislation. Then, on the same day, another senior Government Minister, a man well known to share the Prime Minister's rigid and despotic anti-union sentiments- the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair-  was reported to have stated that legislation to be brought before Parliament in the next week- that is today- would extend the protection available against trade union excesses and that the trade unions had accepted these new procedures and constraints. 
No doubt the unions are now wondering why in the first place they ever trusted the Fraser Government to keep an agreement. The Government's credibility has been shattered time and again since its election to office. The Government's handling of this industrial relations agreement has just confirmed popular belief that this Government is not to be trusted. It has always acted with expediency and treachery and it always will.  Mr Hawke,  on behalf of the 1.8 million workers represented by the ACTU, had acted in good faith and had shown a lead in cooperative moderation. With the overwhelming support of the trade union movement he had made a genuine attempt to avoid a bitter and disastrous confrontation between the unions and the Government. The Government has treated these bids to compromise with nothing less than contempt and deception. 
The working days lost per worker has been dropping steadily since the moderately high level of 1973 and the actual number of disputes has been falling since 1974. Even the wages lost through strike action were lower in 1976 than in 1 974. Last year, for example, the figure for working days lost per worker because of strikes was about 0.2 of a day for the year. In contrast, it was nearly 4 times as great at the end of the World War II, 1 1 times as great just before the Depression and more than 20 times as great just after World War I. In this light the Government's current hard line and oppressive approach to the unions seems hardly warranted or desirable. As evidence of lack of Government support for this proposed legislation we witnessed in recent weeks the Government bending over backwards in its attempt to cause widespread strikes in a desperate bid to raise public support for its clearly unwanted proposal. In the case of the Victorian oil dispute we had the Government making repeated offers of assistance to Premier Hamer when they were distinctly not wanted or needed.  Mr Street  even went to the ridiculous extent of threatening to call in the troops. Over the last couple of weeks, during the air traffic controllers strike, we had both  Mr Nixon  and  Mr Fraser  threatening to bring down strong industrial relations disputes legislation if the strike continued, and we had  Mr Fraser  even threatening to call in the Air Force. 
Since the Government first tabled the Bill, employers have voiced their strong and determined opposition to it. One employer organisation- the Australian Industries Development Association, which is a research body financed by big business- stated in its March bulletin that the new Industrial Relations Bureau to be set up under the proposed Conciliation and Arbitration Bill would meddle too much in the industrial policies of business. It argued that the legislation would create more industrial unrest, not less. That is in stark contrast with what the Minister, the Prime Minister and other champions of law and order keep telling us. AIDA pointed out that employers have to face the consequences of industrial warfare brought on by the Government's proposed penalty legislation, and it left no doubt in one's mind that employers are worried by the enormity of what is being proposed. 
I know that it is late in the day, but I call upon the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations to show restraint. The Trade union movement asked for a chance to come to the conference table and it did so. The Trade union movement has put all its faith in the Minister, as has been said by my colleagues. I hope that when the time comes he will carry out the promise he made to the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions. Australia could be in turmoil if the promise is not kept. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-In  the same conciliatory fashion, I say that the Chair has bent over backwards to be lenient in the case of the speech of the honourable member for Sydney. It could have been a speech on the motion for the second reading of the Bill or the title of the Bill. I just mention that in passing. We obviously do not want to encourage too wide a debate at this stage. 
-Is the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that the Murawina Aboriginal Child Centre at Chippendale in my electorate of Sydney has been waiting for months for promised funds to continue its excellent work? Does he appreciate that the centre is established in a disused factory with the only outdoor play area for the children the dangerous streets of Chippendale. Will he take action to see that the promised funds are made available immediately? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
Has his attention been drawn to reported cases of water or food poisoning on a recent KLM flight to Sydney. 
What precautions are taken either by his Depanment or by corresponding authorities overseas, to ensure that water and food provided to international air travellers on the journey to and from Australia are free from contamination. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) What was the total sum allocated to the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the 1 976-77 Budget. 
What amounts have been allocated or promised to Aboriginal organisations and establishments in the Electoral Division of Sydney. 
3 ) When will any outstanding amounts be paid. 
I speak against the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill and support the honourable members for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  and Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  from this side of the House. I answer a question asked by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  in relation to the Redfern Mail Exchange dispute. There was a recommendation from the officials of that union. Rightly so, the rank and file members have rejected the recommendation. I hope that information is handy to the House. It should go on record that members do control their unions. Members have the right if they are financial and at the meeting to say yea or nay. It was said that no honourable member on this side of the House had mentioned the Redfern Mail Exchange dispute. I think that not one honourable member m the Liberal and Country Parties has had a chance to peruse the Bdi. 
-If they have had time someone has had the Bill half a day before we got it. We received a copy of the Bill this afternoon at 3 o'clock. We have been trying to go through it in order to put up an argument about what the Government is doing to the country. If the Government carries out the provisions in the Bill there will be head-on confrontation. It does not know what it is doing. My interpretation after listening to the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  is that on principle he has to walk over here tonight and vote against the Government. Otherwise, he said, he would lose his seat. Not only will he lose his seat but also 20 or 25 honourable members on the Government side could lose their seats without the Labor Party going out into the streets to get the people's vote if the election is held in December this year. From the way things are going I suggest that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street),  the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  and I would say the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  have connived with the inner sanctum of the Liberal and Country parties. If they want an election they should say so and not hum and haw. They should take us on now. 
After next week we will know about the redistribution. We will know what will happen to our seats. If the Government wants to take us on with the moderates and the other people in the trade union movement, then we will go. I am not worried about an election, nor is anybody on this side of the House. The Government is taking us on. It is conniving. It brought down this Bill. I do not think honourable members have even read the Bill. I had to read it between 6 o'clock and 7 o'clock tonight. No one even knows, at this stage, that this is a Bill for an Act to make provision with respect to certain matters concerning Commonwealth employees. Clause 4 on page 3 states: 
Where persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to an employing authority are engaged in industrial action, the employing authority may, by instrument in writing, declare that Commonwealth employees specified in the declaration - 
The main part follows. 
The main part states that Commonwealth employees engaged in industrial action may be suspended. Clause 5 on page 3 of the Bill states: 
Where, by reason of the existence of any industrial action (including industrial action in which Commonwealth employees are not engaged): 
persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to an employing authority cannot be usefully employed; or 
there is serious disruption to the performance of a function by an employing authority, being a function in connexion with the performance of which persons who are Commonwealth employees in relation to the employing authority are employed- 
The clause goes on to state that Commonwealth employees affected by the industrial action of other persons may be stood down. Clause 6 deals with salaries, et cetera, not being payable during a period when Commonwealth employees are suspended or stood down. In other words, Commonwealth employees receive no pay at all; they are suspended. Then, we go back to the main part, which is clause 8. It states that the Minister may dismiss when: 
a Commonwealth employee has been suspended by virtue of a declaration by an employing authority under section 4; 
the declaration has not been cancelled or otherwise ceased to be in force; and 
the employing authority or a Minister is of the opinion that it is in the public interest that the powers of the employing authority under this sub-section should be exercised in relation to the employee- 
In other words, a Minister can dismiss any employee. But this is not the case only at the Redfern Mail Exchange, where 5 000 employees and their families are involved. I ask: Who wants to go on strike? Which honourable members opposite are members of a trade union? Do they know what it is like to be a union official, to go somewhere at 6 o'clock in the morning and find that employees have taken direct action because they have been forced to do so by the employers, because of the conniving that takes place? I have gone through this. Who wants to call a strike when a chap is broke and his family- the wife and the mother-do not have any money? They come down to the union office pleading for some money. Who wants that? But who is causing this situation? Who does not understand it? It is the honourable members from the Liberal and National Country parties who have talked in the debate tonight. Would they understand what the union is about? The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  stated that we have legal advisers. We do not have legal advisers. The honourable member was arguing that we have to be looked after and that we have a trade union training school. The average trade union official comes from the ranks. He needs help. We need conciliation and arbitration. 
What will happen in the future in regard to conciliation and arbitration? The Government, through the introduction of the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill today, has thrown conciliation and arbitration out the door. It is completely gone; it is finished. Why should not the unions unite? If this legislation goes through the Parliament, I will be down there at the mail exchange to lead the men on a principle. The men who have done all the work as union officials over the years, as I, the average trade union delegate, the average rank and file member and the average person who loves Australia have done, will take sides if this legislation is passed. The Government would not have a clue about what it is doing. If it wants this legislation as an election gimmick, it should say so. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  for some reason or other, has a death wish. He will sacrifice many young Liberals and members of the National Country party-mostly young Liberals. We know that. 
I am very pleased to be able to say that the Government will sacrifice tonight the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  who stated that he has to cross the floor on this issue. He has been sacrificed with the introduction of this Bill. He did not know what was going on. Let me give a quotation from just one newspaper. The early edition of the  Mirror  carried an article, under the headline Mail Strike Truce May Clear up Backlog' and written by Ray Turner, which stated: 
The Minister for Post and Telecommunications,  Mr Robinson,  told Federal Parliament yesterday the Postal Commission would begin stand-downs tomorrow, but this was before the arbitration conference yesterday. 
Has the Minister forgotten about the arbitration system? What has happened? In other words, he has taken the matter out of the hands of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. I will quote another point made by Ray Turner: 
The New South Wales secretary of the Postal and Telecommunications Union,  Mr Merv  Hawkins, said the union was trying to get the rosters re-arranged so its members did not lose any money. 
He said the new rosters proposed by Australia Post would result in the employees losing substantial shift penalty payments. 
Why would not the employees be upset? Why should they be sacrificed? Sometimes there is more support from the National Country Party and the Liberal Party for animals than for people. Truly, honourable members opposite worry so much about their flocks and their stocks. What about the young people and the family people? Honourable members opposite do not even worry about them. They have forgotten what it is all about. I point out that the conference of the Australian Council of Trade Unions in 3 weeks time will be discussing this matter. I think it will be on the agenda. 
Honourable members opposite are laughing. They do not understand the seriousness of this matter. It will be on the agenda and a motion of support for government employees will be adopted unanimously. It is not just the postal workers about whom the Council has to worry. What about government employees in the railways and on the docks? Do we bring in the Army, the Navy and the Air Force? Do we sack all the people in Canberra? Perhaps the Government will do so, and that is what Wil happen if this legislation is passed. Do honourable members opposite know what they are doing? They are not taking on just the postal workers; they are taking on all Commonwealth employees. We will all be out of a job and that will be good because the average Australian says Sack all the politicians. They are doing nothing'. I say to honourable members opposite that they should watch what they do. The honourable members who have been attempting to interject during my speech are the oncers. I would be worried, too, if I was a oncer. At this stage, I hope that I have a little more time here. I hope that I have more time to educate people in the Parliament. 
The honourable member is so right. But honourable members opposite will not receive an extra vote if they take on the trade union movement. There are responsible people in the trade union movement. The point I am trying to convey on the Bill, which has just been introduced in this House- it is a serious one- is that the Government will sacrifice many of its members. In 3 weeks dme the ACTU conference will be endorsing the stand that will be taken by all Commonwealth employees. The Commonwealth employees will be united. It will be the first dme they have been united in 50 years. Good luck to them, because we are united over the issue. It is a moral principle. We in the Labor movement have differences of opinion about how to do things and how not to do them; but, if somebody takes on the trade union movement, he takes on the whole Labor Party side because we are all brothers. The trade union movement is made up of the small people. The Australian Labor Party was formed by the trade union movement in Balmain back in the 1880s, in particular in 1889. It was formed there because there will always be a base for such a movement. Honourable members opposite should watch what they are doing. I am very upset and sorry that today the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in one minute introduced legislation that will change industrial relations in Australia. In one minute he threw the second reading speech on the table and said: 'I have the numbers. Take it or leave it '. 
I address my question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it a fact that approximately 15,000 young people have been assisted under the special youth employment training program since its introduction and that 8,500 were in training under the scheme at the end of July? Is the Minister aware that the Australian Bureau of Statistics reported that 147,400 persons between the ages of 15 and 24 were unemployed at the same time? Do the 8,500 people training under the scheme at the end of July represent less than 10 per cent of the young unemployed? Will he take urgent action to assist the 90 per cent of unemployed young people to obtain training and/or employment? 
I must say at the outset that I am very upset about what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said in reply to a question asked this morning by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  I would say that the way in which he attacked the Leader of the Opposition, who is not here, was slanderous. What he said during the last five minutes does not do service to the Liberal Party and does not do service to the Prime Minister of Australia. I do not want to waste my time on the Prime Minister. I expect that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party will answer him in the correct manner at a time which suits the Leader. 
This Government is bankrupt, both of ideas and financial expertise, and is not fit to govern our great country. Just over the last two days the honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  and the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  both have denounced the 1977-78 Budget brought down by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  in this House, Not only the younger members of this Government are attacking their leaders- I do not wonder why having heard what the Prime Minister has just stated- but also the older and most respected members are doing so, and doing it openly. This Government is on very shaky grounds in its fight for survival. The Prime Minister and his advisers were contemplating a snap election. I am convinced, after hearing what the Prime Minister said in the last five minutes, that he is a very worried man. I think that over the next two months the Prime Minister will be saying less about an election. I think he is worrying about his survival. 
Three weeks ago the Treasurer announced his Government's alleged master plan for the nation's economic recovery over the next year. Rather than being seen as an economic document, the Budget had the immediate impact on the media of increasing speculation about an early election. With the so-called revolutionary changes in the tax structure, the absence of increased duties on cigarettes and alcohol and a staggering increase in the price of petrol which is due to come into effect in the middle of next year, it was thought that the Government was preparing for an early election in order to avoid the reaction of the electorate to next year's massive increase in unemployment, continuing double figure inflation and a further deterioration of the economy. 
However, unforeseen by the Government, the media were quick to realise the hollowness and treachery contained in the Government's Budget proposals. The day after the Budget was delivered the newspapers were questioning the accuracy of the Budget figures, especially those concerning the new tax structure, and they generally attacked the Government for the extent of its deviousness. The subsequent attempts by the Prime Minister and the Treasurer to cover up only fuelled the growing belief of the Australian public that the Budget was a fraud and a serious impediment to Australia's chances of economic recovery. Therefore, within a matter of days, the 
Budget was totally discredited as a worthy election Budget, and so the chances of an early Federal election disappeared. 
If it is not an election Budget, what is it? It certainly is not a serious attempt by the Government to restore Australia's economic and social wellbeing. The fact is that this Budget is nothing more than a continuation of last year's Budget strategy- a Budget which increased the number of unemployed by 90,000, prolonged high inflation rates, obliterated business confidence, savagely reduced personal incomes with the result of stifling any chance of a consumer led recovery, fanatically hacked away at public spending without any regard for its immediate effects on the poorer members of our community or its long term social and economic costs, and worst of all, a Budget which totally rejected the goals of reducing inequality and social injustice and of enhancing the quality of life of aU Australians in fact it actively sought a widening of the gap between the rich and the poor. 
It is obvious from an examination of this Budget that the Government is bankrupt of any workable economic alternatives. It is clinging to an economic strategy which has proven over the last year that it is not working and is not likely ever to work. The fact that the Government still clings to the same stale and unworkable policies is positive proof of the Government not being in command of the situation but instead being fixated to its one and only unimaginative and over simplistic recipe for economic disaster. 
While justifying the 1975 coup on the grounds of their superior economic management skills, the Liberal-National Country parties have proceeded to prove without a doubt that they are the greatest economic mismanagers Australians have ever witnessed. As a result of their short but thorough term of mismanagement, Australia can no longer regard itself as a lucky country. In less than 20 months of conservative government Australian living standards have fallen by more than four per cent, thus placing Australia comparably worse off in many important ways than other Western democracies whose national wealth and resources are less than ours. 
Worse than that, the last two Lynch Budgets have blatantly and unashamedly depressed Australian living standards in an inequitable manner, with the intention of giving more to the rich at the expense of the poor. The Treasurer calmly explains that the rich have to be given incentives so that economic growth can take place. If the rich are made more contented, he argues, then they will provide jobs for the workers. What sort of feeble-minded, nineteenth century reasoning is that? Whatever happened to our noble objectives of stamping out social injustices wherever they occurred in this country, of providing equality of opportunity for all Australians, of helping the disadvantaged to help themselves, and of providing dignified and adequate support for all those unable to provide for themselves. 
The Treasurer obviously believes that such goals are extravagant and unable to be afforded in these times of economic recession. Instead he believes that the present unjustifiable imbalance of national wealth should be further aggravated by redistributing a greater share of the national wealth from the workers and social security beneficiaries to the top ten per cent of Australia's income earners. The last two Lynch Budgets have had that as one of their primary objectives, and unfortunately it is one of the few objectives in relation to which the Government has had a degree of success. 
In the 1976-77 Budget Medibank was slashed by $450m; health services were doubled; programmed expenditure on four education commissions was reduced by $172m; tuition fees for second and higher degrees were reintroduced; taxing of social security pensions and benefits was introduced; grants for senior citizens centres were terminated; expenditure on sickness and unemployment benefits was cut by $33m; subsidies for aged persons homes were reduced by SO per cent; funding for the Australian Assistance Plan was completely withdrawn; funding for the Aboriginal people was cut by 30 per cent in real terms; the Labor Government's programs for urban and regional development were virtually destroyed; funds for the school dental service were frozen; the legal aid service was strangled before it had a chance to function; child care services were savagely cut back, and despite all these cuts in government expenditure, taxes were also increased by 25 per cent and the Government did everything in its power to curb wage increases, with the result that over the year average wages fell by $ 1 1 .50 a week. 
At the same time as the Government was pruning back community services, welfare payments and wages, it was doling out money to big business. The coal industry which had made profits of around $500m the previous year was given the huge and totally pointless windfall from reduced export duties, resulting in gifts of tens of millions of dollars to large and prosperous coal companies such as Utah; shareholders were rewarded with further subsidised profits; and generous tax loopholes were created for Pitt and Collins Street farmers. Where are the members of the National Country Party now? Not one of them is here to defend himself. And the superphosphate bounty was restored at an annual cost of $50m, of which the Prime Minister and many of his Cabinet colleagues are potential beneficiaries. 
Now again in the 1977-78 Budget the same warped reasoning, tainted values and insensitivity to the nation's needs underlie the Government's policies. In the same manner as it did in the previous Budget, the Government is serving notice to the world that one of the richest and most fortunate nations on earth cannot afford to provide for its people the minimum standards of health care, housing, public transport, urban development and social amenities enjoyed by all other advanced Western democracies; but at the same time it can afford to make inequitable and considerable concessions to a handful of people who are already on the highest incomes and who are very secure in their jobs. 
Just as occurred in the previous Budget, real government spending has been cut, this time by nearly two per cent. Combined with the cut of approximately four per cent last year, this year's level of government spending will lead directly to severely reduced employment opportunities, particularly in the already depressed building and construction industries. By January next year 430,000 Australians will be unemployed with the young continuing to bear the major burden of unemployment in 1977-78. In the opinion of most economists this year's Budget does nothing about the unemployment problem except make it worse. It can only be assumed that once again the Government is deliberately using unemployment as a weapon to reduce real wages and salaries. 
As in the previous Budget, the only people who will gain from this year's Budget are the wealthy. As a result of the so-called revolutionary tax cuts the vast majority of people will receive a paltry $3 a week, most of which will be immediately swallowed up by higher petrol prices and rising inflation. In comparison, the rich people, those on the highest salaries, will gain more in take home pay each week than the majority of taxpayers receive in their total weekly earnings. What a cruel fraud this proposed tax cut is. No wonder the  Australian Financial Review,  two days after the delivery of the Budget, was prompted to condemn it as a shabby confidence trick unworthy of any serious government. 
As in the previous Budget, excessive concessions were given to those already well off, such as the mining companies. An estimated $800m of potential company tax receipts will be given to company profits. Meanwhile the Government repeats its failure to institute selective stimulatory expenditure to reduce unemployment and restore consumer confidence. Like last year there is no allocation of funds in the Budget for local employment programs despite the fact that unemployment is soaring at record post-Depression levels, especially in areas such as Sydney's western suburbs, Townsville, Kwinana, Ballarat and Nowra. In fact the dramatic reduction in capital works programs will greatly contribute to the unemployment problems of many of these areas. The only assistance the Government offers is its Relocation Assistance Scheme which provides no direct employment opportunities. At a time when  40  per cent of unemployed persons are youths and the proportion is increasing the Government, in its wisdom, has decided to expand the special youth employment training program to include unemployed persons between the ages of 20 years and 24 years. This extended program will give only 20,000 young people employment assistance in 1977-78 when in one single month, May this year, 147,000 young people between the ages of 15 years and 24 years were unemployed. 
That is right. It is doing so in our area of New South Wales. With regard to apprenticeship training the Government admits that there is a continuing shortage of skilled labour and an increasing pool of unskilled labour. Yet it still neglects to provide adequate funds for training and retraining programs. The Government has reduced the allocation of funds in the Budget for apprenticeship training under the Commonwealth Rebate Apprenticeship Full-time Training scheme and the National Apprenticeship Assistance Scheme by $ 1 .6m, a reduction of nine per cent in real terms. 
Despite all this evidence highlighting the Government's failure to act to stimulate employment opportunities and the economy in general, it still attempts to pour blame on the union movement for its own economic incompetence. Although the number of man hours lost through strikes is at a 10-year low several Ministers have claimed that industrial disputation is responsible for inflation and unemployment and have threatened further industrial legislation to solve our economic problems. Any such attack on the union movement such as the recently introduced 
Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) Bill is quite plainly designed only to divert public attention from the Government's own failures and to provoke the union movement into confrontation with the Government. This is a situation which the Government obviously believes to be to its electoral advantage. Otherwise it would not pursue it with such force and determination. 
As in the previous Budget the prospect of this Budget reducing inflation this year is very dim. Even though reducing inflation is claimed by the Goverment to be its overriding concern, the increase in petrol tax on top of unnecessary devaluations and the destructive changes to Medibank will guarantee another year of rapid price increases. In spite of the Treasurer's assertions to the contrary the official Treasury figures released in connection with the Budget show that the underlying rate of inflation has jumped by 47 per cent in the last six months. All estimates are that the rate of inflation will be at least 1 1 per cent to 12 per cent in 1977-78. Once again in the Lynch Budget the Government has cut back spending on essential community services, a policy which will only guarantee further deterioration of the Australian quality of life and will place unbreakable financial barriers in front of those who are most in need of these services. 
The Government's twisted justification for these cutbacks is to put more money back into the pockets of the taxpayers. Yet the Government does not even practise what it preaches in this instance as it plans to increase its revenue gain from personal taxation by 17 per cent during this financial year. But, overlooking Government inconsistency as one often has to do when speaking about its policies, I shall use this opportunity to comment on the Government's line of reasoning with regard to Budget cutbacks on community services. Firstly, in many cases Government saving on community services is a false economy. More money in the taxpayers' pockets does not compensate for the loss of basic amenities which make for a secure and civilised life. These are amenities that only governments can provide such as adequate roads, railways, hospitals, schools, libraries universities, preschools, open spaces and a decent environment. More money in the pocket would not enable a family to buy any of these things but without these amenities a family's quality of life is drastically reduced. 
Secondly, prolonged government neglect of essential community services often involves more considerable and less obvious costs to the deprived individual and to the nation as a whole. 
For instance, the longer we postpone essential services such as sewerage, the greater the ultimate cost and disruption of providing them. The longer we delay the building of necessary hospitals and health centres, the greater the toll in sickness, rehabilitation and absenteeism. The longer it takes to get to work, the higher the cost in industrial production and human efficiency. The more deprived and backward our cities and towns, the greater the rates of crime and mental illness. All this neglect and impoverishment diminishes the nation's productivity, blunts its competitiveness as a trading nation and burdens its people with needless inconvenience and hardship far more drastically and far more expensively than industrial disputes. No government of any other affluent nation in the world would tolerate the waste of time, money and human resources dissipated by Australia's substandard services and public amenities. But here in Australia the Fraser Government is actively promoting the further debasement of our services and amenities. 
The brilliant alternative of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer to government provision of many of these services is for the private sector to provide some of them. This leads me to my third criticism of the Government's reasoning underlying its policy. Without adequate government intervention many essential community services will become the preserve of the wealthy. As a result of the two Lynch Budgets, pre-school funding which covers the payment of pre-school teachers' salaries has been progressively reduced from 75 per cent to 49 per cent. By next week this will mean that preschools will once again be restricted to those who can afford to pay the higher fees rather than be available to those who have greatest need of them. Next week pre-school fees are poised to rise to more than treble their present level. In the inner city area they will rise from $5 a week to more than $17 a week. This situation is deplorable but it is all part of a deliberate and twisted government policy. 
Education, aged persons' accommodation, social security pensions, benefits and programs, growth centres, community health services, migrant services, Aboriginal affairs, urban rehabilitation and housing are some of the vitally important areas of government responsibility which have also gone wanting in this Budget. The Australian is looking for some guidance. Aged persons' homes have been hard hit. In one word, this year's Budget is a disaster. On one hand Australians are being asked to accept savage cuts in services as the price they must pay to beat inflation and reduce unemployment while on the other hand the government is giving lavish concessions to big business in an all out bid to redistribute the nation's wealth from the poor to the already wealthy. The result is a Budget which is a recipe for higher inflation and unemployment. This, in turn, makes the sacrifices of Australians futile. The simple, selfish, ill-conceived message of this Budget is that relief for the poor, the sick and the uneducated is a luxury that the wealthy do not wish to afford. We are waiting for the next election. 
-This afternoon honourable members rightly spoke at length in praise of a great man who served this Parliament, the late Leslie Haylen, for his outstanding work inside and outside the Parliament. Tonight I would like to speak about another person who was buried today in Sydney,  Mrs Elizabeth  Healy, a great worker for the Australian Labor Party. She was 99 years of age and would have been 100 in June 1978. She was a member of the Labor Party for approximately 75 years and was known as Ma in the suburbs of Pyrmont and Ultimo. She was Treasurer of the Sydney Federal Electorate Council. She held all positions in the Council and was a delegate to State and Federal councils. She had lived in Pyrmont for 80 years and she died in the house in which she had lived for so long. She had six children. She lost her husband in 1937; yet she carried on her life for another 40 years, helped by her children. She lived with her daughter Allie for approximately 25 years. 
That is right, and the honourable member for Chifley knew her. She could be classed as the unsung hero of the little people. She helped many members of the Federal and State parliaments and of local councils. Some of the members she helped to elect to Parliament were Dan Minogue, a former member of the House of Representatives for West Sydney; Jim Cope, the former  Speaker  and member for Watson and Sydney; the late Eddie Ward, the former member for East Sydney; John Beasley, the former member for West Sydney; and  Senator John  Armstrong from New South Wales. She told me a few months ago that she fell out with one person, Billy Hughes, because they differed in their views on conscription. She was almost put in gaol over it; but when she said to the policeman who grabbed her 'I know your father', he replied 'Will you leave quietly?' and she was not put in gaol. 
She helped many State members of the Party such as Pat Hills, the former Lord Mayor and now the State member for Phillip; Albert Sloss, the member for King; former Lord Mayor Harry Jensen; former Lord Mayor John Armstrong; and former Lord Mayor Ernie O'Dea. It is difficult to believe that this great woman, who was 99 years of age, did such great things in the area in which she lived. There was a park named after her, the Elizabeth Healy Reserve, opposite the Dunkirk Hotel which belonged to the Armstrongs. They used to call John Armstrong 'the golden barman' because he always had a few dollars and he went pretty well in the Labor Party.  Her  name was made during the time from the early 1900s through the Depression to the Second World War. She used to go around helping the little people, mostly the families and the children in the area. When I talk to people about Ma Healy they tell me that if she had food or clothing she would share it and that they miss today the little gestures of pure socialism. She not only spoke about those things but also did them. 
She practised it well too. I must thank the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  tonight. Since I became a member of this House I have tried to get domiciliary nursing care for  Mrs Healy.  I was pleased this year that the Minister agreed, after checking with the health authorities, that, because  Mrs Healy  was 98 years of age and her daughter was helping her, and because the nursing sister was visiting only once a week and could not visit twice because  Mrs Healy  was so well even at 98 years of age, she should receive $2 a day for domiciliary nursing care. She received this small benefit until she passed away last Saturday. I am pleased to say that  Mrs Healy  did not have to go to a nursing home but was looked after by her daughter. She was a great woman. Last Friday night she had a bet on the trots and afterwards said to her daughter: 'How did it go?'  Her  daughter replied Not too well; it lost'.  Mrs Healy  then asked: 'Do you think it was a goer?' She was a great woman and a great member of the Labor Party. She, like many other women throughout Australia, because of her unselfish work must have a place in heaven where we know she will rest in peace. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and endorsed by members of this side of the House. Government supporters are confused and are showing signs of strain. The people of Australia will make their decision in due course. The uranium issue is emerging as one of the most important world-wide issues of this century, and so it deserves to be since its potential hazards threaten the lives not only of everyone living in the world today but also of all future generations for the next 500,000 years. Overseas, the uranium issue has been hotly debated for over a decade and continues to gather momentum as more and more people join in the debate. Yet the issue is no closer to reaching consensus agreement than it was 10 years ago. 
Here in Australia only recently has the average Australian begun to think seriously about the benefit and the costs of the use of nuclear energy and is obviously still a long way from being able to make an informed decision about it. Yet the Fraser Government has already committed Australia to supporting actively the spread of nuclear power throughout the world. This is what I believe to be the central issue under debate today- the fact that the Fraser Government has made a decision, an immensely long term decision about Australia's future and to a large extent the world 's future, without giving the Australian people any opportunity to debate the issue carefully and to make up their own minds. 
With an issue as important as the mining and export of uranium I believe it is imperative that the Australian people be given a chance to know the full facts of uranium usage, to be given time to consider these facts and eventually to be given an opportunity to decide what course Australia should take in the future. In fact this is exactly what the Fox Commission's first report recommended, namely, 'that there should be ample time for public consideration and debate' and that 'no decision be taken until a reasonable time has elapsed'. But, instead, what the Fraser Government has decided to do is to rush into a decision just three months after the publication of the second Fox report and thereby to sacrifice the democratic rights of the Australian people on this vitally important issue. 
Worse than this, since making its notorious decision to give the green light to uranium mining and export, the Government has proceeded to cloud the uranium issue with irrelevant issues such as 'law and order' or 'who is governing the country, the unions or the Government?' The Government is actively provoking demonstrators and unions in the hope that outright conflict will take place so that public attention will be taken away from the real issue, namely, whether or not the Australian people should be given a say in the decision about the rnining and export of uranium. Demonstrators and unions are not the evil trouble makers that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would have people believe. The Australian Council of Trade Unions, representing nearly 2 million Australian workers, and the demonstrators, representing a cross section of Australia's population, are just concerned bodies of people desperately trying to protect a basic Australian principle which is seriously at risk at the present moment. That principle is democracy. 
In 1975 the Prime Minister demonstrated the lengths to which he would go to get his own way. The truth and long standing principles and conventions which were cherished by most Australians were simply discarded by the Prime Minister when they did not suit him. That applies now. The Prime Minister and his Government are so keen to please the multinational uranium producers that they are not willing to allow the Australian people the chance to exercise their democratic rights to decide on the future of uranium mining, because of the risk of the Australian people deciding on a moratorium. The Prime Minister might like to think he is a dictator and he might like to say and do whatever he likes but the Australian Labor Party and all thinking people throughout Australia will be doing everything in their power to make the Prime Minister think again. 
The Australian Labor Party position on the mining and export of uranium is a very reasonable one. At the biennial national conference in Perth in July this year the Australian Labor Parry decided on an indefinite moratorium until the problems associated with the nuclear industry are solved. It was decided that an effective moratorium was a necessary pre-condition to the Fox Commission's recommendation for a widespread national debate on the uranium issue to be carried out. After all, it makes sense that a public debate after commitments have been made is completely useless. But that is what the Government wants us to do. It wants this House to debate the pros and cons of a decision that has already been made, whilst suppressing full and free public debate altogether. Obviously the Government made its decision so hastily, before any reasonable debate could take place, because it had something to hide. 
My belief is that the Government's account of uranium usage is a vast distortion of the true facts about nuclear power. The Government's stance on uranium is the same as that of the prouranium lobby and in particular the Uranium Producers' Forum. If all the claims that the Government makes are true, why is it that the Uranium Producers' Forum has laid out vast amounts of money in paid propaganda? If all is rosy with uranium, why pay out all that money to convince the Australian people of its worth? If there is nothing wrong with uranium, why is the anti-uranium lobby, which is without the benefit of expensive advertising, so strong? 
The nuclear industry claims that most of the opposition to the spread of nuclear power stems from an emotional, stupid reaction- some sort of mindless fear of growth and technology. The industry, the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  would have people believe that the anti-uranium lobby consists of nothing but young revolutionaries who are badly misinformed about the true facts of nuclear power. Nothing could be further from the truth. The anti-nuclear movement has always been able to call upon some of the best nuclear brains around, partly because much of the opposition to nuclear power has arisen from within the industry, from scientists and engineers who knew exactly the implications of what they were doing and the weaknesses of the machines which they were designing and building. Any person who doubts the quality of the opposition to nuclear power in Australia should read the transcript of the Ranger uranium inquiry. The standard of the evidence produced by those against mining is equal or superior to that produced by the other side, despite the massive difference in resources available to the two classes of witnesses. 
In the remainder of the time allotted to me, I would like to give a brief account of the true state of affairs of nuclear power, not the coloured version that the Fraser Government has so far given the Australian people. In this account I will be very careful not to overstate my case because this is something that is definitely not needed at the moment. Already too many lies and distortions have entered into the uranium debate, and what the Australian people need most of all are facts so that they can weigh them up and make an informed decision on uranium. 
From all appearances, it is very unlikely that nuclear power will ever be of any real significance in the world energy picture. 
-From all appearances, it is very unlikely that nuclear power will ever be of any real significance in the world energy picture. At present nuclear power stations provide a little over one per cent of the world's statistically recorded energy consumption. If all the energy that goes unrecorded, particularly in the poorer countries, were added to energy consumption statistics, nuclear energy would be even less significant. Even if the most aggressive proposals for the development of nuclear energy come true, nuclear energy will provide about only 5 per cent of the world's energy by the year 2000. By that time presently known and inferred reserves of uranium will be bordering on exhaustion. Nuclear energy will be on the way out at the same time as oil, having provided only a tiny fraction of our energy needs, and absorbed an immensely unequal proportion of valuable capital. 
Australia has 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the known reserves of the Western world 's uranium supplies. The uranium miners in this country have predicted a bonanza in profits and export earnings for their mines. They simple-mindedly point to the gross value of their resources- some 20 billion worth at today's prices. What they overlook is that this resource is not worth a cent without a market and a market may not be there. All the predictions for uranium demand are based on an exponential increase in the world wide population of reactors. This is not happening. The number of operating reactors has remained constant for the last year, while the number of orders for new reactors is steadily dropping. In West Germany, France, Sweden, Switzerland, the United States of America and Japan, strong and increasing opposition to nuclear power has combined with economic difficulties to cause severe cutbacks in nuclear construction programs. The nuclear power programs of France and West Germany have almost ground to a halt while in Holland anti-nuclear demonstrations have been growing rapidly. Spain is now examining hydro-electric alternatives to nuclear power while Norway has cancelled its projected nuclear power program altogether. In the United States of America orders for nuclear reactors have dropped from 30 reactors to two in the last few years, and in Japan the cutback is of the order of 50 per cent because of problems with the inefficiency of nuclear power generation. 
One is then led to ask- where is this world that is desperately in need of our uranium? From the evidence it appears that the uranium producers are in a hurry to mine and export our uranium before the market disappears. In regard to dangers from the use of nuclear power, the work of the Fox Commission in Australia and the Flowers Commission in Britain has made it clear that the dangers of world trade in plutonium are so great that we should avoid it, if at all possible. 
Both reports from these two commissions confirm that plutonium is a very dangerous material. They confirm that it is possible for people to gain possession of plutonium illegally. They confirm that it is possible for a small group of people with some nuclear and metal working knowledge to make a bomb if they have sufficient plutonium. They confirm that the international treaties designed to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons are very weak. They confirm that the civilian nuclear power industry has contributed to the spread of weapons. They confirm that the industry has been lax in its guarding of the effects of radiation on workers. They confirm that there have been accidents in reactors and nuclear power plants and that these have been potentially very serious. These are all things which those opposed to nuclear power see as reasons for discontinuing it. 
In regard to the potential benefit of nuclear power to the poorer countries, it appears that because of the immensely capital intensive and centralised nature of nuclear energy this source of energy will be irrelevant to the real needs of poorer countries. How could a developing country with a population of SO million people afford the $17 billion needed to produce and distribute nuclear-generated energy to its people? The simple answer is that there is no way. Nuclear energy is only a temporary source of power at best. It is of no use to poor nations and of very limited use to rich ones. Instead what is urgently needed in the world is a rational approach to energy conservation and proper investment in solar research. Conservation of energy must be the cornerstone of any sane energy policy since it is the quickest and the cheapest way of obtaining more energy. Australia has the potential for being a world leader in solar research but the present Government is apparently not interested in this judged by the level of funding for solar research programs in the last Budget. 
The Government must be made more aware of the benefits of solar energy. Not only does it work but also it is pollution free and does not change the total heat balance in the environment. Solar energy is not a dream of the future, it is with us now. It is the only viable, long term energy source we have. These are the facts about nuclear energy and its alternatives and not the one-sided half truths that the Fraser Government has been telling the Australian people. These facts must be made known and the Australian people must be given the chance to decide for themselves the future of Australia's uranium reserves. I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 26 April 1977: 
1 ) Is solar energy research in Australia falling behind its potential because of shortage of funding; if so, what is the Government's attitude to this. 
What sum has the Government directed towards solar energy research in Australia since its election to office in 1975. 
How many universities in each State are researching solar energy. 
What financial assistance has the Commonwealth Government given to these universities for this research. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) How many unemployed persons are registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service offices in the electoral division of Sydney, and what percentage of the workforce does this represent. 
Of the persons referred to in part ( 1 ), how many are (a) aged (i) under 21 years, (ii) between 22 and 45 years, and (iii) between 46 and 65 years, (b) migrants, (c) male, (d) female, (e) skilled, (0 unskilled, (g) married and (h) single. 
What Government schemes have been established or are planned to assist the particular type of unemployment existing in the inner city of Sydney. 
I remind the House that the amendment moved by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  to the motion for the second reading of the States Grants (Capital Assistance) Bill 1977 reads: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: whilst not opposing the second reading of the Bill, the House is of the opinion that: 
it reduces in real terms the funds available to the States, 
it increases the States 'borrowing costs, 
it forces the States to reduce the services they provide and/or to impose additional taxes and charges, and 
d ) it leads to increased unemployment '. 
I thank the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  for allowing me time to answer some of the criticism that was directed at the New South Wales State Government by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in regard to local government in the area of the city of Sydney- Leichhardt, Marrickville, South Sydney and Botany. Tonight the honourable member for Mackellar stated that the funds given to the New South Wales State Government by the Federal Government had been mislaid by that Government. In other words, the New South Wales State Government had not used the funds provided under the Act. I was very disgusted when the honourable member stated that the New South Wales State Government would rather use money on cars than on people. In his address to this House he said that the area of Glebe should be cut up. I was incensed at what he said because that is where I live. Even before it came to office, the Labor Party in New South Wales fought to stop the north-west expressway. The honourable member for Mackellar lives on the other side of Sydney Harbour. Certainly, he is in the twilight of his life. At his age I do not think he would drive a car. He has his opinions. He is entitled to them. I hope he is fit to drive a car. 
I do not know his age. I know that he is in the twilight of his life in the Liberal Party. Why I am upset is that he is interfering with the electorate of Sydney. There are three expressways- the north-western, the western and the south expressway that is going through Botany. The honourable member said: Knock all the houses down. Cars before people'. Tonight he said that the State Government was squandering the funds. On Saturday there will be an election in the municipality of Warringah. The honourable member said that the Liberal Party would give its preferences to the independents rather than to the Labor Party. These proceedings are still being broadcast. I hope that people are still listening.  Senator Sibraa  who comes from New South Wales told me a couple of days ago that he was working hard in the area to help the people to look after the Warringah area. He told me that there is a story going about the area to the effect that the honourable member for Wakehurst,  Mr Viney,  and the honourable member for Pittwater,  Mr Webster,  have made arrangements with the independents to try to make local government in that area a bit reasonable. Out of the 12 aldermen there could be eight independent Liberals and four Labor men. 
That is the point I am trying to explain to the House. There is a split. This matter was discussed tonight and I was a little upset about it. I am pleased to be able to assure the House and the people of Australia that there will again be a Labor majority on the Leichhardt Council and that the Labor Party will again have a majority on the South Sydney Council. 
Les Rodwell is a very nice person. He is a good alderman. He is a local boy. The Marrickville Council and the Botany Council will be controlled by Labor. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! I think that the honourable member for Sydney has transgressed as much of the Standing Orders as the honourable member for Mackellar. I suggest that he gets back to the Bill which is before the House. 
I appreciate your lenience.  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I was a little bit upset. Under this Bill money is to be allotted to the New South Wales Government. The honourable member for Mackellar has been a member of this place for a long time. I notice that he is now in the House again. I would like him to tell me whether he has a licence to drive a car. How can a person agree that cars should come before people? I hope that he will take a point of order against me and say that I am wrong. If he does not do so it means that he is embarrassed. I am pleased to be able to say that the honourable member has a few dollars. He saved his money over the years. He has a great history of saving his money, 
I did not say that. I would not say that. 
Again I appreciate your tolerance,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I thank the honourable member for Hughes for allowing me to step into his place on the list of speakers tonight. If you agree that I have said what should be said I shall allow the next  speaker  to carry on. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 18 August 1977: 
1 ) What public works projects are due to commence in the electoral division of Sydney in 1 978. 
What are (a) the locations, (b) the expected costs and (c) the expected completion dates of these projects. 
Tonight I should like to discuss the local government elections in New South Wales and the great win of the Labor Party. I am very pleased that the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is in the chamber tonight. Last Thursday night I explained to him that there would be a great sweeping change in New South Wales. I am pleased to say that what I stated on Thursday night has come true in South Sydney, Leichhardt, Botany, Marrickville - 
-And Fairfield. Not being parochial I refer also to Broken Hill. My friend the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  who sits next to me in the House, has done a great job in the Barrier Council. He has looked after the little people. The vote there was eight to four. Those four would not have been elected but for proportional representation. The vote would otherwise have been 12 nil. I congratulate the honourable member for Darting. In Sydney representation for the last 3 years has been 17 from the Civic Reform Association, the majority of whom are in the Liberal Party, and three from the Labor Party. The Civic Reform Association has the Liberal Party machine behind it. It has been estimated that the Association spent $100,000 on the local government election campaign. The vote looks like being eight to seven. 
We know that they will get it back for services rendered. 
With a bit of profit. Previously the Civic Reform Association had 17 members, and the Labor Party three. Now the Civic Reform Association has eight members and the Labor Party has seven. The Labor Party has done a remarkable job. I congratulate Alderman Doug Sutherland, the leader of the Labor team in Sydney. He has done a remarkable job. I did not refer to the result of the South Australian election because I did not want to rub it in so heavily. The swing in my electorate has been very heavy- 100 per cent and 200 per cent. I was trying to be parochial. I think other speakers will refer to the result of the South Australian election. 
I am pleased that members in my area worked so solidly. There have been some whispers in the alleyways and in Kings Hall that there could be an election on 10 December. I do not believe it at this stage. I missed seeing the grand final. I listened to it on a little transistor while I was going around the electorate with my friends, telling them that we had to be ready for an early election. They said: 'We are ready now, after that great win in New South Wales, after the win in South Australia and after the wins in the local government elections in New South Wales. Les, we are sorry that you missed the grand final. I did not know that the teams would have to play 10 minutes extra time each way or that there would be a replay next Saturday. 
I congratulate members of the Australian Labor Party team. I think they have done a remarkable job. I congratulate Neville Wran because when I went around the area that day and saw the people voting, the big issue was unemployment. Another big issue was support for Neville Wran, the Premier of New South Wales. I hope the honourable member for Mackellar gives us some idea of what is going on in his area. He is  Mr Liberal  in the area. He said that the people should vote Liberal in the election. I hope he follows me and tells me why the electorate did not vote Liberal. There could be a reason. The lights might be turning off. There might be a change coming, with the Australian Labor Party winning in the area. 
I have an important matter to discuss tonight but I will answer the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel).  I was very displeased at the way the honourable member for Evans attacked Ministers in the New South Wales Government. After the Civic Reform Party was formed the numbers in the City Council were 17 to three. There had to be a change but the honourable member for Evans seems to think that he knows more than I do about this matter. What he said was petty. He knows that he is a oncer. I am a bit disgusted that he says these things so seriously. 
Tonight I wish to discuss an issue of importance in Sydney; that is, kindergartens. There are 12 kindergartens in the electorate of Sydney and approximately 520 kindergartens are controlled by the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales. There are many more run by religious and private organisations. Correspondence on the matter of inadequate pre-school funding was sent to the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in August and September. I have received an acknowledgement but no answer.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  copies of correspondence and telegrams to the Minister for Social Security and a table of statistics relating to the allocation of funds to pre-schools in Australia. I have shown these documents to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  who is at the table. 

 The documents read as follows- 15 August 1977 

 Senator The Honourable M. G. M. Guilfoyle Minister for Social Security, The Senate, Parliament House, Canberra, ACT 2600 
I thank honourable members. In the short time that is allotted to me, I point out that whilst $10m was allocated in 1976-77, $8m has been allocated in this year's Budget, a reduction of $2m. As I said earlier, there are 12 kindergartens in Sydney controlled by the Kindergartens Union of New South Wales. One newspaper report was headed 'Fee rise is too much, says mums'. The Ellen Desailey kindergarten at Glebe, which cost $200,000, is to be opened in approximately three weeks' time. But is is doubtful whether many children will be able to attend this school because the rates in New South Wales have risen from approximately $1.50 a day to $5 a day. Mothers cannot afford to pay that amount of money to send menchildren to kindergartens. 
I have discussed this matter with women who send their children to the kindergarten at Erskineville, to the Golden Fleece kindergarten at Chippendale, to the James Cahill kindergarten and to the Pyrmont-Ultimo kindergarten. As late as last Saturday I spoke to certain women, some with three or four children each. They were upset because they will have to pay approximately $20 a week out of their wages. We are reaching the stage in New South Wales where only the rich will be able to send their children to kindergarten and the battlers and the workers will not be able to afford to do so. People on the north side of the harbour can afford to pay $25 a week but the battlers in my electorate of Sydney will not be able to afford this charge. 
It appears that we have a two-class system in respect of pre-school education- one for the rich and one for the poor or the battlers. People in the electorate of Sydney must pay taxes as anyone else does. The Minister for Social Security, who is a woman and is sympathetic said that fees would not be raised. However, we find that the allotment for pre-schools in this year's Budget is 45 per cent of teachers' salaries although the allotment in the 1976-77 Budget was 75 per cent. Therefore the Government will not make the same contribution this financial year. The Government will regret its decision because preschool education is an issue in my electorate equal to unemployment. As I said to women last Saturday: 'All you have to do is to take your child into a kindergarten and sit in'. They have agreed to do so. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 1 8 August 1 977: 
1 ) What public works projects have commenced in the electoral division of Sydney in 1976-77. 
What are (a) the locations, (b) the expected costs and (c) the expected completion dates of these projects. 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is it a fact that, without reference to interested local manufacturers of packaging materials, the Government has removed the duty differential between certain imported spirits in bulk and in bottles? Were the effects on unemployment in the glass and fibre packaging industries taken into account before making this decision? Does this decision mean that approximately 1,000 employees in New South Wales alone are faced with unemployment and that many firms in the glass and packaging industries will have surplus machinery which has been installed at great expense? 
Tonight I wish to speak about the Special Youth Employment Training Program or, as we know it, SYETP. Last month I issued a Press statement which I shall read. It received fairly good coverage in the Sydney metropolitan Press. It stated: 
Budget Leaves 127,000 Young Jobless out in the Cold 
The Government's much publicised plan to extend the Special Youth Employment Training Program to include young people under the age of 25 will provide absolutely no consolation for the 127,000 unemployed youth who are currently outside the narrow guidelines of the program, and will in fact condemn the vast majority of the young to another year of bearing the major burden of unemployment . . . The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  takes great delight in praising the SYETP program for having assisted 15,000 young people during the last 10 months. However, the Munster cynically neglects to mention that 240,000 young people were unemployed during 1976 and that only a mere 6 per cent of these gained any benefit from the program. 
 Despite what the Government would have you believe, the facts are that youth unemployment has long reached the critical point and is rapidly deteriorating even further, thanks to sustained Government indifference and inaction In February 1977, about 55 per cent of the unemployed were under 24 and nearly four out of every ten of unemployed were under 20. At the same time, the unemployment rate for young people was more than four times the rate for those aged 20 and more than this, since 1961 youth unemployment has increased from 18.5 per cent to nearly 40 per cent, while over the same period, the group, as a percentage of the work force, has remained stable at 1 2 per cent.  . . Like so much else that was contained in the Budget, the proposed extension of the special youth employment training program is a fraud. With youth unemployment, fuelled by the Budget, likely to be in excess of 1 70,000 by January next year, the proposed addition of 15,000 employment and training positions is scandalously inadequate. This is especially so when you take into account that funds for apprenticeship training under the 'CRAFT' and NAAS' have been reduced by 9 per cent in real terms. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  and the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  have made statements in relation to the training of apprentices. I know that a non-indentured apprentice with more than a year's service was given notice on the same day as his employer applied for a subsidy under SYETP for a replacement employee for the apprentice whose service he was terminating. But let us look at the other side of the picture. The Special Youth Employment Training Program is designed to provide employment training and work experience for young people. The Department has advertised- I refer to the information sheet 'How to Claim'- that subsidies are paid on a monthly basis. Claim forms are supplied by the Commonwealth Employment Service and employers are requested to complete and to return the form to the Commonweatlh Employment Service at the end of each month's training. Payments under the scheme will be made on a monthly basis by the Department. What the Department does not say is that there is a delay of two and a half months to four months in payments, because of staff shortages. One of the purposes of the scheme is to give a monetary incentive to employers to provide employment and training for young people. 
If we can eliminate the cancer of unemployment, we are carrying out a service to the youth and the needy who are unemployed. Employers who are employing these Australians normally would not be in a position to afford to employ them. But the added attraction of the subsidy and the sense of employing a junior are greatly reduced. These young people are then able to obtain employment. In many cases the subsidy actually creates a position which normally does not exist. However, when taking on a person, some companies are acting in good faith in the belief that payment Will come through fairly promptly. Failing this they will have to bear the full cost of employment for several months. They expect to be reimbursed under this scheme but they have to wait two to four months for their money. The main point I am making tonight is that 18 firms in Sydney have to wait from two and a half to four months for finance. I ask the Minister tonight to make a full inquiry into the reorganisation of the SYETP as a matter of urgency and into the possibility of more staff for the Department. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 21 September 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports of the death, while under detention without trial, of a leader of the South African Black People's Convention. 
If so, is he able to say if the leader is the twentieth political prisoner to have died while imprisoned without trial in South Africa. 
Has he or the Government expressed Australia's concern to the South African Government over this tragic event as has been done by the Governments of the United States of America and the United Kingdom. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the views expressed in editorials in every major newspaper in the country that increasing speculation about a premature election is destroying the economic and political fabric of Australia? In accordance with his publicly expressed attitude of deploring such speculation, what steps have been taken to terminate it? In particular, nas he, as has been reported, sought the advice of the GovernorGeneral about an early election? Will he now act responsibly and end speculation about an early election? 
That is right. The way he conducted himself tonight proves that he is the most arrogant man in the House. I put that on record. Tonight I intend to discuss the Glebe and Woolloomooloo projects. I intended to discuss this matter today before I was gagged. The Labor Government initiated the historic Glebe Estate and the Woolloomooloo project, two vitally important contributions to urban rehabilitation. The Labor Government made real efforts to counter the adverse trends that were operating in the inner city. It recognised the need for the Government to protect local residents while revitalising areas of the inner city. It was very conscious of not rating above the level of ability of local people to pay. The Labor Government was worried about people. The project in question is the Glebe project in my electorate of Sydney. In 1974 the project opened, the land having been acquired by the Federal Labor Government from the Church. Approximately 3,200 people, principally comprising pensioners, students and children, made up the population there. There were 12 staff members under the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  whose work on the Glebe and Woolloomooloo projects was respected. 
The advisory committee has been elected annually from 1974 onwards and has been doing a remarkable job. I worked with the management on the Glebe project, with the project people and with the Minister, but as recently as yesterday I inspected some of the houses in Arundel Street and in those houses found pensioners and other people who had been waiting approximately 18 months for their houses to be repaired. One pensioner, who was living alone, had been waiting for four months, during which time she had had no toilet facilities. 
Four months. She had a dog that was almost blind and she was using an outside tap. There were a few palings off the fence and the toilet, an old cottage pan type, was disused and not clean, but the lady did not want to complain because she was afraid she might lose the tenancy. I have had complaints from the residents advisory committee and other people in Arundel Street and find that expenditure has dropped by approximately 20 per cent in the last 12 months and 60 per cent in the last two years although these appalling conditions are present. 
In Wentworth Park Road there are semidetached houses which for almost seven months have been awaiting repair by the Government's sub-contractors. Something should be done to pull out the sub-contractors and give the work to the Commonwealth Department of Construction. We should help the unemployment situation by sacking the sub-contractors and bringing in day labour, because the subcontractors are not doing their job. There are unemployed plumbers, electricians, carpenters and apprentices who need work. The Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  said earlier that he wants apprentices and tradesmen on the job. We can show to the people of Australia t that we mean it and, at the same time, the Government can get back $60 a week. We can show an example on this project by putting tradesmen to work while making the residents a great deal happier. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security say whether the Director-General of Social Services wrote to all State Directors of Social Services on 26 October 1977 about the payment of unemployment benefit in arrears? Did this letter suggest continuing delay in the payment of benefit to unemployed persons because the timing of administrative arrangements is so critical? Did the Director-General go so far as to suggest that income statements from the Commonwealth Employment Service should be collected daily by car or verbally over the telephone in order to minimise delay in the processing of claims? Because of this administrative nightmare, will many unemployed persons be denied income support to which they are entitled? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Are pre-schools in New South Wales poised to increase fees by more than 200 per cent because of the Government's inadequate funding for pre-schools. 
If so, will pre-schools in the inner city area of Sydney face fee rises from $5 to about $17 a week from 12 September 1977 onwards which will force most inner city children away from the pre-schools, because their parents just cannot afford to pay the fees. 
Will the likely result of these fee rises be either the replacement of inner city children by children of wealthier parents or the closure of many of the pre-schools. 
Is the Minister pursuing a course which will mean that pre-schools will once again become restricted to those who can afford them rather than being made available to those who need them; if not, what is the Minister prepared to do about the situation. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the report which appeared in this morning's  Age  correct, that  Sir Samuel  Burstan, a member of the Reserve Bank board and a close associate of the Prime Minister, has written to the Treasurer seeking devaluation of the Australian dollar by at least 10 per cent? Has  Sir Samuel  also criticised the Government's proposal to continue heavy overseas borrowings? If the report is correct, how can the Government claim, in the GovernorGeneral's Speech, 'the more flexible regime for managing the exchange rate has already proved its worth'? 
This morning I read an article in the Australian headed: 'Sinclair attacks unions over funds for Labor' and an article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  headed: 'Scrutiny of work right increasing'. The main issue I wish to deal with tonight concerns a media release by the Department of Primary Industry dated Tuesday, 28 February 1978 dealing with an address by the Right Honourable Ian Sinclair, Minister for Primary Industry, to the Constitutional Association of Australia in Sydney yesterday. It deals with the right to be a non-unionist worker. On page 4 of it the Minister for Primary Industry and  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party had the impertinence to state: 
While there is no denying the benefits of awards which recognise skills attained through apprenticeships, trade training or other academic qualifications, the identity of an employee with his employer would seem to me more important than his identity with his fellow tradesmen. 
In other words if motivation in industry is to be achieved, and I suspect productivity enhanced, it is critical that an employee sees himself first as working to produce particular goods for the company rather than only as a member of a particular trade. 
When I read that I thought that my eyes were deceiving me. The Minister was chastised about six months ago when he started to interfere with the trade union movement on the issue of Pommy shop stewards or English shop stewards. He had to back-peddle on that issue because he was embarrassed by it. Yet yesterday he said that what we should do now is kick the trade union movement, and kick the fellow worker. He is a kind of silvertail. I do not think he has ever been in a trade union movement. What employer would be game not to be a member of an employer organisation? Why should the trade union movement not subscribe to the Australian Labor Party? Why does the Government not agree to our proposals for the details of the donations to political parties to be made public? On 27 February 1978 the Minister made a speech at a tribute dinner for a good friend of ours, Bob King, on the weakening of the political voice of the country areas. He said that the voice of the National Country Party of Australia is weakening under the present political system. I think the Country Party should wake up to the fact that it is being conned by the Liberal Party of Australia, particularly by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser). 
We all know it is losing votes. Its members have been elected here on 10 per cent of the votes cast in Australia. It polled an almost similar number of votes as the Australian Democrats. I am upset by this statement of the Minister, as I think anyone who has a chance to read it will be. The Minister has never been in a trade union movement and would not know what the trade union movement was about, yet he attacks the trade union movement about its organising. From where did the Australian workers get the 40-hour week, long service leave and the conditions that they receive? From where did they get their minimum rates? Does the Minister think they got them just because people thought that it was right for them to receive these benefits? How have they got these conditions that they have in Australia? Through hard work by the trade union movement. Yet we have a person who has never been in a trade union movement bashing and kicking them. He has a reputation for doing this all the time. He has even sacrificed certain people in this area in the last couple of weeks. He is entitled to do that. 
I will not say his name. The honourable member for Chifley could be right but I will not buy into the matter because it is embarrassing. The Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  was humble in saying today that we should stick together, that Australia is a big place in which to live, that we should not hate, and that we should not have bitterness. But what does his  deputy  do? He says: 'Give the trade unions a good kick'. The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party is starting trouble again. I think his Leader should have some discussions with him and tell him what are the facts of life. Either the Leader of the National Country Party is a hypocrite for saying what he said in the debate today concerning the former Governor-General or he has no say with his  deputy. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I thank the House. In the short time remaining to me I shall make a few comments on the Government's neglect of solar research funding. The Federal Government is spending 15 times as much money on atomic energy research as it is on solar research. In this year's Budget $22 m was allocated to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission for research into nuclear energy, while a trifling $1.5m was provided for solar energy research. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I must say at the beginning that, although I often disagree with the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr),  I agree with him that family life is essential for the fabric of the Australian people.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will you convey my congratulations to the  Speaker  on his re-election to the office of  Speaker  in the Thirty-first Parliament. Will you convey also my congratulations to the honourable member for Wide Bay  (Mr Millar)  on his election as  Deputy Speaker  and  Chairman  of Committees. I would be remiss if I did not say at the outset that  Mr Millar  and I were members of the Public Works Committee. It is a good Committee and the honourable member for Wide Bay was a very conscientious worker on that Committee. I congratulate also the  Deputy Speaker  in the last Parliament, the honourable member for Lyne,  Mr Lucock,  who held that position for 1 8 years. Like many of my colleagues, I was disappointed when he was defeated in that position. He was very considerate to me as a new member of the Thirtieth Parliament, along with other new members. He gave us the opportunity to learn the ropes, as the saying goes, and to put our case across. I ask you to convey my sentiments to the honourable member for Lyne. 
I wish to congratulate newly elected members of the Australian Labor Party on their maiden speeches. I refer to the honourable members for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and my friend from Melbourne Ports  (Mr Holding).  I also congratulate newly elected Government supporters to the Thirty-first Parliament. I wish them success and hope they have a short stay. I thank the electors of Sydney for the confidence they have shown in electing me to represent them as a member of the Australian Labor Party. Members of the Australian Labor Party worked hard for me in the last election. I thank my wife and family for all the help they have given me. Election time is the only time my wife and I come close to divorce. I have experi  enced two  elections in  two  years but I  mil  pleased to say, on the subject that the honourable member for Swan mentioned, that everything is right at home and I have no worries about divorce. 
I think it might be worthwhile to describe the new electorate of Sydney which takes in many areas. It is a great place and includes the areas of Annandale, Balmain, Camdenville, Camperdown, Darlington, Darling Harbour, Dulwich Hill/Lewisham, Enmore, Erskineville, Forest Lodge, Glebe, Glebe North, Golden Grove, King, which is Woolloomooloo, Leichhardt, 
Lilyfield, Livingstone, Marrickville East, Newtown East, Newtown, Kingston, Petersham, Phillip, Pyrmont, Pyrmont Denison, Redfern West, Rozelle, Rozelle East and Stanmore. They are branches of the Labor Party in my electorate. I am pleased to say that there are approximately 1,700 members of the Australian Labor Party in those branches. More people are joining every month. It is pleasing to see that it is a thriving Labor area. 
The former electorate of Sydney included the areas of Rosebery, Beaconsfield, Erskineville, Redfern, Waterloo, Surry Hills, Paddington and East Sydney. I thank the people in those areas who supported me prior to the last election and who supported the Australian Labor Party at the last election. Those areas have gone to a very good member, the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Lionel  Bowen. He gained the majority of my old seat which makes the area a very good Labor seat. Both the seats are in the top bracket of safe Labor seats. 
I turn now to the Governor-General's Speech. I disagree with what that Speech claimed had been achieved by the Fraser Government in the last two years. When referring to the Government's priorities, the Governor-General said these included:  . . . To build on the progress we have made in the last two years, defeat inflation and unemployment, and restore full economic health to our economy. 
The Governor-General said also: 
My Government rejects the notion that there can be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. It will continue to give the highest priority to reducing inflation, for only in this way can there be a sustained reduction in unemployment. 
I do not say that I agree with those comments. I am merely quoting them. He continued: 
My Government will continue to place a high priority on unemployment and training schemes, particularly those which increase young people's skill, and enable them to take job opportunities as they arise. 
Further, he said: 
A wider spirit of participation and employee involvement in the work force will be encouraged so that employees and employers can co-operate to improve industrial safety, working conditions, job satisfaction and productivity. 
I will deal with that point now. Last night I spoke on the adjournment debate about the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and his idea of kicking the trade union movement. Obviously, he has not read the Governor-General's Speech. I do not know why he is in favour of kicking the trade union movement. How much more can it take before it starts to kick back? The time is coming when it will kick back. At the moment the trade union movement in Australia is exercising a great deal of restraint. The  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party continues to make statements of the kind that I mentioned during the adjournment debate last night. My comments are in yesterday's  Hansard  at page 260. I hope that the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party heeds my words because yesterday his Leader, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  said apologetically that Australia is a good country, a lovely country, and that we must work together. How can people do that when they are continually kicked? Every time they try to get up someone stands on their heads and kicks them again. I can see the day coming when they will say: 'Righto! It is on! ' Those comments lead into the matters on which I intend to speak. 
The main issue is the decision of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission on wage indexation. The decision was brought down yesterday by  Sir John  Moore. Like my colleagues on this side of the House, I was appalled by that decision. The vagueness of the decision places future trade union support of the Commission on the question of wage indexation in jeopardy. The decision marks another fall in the living standards of wage and salary earners. What choice does the union movement have other than to go outside the boundaries of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and enter the jungle of collective bargaining? It appears very much that this is what it will have to do. It will have to start from scratch. What it receives will have to represent wage justice. It is a terrible way to be forced to act considering the state of the country, but the way trade union feeling is now, I can see a lot of industrial trouble ahead. The only reason why unions are keeping fairly quiet about this matter is because they are not going too well financially. But the day of action is coming. How much can they accept without kicking back? 
The wage decision gives an increase of 1.5 per cent for people receiving weekly wages below $170 per week. Other employees will receive approximately $2.60 a week. The minimum wage of $120 a week has been increased by $ 1 .80 per week. When will the ordinary men and women in this country receive their just rewards? How can the family man and the working woman, majority of Australians, live under these conditions? The time must come when they will say that they will not accept this situation any more. 
I refer to the speech on 22 February by the Treasurer,  Mr Howard,  which appears at page 47 of  Hansard.  The Treasurer said: 
The people who reap the real benefits of these tax reductions. I believe, are those to be found in the middle income brackets. No longer does a person who earns $ 10,000 a year and who wishes by way of overtime or extra effort to increase that income jump into a much higher tax bracket by passing the $ 12,500 a year mark. In fact, the standard rate of taxation of 32c in the dollar remains constant until a person reaches an income of $16,000 a year. I think one of the very beneficial aspects of the taxation revisions which the Government has introduced is the extent to which, in that particular area, there will be greater incentive and greater encouragement for people to earn a higher income and to work harder. 
What does the Treasurer understand about people receiving overtime? In this period of high unemployment, how many people would receive more than $16,000 a year? Today the average person receives $170 a week and up to $260 a week. The Treasurer's income is much more than $16,000 a year. This point was very ably summed up earlier in the debate by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  when he said: . . . Labor Party members, having suffered an overwhelming defeat at the election, would be probably a little bent and not looking forward to the debates which will take place in the Parliament. I make one point quite clear on behalf of the Labor Party and honourable members on this side of the Parliament: Under no circumstances do we accept that the Government in spite of its majority, has a mandate to extend poverty, has a mandate to extend unemployment, has a mandate to extend family breakups, or has a mandate to promote greater drug dependence in the community. Those are some of the offshoots of high unemployment in this country. 
What we should worry about is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Treasurer discussing matters which are completely over their heads. The point is, as was made tonight by members on the Government side, that we have to settle down and work as a team. But for some reason or other we get no encouragement from the Treasurer, from the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations or from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who is the leader of the country. 
Another point I make concerns the Government's record on immigration. This was ably discussed today. It affects Sydney's ethnic communities. There are people of different nationalities in the suburbs of Sydney and education is a big issue. Special teachers who can speak different languages and who can help migrant children are urgently needed. I am pleased that the New South Wales Government is sending teachers from the Australian Teachers Federation overseas on a grant. They will be able to gain a first-hand knowledge of the languages spoken by our migrant school children. I hope that the Federal Government will work with the New South Wales Government in trying to implement this scheme. The ethnic communities are made up of Italians in Balmain; Greeks, South Americans, Yugoslavs, Turks and Macedonians in Camperdown: Lebanese, Arabs and Italians in Rozelle; Italians and Lebanese in Annandale; Greeks, Italians, Lebanese and Yugoslavs in Leichhardt; Italians in Lilyfield; Greeks and Italians in Lewisham; Turks, Macedonians, Yugoslavs and Greeks in Newtown; Greeks in Petersham and Italians, Greeks and Portuguese in Stanmore. This is why I say it is essential that we try to get teachers who speak the languages of these people to give some encouragement to the youth of the county, a big majority of whom come from an ethnic background. 
In respect of all federal programs affecting Australia's migrant community the Government must reverse the policies of neglect which have been in force since it came to office. In particular, new and determined initiatives are urgently needed in migrant education, employment opportunities and job training, following two years of heavy cutbacks in government spending. Since the Labor Government's last Budget in 1975, government finance for migrant education has been cut in real terms by 60 per cent. The Labor Government allocated $2 1.4m in 1975 while the last Lynch Budget provided only $ 10.4m. The effect of this immoral attitude is reflected in the educational and social deprivation of significant numbers of migrant families who are brought to this country and then virtually abandoned. Their only role, so far as the present Government is concerned, seems to be to fill the dirtiest, least skilled and most menial jobs which are unwanted by native-born Australians. 
Migrant women especially work in many instances in appalling conditions in a work force  in  which they make up  a  full third of working  -..... -..... -j-------  -r - :~.....--- -*--------- o  women. They are employed predominantly in manufacturing industry as unskilled or semiskilled labour. A total of 45 per cent of Italian women and 56 per cent of Greek women in employment work as labourers, production or process workers. This compares with only 9.2 per cent of native-born Australian working women. In most cases, however, these women are locked into this situation by economic necessity which in turn imposes enormous stress on the life style of thousands of migrant families. In the work force as a whole statistics show that migrants, both men and women, are the first to be sacked in times of recession and suffer a higher rate of industrial accidents, mostly because of language difficulties. The Fraser Government's immigration policies acknowledge none of these depressing realities. 
Many speakers from the Government side and from the Opposition side have discussed the question of unemployment. I think it is a disease. It is something we have to try to rectify. If the Government or the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations were to try to find a way to cure this cancer, a way to employ the youth of our country, I would be willing to help as much as I could. I am sure that the Opposition, too, would help. I believe that this should be an issue for consideration by a committee- an issue of trying to help. We have now reached the stage where a dog fight is going on. The Prime Minister has this dogmatic idea that inflation has to be controlled before unemployment. 
Who said it? He said it. Every time he has discussed inflation and unemployment the Prime Minister has said that inflation has to be reduced before unemployment is rectified. 
The Prime Minister, every Minister and every supporter of the Government. 
I issue a challenge to the honourable member. We are willing to help if this is made a committee issue. Let there be a full inquiry. The Fraser Government's recent decision to direct all Department of Social Security investigators to concentrate on recipients of unemployment benefit is the latest of a series of contemptible measures to solve by deceit Australia's crippling unemployment problems. Since first gaining office just over two years ago, the Fraser Government has savagely cut expenditure on unemployment benefits mainly by restricting eligibility and has fiddled with unemployment statistics in order to make the unemployment level appear much smaller than it actually is. The Government has carried out an insidious campaign to defame the unemployed and to create public acceptance of high levels of unemployment. 
The major change in unemployment policy effected by the Government has been a revision of the work test resulting in benefits being denied to people who moved to areas where there was little prospect of employment; to people who made themselves unacceptable to employers by their appearance, attitude or dress; to people over 18 years of age who were not willing to move to areas where work was available; to people not possessing a birth certificate at least 3 years old; to people who were only willing to accept jobs of a certain kind; to skilled workers who had not found work within six weeks and who would not accept unskilled jobs, even though this involved a reduction in wages and status; to people who had been unemployed 'voluntarily' until a period of six weeks had elapsed; to school leavers until the next school year commenced and to those unemployed who failed to personally lodge their fortnightly income statements on time. In addition, in November last, the Government introduced the payment of unemployment benefits in arrears- a measure which meant that unemployed people had to wait up to six weeks after applying at the Commonwealth Employment Service office before the first payment arrived. As if all this has not been enough, we now find the Government cracking down even harder on the unemployed. 
There is so much to say in this regard. I have discussed tonight with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  the possibility of incorporating a document in  Hansard.  It is a six page document on unemployment. He did state that he would grant me leave to incorporate it. I seek leave to incorporate the document in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I am pleased that the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is in the House tonight to hear this most important case which I am about to put. The matter deals with a constituent in my electorate and the Australian Taxation Office. The constituent involved is 88 years of age. He has had a bit of trouble with the Taxation Office.  His  name is  Mr Gibbons.  He turned 88 years of age on 6 March, two days ago. Last Friday he left the Prince Henry Hospital after an eight days' stay due to falling in the house in Glebe where he is living.  Mr Gibbons  has been very absent minded in his old age. Like many old people he has a tendency to forget things. He needs constant supervision by his family. I am pleased to say that his family has not asked him to go into a nursing home. It is looking after him. 
He had some trouble in December with a tax cheque. In addition to his pension he receives a certain amount of money from the Workers Compensation Board in Sydney for a dirt disease. He is receiving approximately $160 per fortnight.  His  son-in-law helped him to fill in his tax assessment form. For some reason he did not include the pension which he receives. To his good luck, just before Christmas he received a tax cheque for $530. Not having had a holiday for many years he thought it would be handy to have one. Because he is 88 years of age he took his son away with him. He went to the Gold Coast. He had a good time and enjoyed himself. When he came home he was told that the Taxation Office had made a mistake and that he had to give back the $530 plus $230 because he had made a wrong statement in regard to the amount of money he was then receiving.  Mr Gibbons  has been very sick.  His  son-in-law saw me. He was a bit worried about his father-in-law because his father-in-law had been upset during the past couple of months.  His  father-in-law did not usually drink, but he had had a few drinks lately. He had been trying to calm himself down. He had to see a specialist doctor. 
I took up the matter with  Mr Gray  of the Taxation Office in New South Wales. I told him that the man was willing to pay back the money at the rate of $4 a fortnight. It was pointed out that he would be 103 years of age before he paid it off. We had a discussion with  Mr Gibbons.  He said that he would pay $20 a fortnight. While this was happening correspondence was received stating that  Mr Gibbons'  wages would be garnisheed Forty dollars a fortnight is to be taken out of the money he is receiving. Correspondence that I have shows that he is not receiving $300 a fortnight. Tax has to be deducted from that and he has to pay for health insurance. He has lost his telephone concession and his card which gave him certain transport entitlements. The man is very sick. He has just come out of hospital. I hope that the Treasurer will take up the case. I will talk to him afterwards. I hope he will do what he can. The man does not have any money. He had a few dollars and he went out and enjoyed himself. I am pleased to be able to say that his family is looking after him. As I said earlier, they have not sent him to a nursing home. He is trying to live the life that he has always enjoyed. I hope that some benefit will flow from what I have said. I was upset that the Taxation Office stated that it would garnishee his wages without telling me first. In other words, the Taxation Office said that it would garnishee his wages, which amounted to $40 a fortnight, without telling the Federal member of parliament who was handling his case. I believe that the Taxation Office is doing these things only to the little people. Other people can get away with it. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether he is aware that in his letter of 2 December to the Prime Minister,  Mr A.  J. Moyes, of IBM Australia Ltd, said: 
Immediately before your announcement of the election, and again soon afterwards, I expressed some of my concerns on this subject to  Mr Lynch. 
Were these the only two occasions on which  Mr Moyes  raised with the Minister the matter of a computer for the Australian Bureau of Statistics and the Department of Trade? Has  Mr Moyes  at any other time in the past approached the Minister about other computer contracts? 
asked the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
With reference to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, what was the total cost payable to the Hilton Hotel Sydney for (a) accommodation, (b) food, (c) liquor, (d) all other services and (e) compensation for damage. 
What was the total cost payable to other Sydney hotels and motels for accommodation and services provided to Australian officials and officials from other delegations. 
What was the cost of car hire charges made on the Department of Administrative Services for (a) government cars and (b) private cars. 
What was the cost of printing and stationery . 
How many telephone, teleprinter, telex and facsimile transmission unit services were installed in the Hilton Hotel and elsewhere. 
Were all of the services charged at standard rates; if not, what concessions were obtained. 
What were the installation costs of all the services referred to in part (5). 
What were the usage charges of all these services. 
What was the cost of hiring and purchasing office equipment, furniture, fittings and appliances. 
10) What was the cost of delivery and installation of the items referred to in pan (5). 
What compensation is payable to (a) the Hilton Hotel, (b) shopkeepers in the arcades in the Hilton Hotel and (c) other individuals or bodies. 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
) What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 7 March 1978. 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location? 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements? 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers? 
asked the Minister for Special Trade Representations, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce, in his statement of 15 December 1977, referred to a loan from QBE Insurance Ltd. Is the Minister aware that only three purchases of units in the Golden Gate development - 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
I refer the Minister for Industry and Commerce to a statement he made last year as Deputy Leader of the Federal Liberal Party about a three stage land development project at Balnarring, Victoria, involving his family companies. Is it a fact that the land in the project was connected to the mains water supply some five or six years earlier than the planning authorities had intended? Is it also a fact that the provision of the mains water supply enabled early and profitable sale of the land in 1976. 
I will not buy into the debate on the matter referred to by the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I will leave that to my colleagues. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton),  who spoke earlier during this debate, referred to expressways on the northern side of Sydney. The honourable member, who is not in the House at the moment, attacked the Premier of New South Wales and the New South Wales Minister for Transport. I might say that both the Premier and the Minister for Transport are doing a remarkable job. According to all the statistics and available surveys the New South Wales Labor Government will be in office for at least another 20 or 30 years. 
Tonight I wish to speak about the important subject of unemployment. As late as last Thursday the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said in this House that the unemployment situation was above politics. He asked for a joint committee to be established so that every effort could be made to eliminate the suffering of many Australians who are unemployed. After all, full employment should be the fundamental right of any person who is fit and well enough to work. I believe that any Commonwealth government should agree with this proposition. 
I would like so speak tonight about an article that appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  It is a large, well-circulated newspaper which includes a feature called the 'Monday Job Market'. It is the only large metropolitan newspaper in New South Wales, or in Australia, which every Monday at no cost to the employer or employee gives an opportunity for the unemployed person to put his message across for work and for the employer to ask for labour, that is, to advertise jobs. In this morning's edition I read that a car dealer has vacancies for 30 employees. The article stated: 
John Trlin says he is looking for 30 men, and a woman, from 1 5 to 52 years of age wanting to earn up to $50,000 a year. 
The article reports  Mr Trlin  as saying: 
I am desperate. I 'm prepared to take people from technical courses and sales courses. I'll teach them if they want it. 
The article continued: 
He said he would like men who can type and do shorthand. 

 Mr Trlin is reported as having stated that he has positions available for trainee salesmen to work 60 hours a week on commission only or on a retainer of $200 a week plus commission. He is looking for an insurance manager, who could earn $27,000 a year, an advertising manager, two service managers and a sales manager, who could earn $250 a week plus overtime. He is reported as having said: 
I give young kids a go. If they come good in the week-end jobs I take them on as apprentices. 
This intrigues me. I have great respect for the Monday Job Market' in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  This chap is either a genius or a fraud and I think that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  should employ him because the Government might need him. He could be a great help to it. Many unemployed people not only in Sydney but also throughout Australia are working 20 to 30 hours a week part-time and have no union shops. Many people now do not have to join a union. I am wondering whether the  Sydney Morning Herald,  which started off trying to help unemployed people, might be encouraging this trend. People who can do the jobs advertised might not have to join a union, and people such as  Mr Trlin  who put small advertisements in the newspapers might be assisting the development of this very dangerous situation. Many constituents in my electorate have received employment as a result of newspaper advertisements. On most occasions their replies to the advertisements have been acknowledged. Sometimes they have replied to the advertisements but have received no answer from prospective employers. I think it is important in the unemployment situation we have today that every person has to play the game, whether he be an employee or an employer. 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved, in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1 978: 
1 ) In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
I  ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: What is the purpose for which land bought at Bundall, Queensland, on 4 February 1977 by the Australian Postal Commission is to be used? For how long prior to the purchase had the Commission been seeking land in the Bundall area? What departmental officers or Government members were aware of the Commission's interest in acquiring land at Bundall? 
-Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that unemployed young people have not received a rise in the recent increase in unemployment benefit? Is he also aware that there has been no increase in this benefit for the last three years and that the present level is $36 a week? Will the Minister state why the Government is keeping the rate of unemployment benefit for young unemployed people at so low a level? 
-The unemployment situation in Australia, especially for the younger generation, is at rock bottom. We hear on radio, television and read in the newspapers heartbreaking stories of people looking for employment. I also read that executivetype men and women from 40 to 60 years of age have been retrenched. A recent survey by a Sydney consultant states that these employees were earning $10,000  to  $20,000 a year and are now unemployed. It was stated that from 37 per cent to 48 per cent of those retrenched cannot find employment in their own profession. Now we have two brackets which are unemployable; those from 16 to 25 years old and the 45 to 60 years age group. Both sexes are feeling this injustice all around Australia in this cancerous unemployment situation. Migrants are feeling the buffeting of unemployment. It is of concern to all of us. The language barrier and cultural difference add to the other problems in my electorate which are suffered in many other electorates in Australia. 
The Government has not been successful in the schemes under the National Employment and Training program. I have personally assisted the scheme. Employers have been subsidised and the unemployed have been helped. But this is not full employment. Such schemes have not been wholly supported by the majority of the people in many areas. In an article headed 'Job Market' in the  Sydney Morning Herald  last Monday, it is stated that there are 400 offices of the Commonwealth Employment Service around Australia. The article mentions the National Employment and Training scheme, the relocation assistance scheme, the Special Youth Employment Training program, the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship Full-Time Training, the CRAFT technical education rebate, the CRAFT off the job training rebate, the CRAFT partial apprenticeship scheme and the Educational Program for Unemployed Youth. As the average Australian is saying, these schemes have not been goers. In the last week the  Australian Financial Review  published an article headed 'Low Apprentice Ratio in Building Trades '. It states: 
The ratio of apprentices in training to qualified tradesmen in the building industry is among the lowest of any industry group in Australia, according to a recent survey by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
The number of apprentices training is only 22 per cent of the total number of qualified tradesmen. 
That is, one in five tradesmen has an apprentice. In the  Bulletin  of 9 May an article headed ' We face a drastic tradesman shortage ' states: 
The number of skilled workers in the NSW building industry fell by SO per cent between June 1 972 and September 1977. The number of carpenters fell from 17,480 to 9,715. The number of bricklayers fell from 7,330 to 3,826. 
This was stated by the  President  of the Master Builders Association, Ray Rocher. The point is that youths are crying out to be apprentices and there are no takers. Employers have no confidence in the Government. The Government apparently has had 29 months to start the engine of prosperity. Did the Government not promise that in 1975? It now claims that approximately 93 per cent of those available for employment are in employment. This is the sort of propaganda that is going on all over Australia. We have sacrificed Australia's young people not only through the continuing unemployment situation but also by paying them unemployment benefits of $36 a week. There has been no increase for over three years for 16 year old to 18 year old people. These youths are receiving now approximately $5.01 a day from which they have to pay their board or rent, their food, their clothes and their fares. The Minister and the Government should be ashamed. I know personally of cases of hardship in which parents cannot afford to help their children. They are unemployed, have other children or are sick and themselves need help. Many youths come from the country seeking employment in the city but finish up in crime and trouble. That applies to both males and females. 
The Minister explained yesterday in answer to a question that I asked that there are no worries; that the point is that the Federal Government considers the present level of unemployment benefit for young people under 18 years of age to be appropriate. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures for February showed a level of unemployment of 7 per cent and that the number of juniors aged 15 to 19 was 147,000. This represents a third of the jobless table. They receive, I repeat, $5.01 per day. If they received approximately $10 a day on top of that the cost would amount to $ 1 .5m. The Government is reported in the Press today as stating that it is saving millions of dollars in the future; that the way the LiberalCountry Party Government is carrying out its task of sacrificing our youth is proving a success. We have in the  Mirror  that statement by  Mr Fraser  and  Senator Guilfoyle.  They should both resign forthwith. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What public works have commenced, or are likely to commence, in 1978. 
What are (a) the locations, (b) the expected costs and (c) the expected completion dates of these projects. 
What is the expected new employment created by these projects. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
How many unemployed persons were registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service offices at (a) Leichhardt, (b) Rozelle, (c) Surry Hills, (d) Marrickville and (e) the City of Sydney (i) in the year 1976-77 and (ii) during the period 1 July 1977 to 31 March 1978. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 3 May 1978: 
1 ) Has he received any complaints from the Greek community in Australia regarding the inept handling of the disclosure of a racket on social security pensions by a few members of that community; if so, does he regard these complaints as being well founded. 
Will he take immediate action to assure the Australian public that the vast majority of the Greek community are worthy Australian citizens as my experience in the Electoral Division of Sydney clearly demonstrates. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) What has been the total cost of operating the Special Youth Employment Training Program (SYETP) and the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentices and Full-time Training Scheme (CRAFT) in the Electoral Division of Sydney during (a) 1976-77 and (b) the period 1 July 1977 to 3 1 March 1978. 
What has been the total number of youths from the Electoral Division of Sydney who have benefited from these schemes in (a) 1976-77 and (b) the period I July 1977 to 3 1 March 1978. 
How many youths were unemployed in the Electoral Division of Sydney in (a) the year 1976-77 and (b) the period I July 1977 to 3 1 March 1978. 
My question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government has borrowed, or contracted to borrow, overseas more than $2,000m in this financial year alone? Could the Acting Prime Minister inform the House how these funds have been disbursed and, in particular, could he indicate what public development works have been undertaken to increase employment as well as the productive potential of Australian industry, so as to ensure that Australia will have the capacity to repay the loans? 
-Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware that suggestions have been made that the Government is contemplating allowing the Vietnamese refugees known as 'Boat' people to become residents in the electorate of Sydney? Is he aware that they could be sheltered in the Commonwealth Glebe estate and also at motels in Glebe? Has he discussed this matter with the Minister who has the Glebe estate under his jurisdiction? 
-At the beginning of my speech, although there is such a short time to go, might I say that I think the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  made a very good speech. However, in fairness to my colleagues - 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night, I had spoken for less than a minute when the debate was interrupted. As I was saying then, when the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  spoke, he was a bit upset and he implied that them members of the Labor Party did not agree that there should be a subsidy provided in the National Health Amendment Bill for isolated people. I might say that I agree with that provision and the Labor Party agrees that it should be there. I must say, too, that my colleague, the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  has been worried about this matter for the last two or three years. He has had discussions with the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  on some taxation reductions. In my electorate of Sydney there are many hospitals, and the honourable member for Riverina has talked to me about the possibility of a reduction for the people who go there from his electorate, and this would apply to people from many other country electorates also. I believe it should be possible for people from the country who are looking after children or close relations who are ill to get some out of pocket expenses. It costs them many thousands of dollars if someone in the house is sick. I congratulate the Minister for introducing that benefit. I think he has done a remarkable job. Later on in my speech I will be attacking other aspects of the Bills, but in fairness to the Minister I thought I should let him know my thoughts on that matter. 
I support the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  in opposing the changes in the health scheme. The Opposition has proposed two amendments and last night we spoke against the Bills. The first of the three Bills under discussion is the Hospitals and Health Services Commission (Repeal) Bill which repeals the Commission established in 1 973. The former  Chairman  of the Commission,  Dr Sidney  Sax, has taken control of the Social Welfare Policy Secretariat which is to coordinate and absorb most of the functions of the Commission and its relationship to the Department of Social Security. We on this side of the House think that  Dr Sax  is a good man who has done a good job. We think that he will do a good job in the Secretariat and we congratulate him. 
The National Health Amendment Bill 1978 proposes four major changes. Firstly, it proposes the introduction of travel and accommodation allowances to residents of isolated areas requiring a professional service by a specialist more than 200 kilometres from the person's residence. The travel allowance will be the cost of approved travel less a patient contribution of $20, and there is also provision for an overnight accommodation allowance of $15 a night. That is the provision on which I congratulated the Government in my opening remarks. Secondly, the Bill provides that private funds will be prevented  horn  entering into bulk billing arrangements other than for eligible pensioners and their dependents, that is, those eligible for fringe benefits including the pensioner health benefits card. At present the permissible total income is $77.85 for single pensioners and $ 1 3 1 .80 for a married pensioner couple. The Bill also provides for an increase from $2 to $2.50 in the patient contribution for each pharmaceutical benefit item, and I will be saying more about that later on in my speech. The honourable member for Prospect has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude (a) the concept of optional deductibles, (b) the banning of bulk billing arrangements for medical services, other than those provided to eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) an increase from $2 to $2.30 in the patient contribution for a pharmaceutical item, and be reintroduced immediately to include the other measures'. 
The third Bill being dealt with in this cognate debate is the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1978. It is to amend the original Act so as to provide that certain persons- Australian residents overseas and overseas residents in Australia having foreign health cover- will be exempted from the health insurance levy and will be ineligible for benefits. It provides also for the exclusion of certain health screening services from payment of benefits. The Minister will be able to exclude payment of medical benefits in respect of medical services rendered by a person specified in the Gazette, such as Milan Brych, to Australians temporarily overseas where the Minister is satisfied that the person is not a proper person to render such services. Under the Bill, Australian Capital Territory hospitals will be brought under similar cost sharing agreements as those applying in the States. Provision is also made for the rectification of an anomaly which could have enabled doctors attending standard ward patients to charge a fee for service. There will be a reduction of the level of benefits payable under the Act from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the schedule fee and an increase of the maximum gap from $5 to $ 10 a service. This will not apply to fees received for the treatment of eligible pensioners. Bulk billing for Medibank for all except eligible pensioners will be abolished, and I will be saying more about  that  later. Provision is made for persons covered by optional deductible schemes to be exempted from payment of the levy. The Opposition has foreshadowed an amendment to the motion for the second reading of this Bill in the following terms: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 'the Bill be withdrawn and redrafted to exclude (a) reduction of the level of benefits from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the scheduled fee, (b) the abolition of bulk billing for all except eligible pensioners and their dependants and (c) the introduction of optional deductible schemes, and be re-introduced immediately to include the other measures'. 
I might say, because this is a cognate debate, that for the chronically ill, the poor in our community, the family man and his wife and children, the migrants and the Aboriginals that the changes being made by the Government to the system that has operated for the last 18 months or two years represents a retrograde step and will save only approximately 1.5 per cent of total medical costs. The Minister has been told by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to make these savings because of the Budget deficit. We all know that this is the fore-runner of a black* Budget in August. I have always had respect for the Minister for Health, but I think that this is a case where he did not have the numbers in Cabinet. I put a case to the Minister in relation to domiciliary nusring care for a couple of elderly people, one of whom was 85 and the other 89. We discussed the matter and the Minister agreed that if it were possible he would do something about old people and their dependants. In the case to which I referred there were two daughters looking after the women. I am pleased to say that the Act is being changed to give everyone of 1 6 years of age and over an opportunity to receive the benefit. Again, I congratulate the Minister for that, but I am very perturbed that he had to take these other steps because I think he is a humane man. However, as  1  have said, he has not got the numbers and he has to do what he is told. 
When questioned by the honourable member for Prospect about the injustice to the needy of the proposed scheme relating to the abolition of bulk billing and of the future changes to the national health scheme, the Minister stated that the medical profession would show compassion for individuals in needy circumstances. Under the heading 'Doctors Charging More', a report in the Sydney  Sun  on 25 May 1978 states: 
A recent survey by The Sun found that 80 per cent of doctors in all suburbs were charging above the Government recommended fees. 
On the average, doctors in the northern suburbs charged the highest at $9.70, but some as high as $ 1 1 . 
The doctors' fees were even higher than those recommended by the Australian Medical Association which was $9.40 for a standard visit to a general practitioner. 
Doctors in the inner city areas were found to be charging the lowest average at $8.60. 
However, the lowest consultation fee was charged by a western suburbs doctor at $6.50. 
The survey also found that 50 per cent of doctors ignored the recommended fee of $14 and AMA's own recommendation of $13.20. 
We found one doctor in the southern suburbs was charging $30 for a visit- $16.80 more than the AMA's recommended fee. 
The AMA said that doctors were not obliged to charge the scheduled fees set down by  Mr Justice  Ludeke, which were mainly for the benefits of funds to set their refunds. 
The AMA claimed today low income groups and the chronically ill faced hardship following yesterday's changes to Medibank. 
Large families would also be adversely affected, the AMA warned. 
The Association's general secretary,  Dr George  Repin, said the changes could also increase health costs in the long run. 
The Minister believes that the medical profession will accept a reduction in profits as a result of reducing the benefit from 85 per cent to 75 per cent of the fee charged. I have outlined a survey conducted by one newspaper, and there are many other examples around New South Wales, which indicates that 80 per cent of doctors in all the suburbs around the electorate of Sydney are charging above the recommended fee. As the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  said when the Minister was discussing the proposed charges, the Minister believes in fairy tales. There is now to be no bulk billing except for pensioners and their families because some doctors have made great financial gains from bulk billing, thus interfering with the system. But the Minister cannot name those doctors. I ask the Minister, who is in the House at the moment, to bring the matter out into the open. If doctors are interfering with the system and fraudulently taking the Commonwealth Government's money, I think we should name them. The Minister has agreed to give the people of Australia a fair go. The people who are listening to this debate today should write to him telling him which doctors are not carrying out their jobs and which doctors are not agreeing to bulk bill. 
In many instances throughout New South Wales- it must be so in all States- signs are displayed in doctors' reception rooms which state, in effect, that a patient who has no money will not be looked after. I know many people who do not have ready cash to pay doctors' fees. I remember what happened one Saturday when one of my first three children had influenza. I rang a doctor and he said that he would call in to see the child later. When he did not arrive I rang him at his home. He had forgotten about me. He said that he had had to go out. He is entitled to go out just as politicians are entitled to go out. He came to my place at approximately 8.15 that night. By then my three children were sick and he asked for fees for treating the three of them. I will never forget that. In those days, before decimal currency, I had to pay approximately 1 1 to the doctor and the prescriptions cost 3 10s. to fill. Luckily I was able to borrow 20 from my mother and father the next day. But many people do not have ready cash and many people cannot get credit. I wish that in those days I had as much credit as I have now. As members of parliament we are given credit because, I suppose, we will receive superannuation when we retire. Credit is usually available to most people at the wrong time. Will we be allowed to use our Bankcards to pay doctors' accounts? Will we be allowed to use other credit cards? The way things are going, I think the goose that lays the golden egg has been worked too hard. I think the people will reject any further approaches by doctors for increases in fees. 
The AMA must be one of the strongest unions in Australia if not the world. If a deputation from the trade union movement asks for wage justice the National Country Party and the Liberal Party say a few words about what is going on and claim that the unions are breaking the country, but they do not stand up to the AMA. The AMA must have the greatest lobbyists of all. 
I would not say that they are crook because I do not know about that. Some crf my friends are doctors and they are remarkable people; they worry about the little people and the people who are sick. Some 600 students in New South Wales who completed their Higher School Certificate last year undertook medicine at university. I think it costs approximately $40,000 to $50,000 to put a medical student through university, but when he graduates he seems to forget where he came from. There will come a time when doctors will pay dearly for this because I think the people of Australia will reject their demands. At the conference of the New South Wales branch of the Labor Party at the Sydney Town Hall last Saturday the Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Mr Hayden)  stated: 
The Government is determined to cling to its view that living standards must be cut, that those in need should be abandoned in even greater numbers. 
The Government is forcing the union movement towards confrontation with its policy that real wages must be reduced and wage rates compressed further. 
It continues to hack away at Medibank, a Labor innovation which removed the fear of sickness from countless thousands of Australians. 
Let me say this plainly; Labor will restore Medibank. 
It remains one of our highest priorities. 
Consistent with responsible handling of the economy, the restoration of Medibank as a universal protection for all Australians will be achieved as quickly as we can manage it. 
It is a commitment we will not back away from. 
At the conference of the Victorian branch of the Labor Party the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, said: 
Health care will undoubtedly be a key issue once again at the next election. It is a matter deserving close attention before the next Federal Conference. 
Certainly, this Government has reduced Medibank to a confused mess. Remember Malcolm Fraser's pledge in his 1975 policy speech? 
We will maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. ' 
In half a year he tried to kill Medibank! 
Two weeks ago the Government took its latest step to maintain' Medibank and health care. It abolished bulk billing, thereby disadvantaging the unemployed, the low income family, the person on sickness or special benefits, the supporting mother and many pensioners. A total of 676,000 people on social service benefits can now expect to have to pay cash in advance when they visit their doctor. 
Not only that, they will have to pay up to a dollar more per consultation. 
The abolition of bulk billing and the reduction of rebate from 85 per cent to 75 per cent will have the effect of placing community health centres without salaried doctors in an almost untenable position to provide effective primary health care. 
By 1980, the National Health Scheme will again be in tattersas it was before Labor was elected to Government on the promise of Medibank in 1972. 
Health care goes well beyond health insurance. But guaranteeing that doctors will have no bad debts does not necessarily mean proper care for the sick. Labor's program of community health services was a highly effective one where we were able to implement it. This Government has done little to expand that service. It is a course of action a future Labor Government could apply vigorously. 
What effect will the cost changes in regard to health insurance have on Aborigines? Many Aborigines live in the electorate of the Deputy 
Leader of the Opposition- that is, KingsfordSmith and in my electorate of Sydney. An article from the  Sydney Morning Herald  entitled  Health services for Aborigines fear effects of cost changes 'states: 
A deputation from the services told the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  on Tuesday that abolition of bulk billing, reduction of the benefit rate from 85 to 75 per cent of scheduled fees, and increased charges for medicines would have serious effects on Aboriginal health and the operation of the services. 
I am pleased to say that the Minister has stated that he will examine the effect on Aborigines of cost changes. The new changes are likely to cost the Aboriginal Medical Service at Redfern most of the $100,000 it expects to raise from medical fees in 1978-79. It could be in trouble with regard to keeping its services going. I know it is doing a remarkable job in that locality. I am pleased to say that the Minister is willing to allow it to continue bulk billing until he makes a decision. 
Until he has made alternative satisfactory arrangements. The national cost of health care is $7,000m and the Commonwealth's share of the bill is $3,000m. This change to the scheme will mean a cost saving to the Government in a full year of $24m. The Government did not worry about the cost of the VIP aeroplanes it decided to purchase. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I oppose the Health Insurance Amendment Bill. When I spoke on this Bill earlier, I left out a few matters. I appreciate having the opportunity to mention them now. After months of dallying about cutting health costs the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  has come out with new proposals which smack of elitism. The Government's proposals are long on good intention but short of substance. The new proposals show that the Government is not thinking of the health of Australians but is thinking only of its own deficits. Doctors have nothing to be joyous about with these new proposals. As we know, even the Australian Medical Association is divided on this issue. Doctors will be affected by the number of patients who will no longer avail themselves of the services of doctors. By cutting medical benefit rates from 85 per cent to 75 per cent and by increasing from $5 to $10 the maximum patient contribution the Government will force us to pay more for our health. 
The national health bill is $7,000m and the Commonwealth's share of the bill is $3, 000m. The cost saving to the Government under this new scheme for a full year will be $24m. The Government has a miserable system of priorities. It decides that two VIP jets costing $30m to $40m are much more desirable than having a health care scheme for all Australians. The cost of saving $24m will be offset by a cost of $7m to complete the elimination process of bulk billing, so the net saving to the Government will be $17m- a mere 0.5 per cent. The Government's abolition of bulk billing for all people except pensioners from 1 July is a retrograde step. It will constitute a telling blow to people in the low income bracket who cannot afford to pay for more than basic coverage for medical care. It will severely disadvantage middle income earners, low income earners, the unemployed and the pensioners who have already suffered bad cuts in their fringe benefits and health cards. 
The proposal of deductibles will benefit only the healthy young and the very rich. The gap insurance plan is weakening the arguments of the Government as costs will be greater and the low income earners will not be able to afford to take out insurance on the gap. As stated in the 1976-77 report from the Health Commission which was released three weeks ago, the average cost of each medical bulk bill was $2.70 cheaper than individual accounts. In the electorate of Sydney over 56 per cent of practising medicos bulk bill and in New South Wales over 15,000 bulk bill. If doctors enforce the 'pay now' rule we will have a shambles. If the public has to pay cash on the spot to receive medical treatment, mothers with children, pensioners, low income earners and the chronically ill will be unable to see their doctors as their costs will be too high. The casualty departments in the State hospital will once again be flooded. The State hospitals will be unable to cope with a new flood of patients and State governments will be responsible for remedying that. Consequently doctors who bulk bill will find themselves in trouble too because most of the beneficiaries who are now eligible for bulk billing will no longer be eligible and the doctors will lose their patients as the cost will be beyond the reach of the Australian public. It will deter people from seeing the doctor and the health of generations of Australians will be jeopardised. Doctors should come out and support the opposition of the Australian Labor Party to these new proposals. People who use doctors ' services most will have to pay more and people who use them least will pay less. I should like to ask the Minister a question relating to a statement he made on 24 May, which is recorded in  Hansard  as follows: 
The change in medical benefits is expected to lead to a reduction of 46c a week, family rate, in medical insurance contributions, reducing the average rate to $4.54 a week. In this connection, I would point out that it is a matter for the funds to calculate changed rates of contribution and to then apply to me for approval. This will, of course, take a little time, but applications will be processed as quickly as possible once they are received. In approving changed contribution rates, I will naturally take into account that the reduced benefits are operating from 1 July this year. 
I wanted to ask this question of the Minister this morning at Question Time, but I was not called by  Mr Speaker.  I ask the Minister whether he recalls making that statement, as well as the following statement: 
The reduction in the percentage level covered by medical benefits and the increase in the patient gap is expected to lead to a reduction in medical insurance contributions. 
I further ask the Minister whether he is aware that in a letter circulated by the General Manager of Medibank to all Medibank staff he stated in the last paragraph: 
I regret that I do not see us as being able to offer any reduction in medical insurance rates from 1 July 1978 as a result of these changes. 
Can the Minister explain the miscalculation on the part of the Government? 
asked the Minister for Finance, upon notice, on 24 May 1978: 
1 ) What are the functions of the Superannuation Fund Investment Trust. 
Who is the  Chairman  of the Trust. 
When was he appointed. 
What are his qualifications for this important position. 
Was the position advertised; if not, were others considered for the position. 
Who selected the present incumbent. 
7 ) Is it a full-time position. 
What salary and allowances are paid. 
What is the amount invested by the Trust and where are the funds invested. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 25 May 1978: 
Did his predecessor state in presenting the 1977-78 Budget that the Government would introduce half indexation of the personal income tax rate scales from 1 July 1978. 
If so, will the Government use as its base for half indexation the annual increase in consumer price index to March 1978 of 8.2 per cent. 
) If not, will the base be discounted and in what way. 
Will any discounting of the CPI have the effect of providing less than half indexing. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
What industries are likely to be most affected by a future shortage of skilled labour. 
To what extent are they likely to be affected. 
What is the Government doing to offset this expected future shortage of skilled labour. 
How effective have Government initiatives been to date. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that an assumption of a 7.5 per cent rise in average weekly earnings has been used in estimating payasyouearn taxation deductions for 1978-79? Further, is the rise in the average salary and allowances for public servants assumed to be only 3.85 per cent for 1978-79? Does this lower assumption for Public Service salaries result in a saving in total outlays and a deficit of the order of $ 100m? Does the Treasurer still stand by his statement made on last Tuesday's  AM  program that this Budget was honestly framed? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, after listening to the last  speaker  from the Government side, the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean),  I think I can say that we agree with each other on many of the issues which have been discussed in relation to the two Bills, the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill and the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill. We differ only in regard to the financial side of the matter. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe)  spoke on the issue on which I will speak tonight, that is, the need for more finance. I think that the honourable member for Perth summed up his speech in his last few words when he said that the States should take more cognisance of the troubles associated with these two Bills. The point is that the States do not have the money. That is the injustice that is occurring under this Government. These programs were initiated by the Labor Government, but there has been a tendency on the part of the Fraser Liberal and National Country Party coalition Government to take away the benefits that have been provided for the needy. It has left this one, but it is putting responsibility for it back into the hands of the States. 
The Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill seeks to amend section 3 of the principal Act to allow the program to run over five years. The original Act specified a period of three years. The Act was amended on 10 November 1977 to extend the period to four years. Between 1976 and 1978 the Government spent $3.2m on this program, and $3. 9m has been allocated for 1978- 79. Grants totalling $6.4m have been approved. No new grants have been approved, nor will they be approved. So finance will not be provided for the remainder of the approvals until 1979- 80. The Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Hayden,  expected that in the three years between 1974 and 1977 a Labor government would spend $ 14m on this program. At this stage the three year period has passed and nowhere near that amount of money has been spent. 
I wish to speak for a few moments about the Homeless Persons Assistance Act and how it came to being. Last year a Government member revealed that some destitute men in Brisbane were living under what were classed as 'slave camp' conditions. Such cases have highlighted the need for urgent decisions on the future of the homeless persons assistance program. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  who is now in this chamber, have agreed to keep that program alive. Further information on the health of homeless men has been given in a recently released Poverty Commission research report entitled 'Health Study of Collective Disadvantaged Groups'. An earlier account of vagrancy and drunkenness convictions has been recorded in the Poverty Commission research report entitled 'Homeless Men and the Law'. The homeless persons assistance program is a three year program. It was an initiative of the Whitlam Government, but it has suffered the same fate as the three-year Australian Assistance Plan and the area improvement program. I thought that the homeless persons assistance program might have been axed but I am pleased to say that it is still alive although, as I said earlier, responsibility for it will be put back into the hands of the State governments. It will be up to them to see what they can do to keep it up to the standard at which it has operated over the last few years. 
Following a working party on homeless men and women set up in February 1973 by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Bill  Hayden, which reported later in the year on the feasibility of the program to assist them, legislation was foreshadowed by the then Prime Minister in the 1974 election campaign and was introduced by Bill Hayden in November 1974. Grants were available to organisations for existing and improved hostels, day attendance centres, detoxification clinics and work centres. They covered rent, furnishing and equipment, with subsidies for welfare staff members and a subsidised meal allowance. In his second reading speech the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Bill  Hayden, said: 
The measures proposed within the Bill are based on a compassionate understanding of the needs and very real problems of homeless men and women and of their alienation, their loneliness and their despair . . . Our Government is determined to end such areas of neglect. 
It received enthusiastic approval from the then Opposition spokesman on social security, now  Senator Chipp.  He said: 
At least he has made a start. We did not for 23 years ... I commend the Government for this humanitarian piece  of legislation 
I hope that  Senator Chipp  will support our thoughts on this matter when it reaches the Senate. In an internal Department of Social Security report it is stated: 
The trouble with homeless people, regarded as a group, is not that they are defective or homeless, but that they are poor, sick, defenceless and lacking in self-esteem. 
I might say that the average age of homeless men is about 46 years. That was mentioned in the same report. But because of the unemployment situation these people are becoming younger. I will refer to that later in my speech. Their level of schooling is lower than average and the portion of the sample investigated by the Poverty Commission who never attended school is almost three times as great as the corresponding portion of the male population in New South Wales. One in five has been homeless for more than 10 years and almost one in ten has been homeless for more than 15 years. They have a far higher rate of diagnosed illnesses. The point is that we must think of the older people. The former honourable member for Werriwa asked the Prime Minister a question concerning the number, location and value of applications awaiting approval under the 1977 Act. I wish to deal with the organisations in my electorate that were seeking approval. The Churches of Christ in Surry Hills required approval for a project to the value of $50,000. The Salvation Army in Surry Hills required approval for one project for $198,016 and another for $130,000. The St Vincent de Paul Society required approcal for a $3. 5m project in Woolloomooloo. The applications in New South Wales invoved $4m. The sum for Victoria was $2.3m; Queensland, $475,000; South Australia, $203,000; Western Australia, $80,000; Tasmania, $382,000. The total amount of money involved as at June 1977 was $7,554,080. As I said before, only a small amount of money has been set aside for expenditure in this area of social welfare. The stage has now been reached where many of these projects will not be completed. 
In this regard I refer to an article in the  National Times  for the week ending 5 August concerning an appeal launched by the St Vincent de Paul Society for $3m to finance extensive additions to its Matthew Talbot Hostel in Sydney. A reporter, Michael Cordell, went to Woolloomooloo to take a close look at one of Sydney's major centres for homeless and destitute men. The position there at this stage is that approval involving an amount of $3.5m has not been given. The Society is taking up collections. It is looking at ways and means of saving the hostel and methods by which it can make the hostel a better place for people to live. Michael Cordell began the article he wrote as follows: 
A drunk lay unconscious just down from Sydney's Matthew Talbot Hostel for homeless men. Beside him was an empty bottle of the standard booze- Brown Muscat, Royal Reserve. Unless he got into the hostel shelter, 20 yards away, he'd be picked up by the police before midnight. It was now 7 p.m., cold and dark. He would still be there when it rained at 10 p.m. 
The hostel is hidden down the unseen side of Kings Cross, where the street lights are dim . . . 
Many people go to this area because they need a home. According to a survey approximately one in four of the women in the Sydney electorate are in need of someone to look after them. They have to depend for their welfare on charity from organisations such as the St Vincent de Paul Society, the Salvation Army, the Uniting Church in Australia and the Brotherhood of St Laurence. I again refer to the article in the  National Times.  It indicates that these homeless people sleep in a dormitory which has approximately 400 beds. Those beds are usually all filled on wet nights. During winter some people sleep in the dining room on extra mattresses. The article reads: 
The Federal Government funds 75 cents per person, per night. If they stay for a single meal it drops to 25 cents. 
About 80 per cent of labour employed at the hostel is voluntary, but, despite this, last year's running costs totalled about $333,000. The management expects this year's figure to reach $400,000. 
Total grants towards last year's running costs were $67,895 from the Federal Government, $6,000 from the New South Wales Government and $25,000 from the St Vincent de Paul Society Conference. 
The remaining $234, 105 came from public contributions. 
About 200 men were downstairs watching television and talking. There were more upstairs who had gone to bed early. Most were either pensioners or unemployed. 
The article talks about three men at this hostel who are 24 years of age. The average age of the people at this hostel is thirty-eight years. More money is needed by this hostel. The onus for helping these people is being placed more and more on the volunteers- all classes of people, including teenagers and grandparents- who go out into the streets at night to help these needy people. I hope that the Minister for Health will convey my remarks to the Minister for Social Security. The Government should provide more money to assist these people who need help. This sort of welfare assistance should be above politics, if possible. The Prime Minister has been saying right through that more money is going to the States and that the States will have to accept more responsibility. The States would have to put up their taxes to do so, but the people cannot afford to pay higher taxes. However, I do say that we should try to help these needy people. 
Under the States Grants (Home Care) Act there are three forms of assistance. The amending Bill which we are now debating seeks to alter the method of funding in two areas of assistance. The proposed amendment to section 6 of the Act reduces the amount of money payable to the States in connection with an approved home care service scheme from two-thirds to one-half. The amendment to section 10 of the Act reduces the amount of money payable to the States for the salary of a welfare officer of a senior citizens centre from two-thirds to one-half. There is no amendment to section 8, which refers to senior citizens centres. Two-thirds of the cost of construction of these centres is still being paid by government, presumably because approvals have been given in advance on this basis. An amount of $15. 5m has been allocated for spending under this legislation in 1978-79 but because of the reduced allocation it is not certain that the State governments will match the grants. The Australian Council of the Aging, the Pensioners Federation, Professor Henderson and all the local government bodies are protesting. 
The Government's decision to cut the subsidies for services to the elderly people lacks sense and compassion. Under the States Grants (Home Care) Act, State and local governments will now receive half instead of two-thirds of the cost of providing home help to the sick and aged. This service is one which prevents such people being admitted to or having to remain in institutional care, at considerably greater community cost. It is ridiculous for the Government to force the States into reducing bed utilisation in hospitals if care cannot be provided for the patients sent home. Every government report, including those reports commissioned by the Fraser Government, has recommended increasing these services. Aged people should be assisted to remain in their own homes and community if they wish. It saves massive construction of housing for the aged and nursing homes- programs already severely cut by the Government. Welfare officers employed by local government under these grants play an important role in preventive medicine by assisting the elderly to remain socially active and in touch with community health facilities. No new grants have been given in the time of the Fraser Government and the present cuts mean that local government bodies will have to find several hundred thousand dollars, sack their welfare officers or put up their rates. There was no consultation with the States, local government or voluntary organisations. It was yet another ill-considered and petty act of a government that is prepared to give $600m in tax concessions to the top 10 per cent in the country while cheese paring on the elderly poor to save at best $lm. Honourable members may have read in the last couple of weeks an article in the Sydney  Sun  headed 'Pensioners Hit', which reads: 
 Thousands of old age pensioners in NSW will be forced into institutions because of Federal Government spending cuts, says the man who conducted the inquiry into poverty in Australia. 
The claim was made by Professor Ronald Henderson, commenting on a Government decision to reduce spending on the home-care services. 
Local councils throughout your State have been put in the position of having to find the money and they simply can 't, ' he said. 
The Government has cut the subsidy from a $2 to $ 1 subsidy to a $ 1 for $ 1 subsidy. 
The money was channelled from the Commonwealth through the State Grants (Home Care) Act. 
Professor Henderson also criticised the cut as 'negative economics '. 
It will cost the Government $ 10,000 a year for every old age pensioner who is institutionalised, ' he said. 
The Government expects to save $3. 8m through the cuts. 
A spokesman for the Combined Pensioners Association of NSW said the cuts would be 'a tragedy'. 
What amazes me about Government cuts is that they seem to be taking money from the poor,' said  Mr Jim  Sharrock, State Secretary of the association. 
That is the theme which appeared in the newspapers day after day. On 9 August 1978 the Melbourne  Age  carried an article headed: 4 T tution no place for the aged: expert'. The editorial in the  Age  of 8 August 1 978 was headed: A mean way to save money'. The honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Shipton)  is not in the House at the moment but it might be a good way to conclude my speech by reading some comments he made which were reported in the  Age  of 2 August 1978. The article is headed: 'Homehelp: Lib MP attacks cuts by Canberra'. The article states: 
Federal Liberal MP  Mr Roger  Shipton last night criticised the Federal Government's halving of a subsidy for special home-help services to the aged. 

 Mr Shipton said he believed the cuts, which may leave thousands of elderly and disadvantaged families without the service, were slipped past the Government by the Public Service. 
The bureaucrats always tend to hit at consumer services rather than cut the fat from the public service, ' he said. 
I'm concerned that this is directed at the people who are least able to cope. It stops a service that helps people help themselves. ' 
The cuts will force scores of aged and frail people into institutions which are already over-taxed. 
The Premier,  Mr Hamer,  yesterday said the State Government would not increase its subsidy to maintain the service. 
One State government is now saying that it will not help. As I said at the commencement of my remarks, we will be in trouble from now on because the State governments do not have the money. I might say also that I am very pleased that a Liberal back bencher came out and criticised the Government. 
Yes, that is right, a few of them are honest. I read in this morning's newspapers that they are saying that they have been gagged in their own Caucus, so they have to go to the media to say a few words. I am pleased that they have enough stomach to come out with the truth and that they agree with what I am saying. Another article, which appeared in the  Age  on 1 August 1978, is headed: 'Cash cuts to hit frail aged '. The article states: 
Scores of frail old people will be forced into institutions because of a Federal Government decision to halve the subsidy for home-care services. 
Many of the people would die without seeing their homes again . 
This is the theme that runs right through the newspapers in Australia. I hope that the Minister for Health, who is at the table, will convey these thoughts to the Minister for Social Security, in the other place. I hope that in the future we can work as a team in looking after the needy. As I said before, very many people in my own electorate need the money. Many people are in the position of needing to be looked after. One never knows when some politician might end up on Skid Row. 
-The Liberal-National Country Party Government has again failed to recognise and relieve the social and human problems existing in Australia. I quote the  Australian  newspaper's editorial of the morning after the Budget, that is, Wednesday, 15 August: 
We wanted a go-forward and we got a whoa-back Budget. At a time when we needed to take a giant step forward, out of the rut of recession, we have been given a Budget, which takes us, if it takes us anywhere, back to square one . . . 
This Budget smacks of elitism. It is mean-spirited and full of broken election promises while safeguarding a few sacred cows of the establishment forces. One example of this is that there has been no increase in company tax. In reality this Budget serves to penalise the poor, the sick, the aged, the young and the family man. Tonight in this House the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  again showed his contempt for people by sacrificing Australians. There are more than 400,000 unemployed today in a work force of approximately 6 million people. As there are only 14 million people in Australia, the unemployment figure is a thorough disgrace. 
I would like to take issue with some of the short-sighted policies that this regressive Government has decided to implement. I say, as other honourable members from both sides of this House have said, that the cut by the Government in the time of an honourable member's speech on the Budget from 20 minutes to 15 minutes is a retrograde step. I turn now to the subject of health. The last comprehensive Budget measure was a complete change in the national health scheme. In effect, it is a 'hello-goodbye' to health care. It was only three months ago that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  announced a change to the health system which confused everyone, including the Minister. With the new announcement there is renewed chaos and we have the Government running around in circles. 
There are major problems with this new scheme. Let us look at some of them. The Government may have introduced a 40 per cent rebate system but the Minister has given no guarantee that the 40 per cent rebate of the doctor's fee will be continued beyond June of next year. The scheme can be criticised in that those making levy payments will be better off, those at the lower end of the scale will be marginally better off, while those at the higher end of the scale will benefit greatly. Furthermore, the Government may have underestimated the number of Australians who may gamble and make do with the universal health scheme. As such, government funding will be well below the Government's expectations. Also, the Minister has admitted that no legislation can be introduced which defines the term 'socially disadvantaged'. If that is so, why give this responsibility of deciding who is socially disadvantaged and who is not to the doctors? By doing so, it will also fall on the doctors to decide who is to receive bulk-billing services. It is a matter for curiosity that the Government has so decided when the Australian Medical Association has been diametrically opposed to the system of bulk-billing ever since the Hayden Medibank scheme was introduced. 
Further, there is an argument between the doctors themselves as to whether there should be a fee freeze. However, there is a catch to this in that the AMA can only apply a fee freeze subject to an inquiry into fees. I ask: Why have an inquiry only into fees; why not have a full inquiry into the medical profession as a whole? Fee structuring is only one facet of the profession. I say to the Minister for Health that someone has to be strong enough to take on the AMA. As we know, the AMA is the strongest union in Australia. I ask the Minister to show his strength and take it on. 
The question of motive also arises. It is quite clear that the motive was to smash the Medibank system and to fiddle with the consumer price index- nothing more. Funding the health scheme out of general revenue, will supposedly reduce the consumer price index. At the most it will be reduced by only 0.5 per cent. The estimated cost to the new scheme will be well over $62 lm in a full year. According to the  Australian Financial Review of  8 September: 
The health funds are threatening an unexpected cost burden to the Government as it thrashes out the practical details . . . 
The funds are demanding a commission for handling claims for the new Commonwealth medical benefit way above what the Health Depanment expected. 
The development casts further doubt on the cost estimates of the new scheme . . . 
In addition, the Government is to spend some $400,000 on an advertising campaign to explain to the Australian people what the new health scheme means. Little thought has gone into the administration of the scheme and to the cost. No doubt we will have another revised health scheme in three months' time. This entire scheme is a mess. The Prime Minister's undertaking on behalf of his Government to 'maintain Medibank and ensure that the standard of health care does not die' is another broken promise. It is another lie and another major blunder by the Government. 
I turn now to social security and in particular to the age pensioner 70 years and over. Those persons over 70 years of age who are receiving a pension free of the means test will have their pensions frozen at the present level unless they qualify under the new means test to be applied. Also, instead of receiving an increase by way of a twice-yearly adjustment to their pension in line with the consumer price index, their increases have been cut to once a year, that is, each 1 November. This will mean at least a 16-month lag behind the cost of living rises for these pensioners. It is a fact that the Government knows that there is inequality in the current pension scheme, but it is also a fact that it is a move designed to lull pensioners into thinking that the Government is fair-minded and that the Government is trying to rid the system of the anomalies by reintroducing the means test for those over 70 years. It is a false and irresponsible confidence trick for the Government to mislead the Australian public. Nothing can be further from the mark. Australians, including the pensioners, are wide awake to this. If any pensioners over 70 years are in the wealthy category they will be paying a high tax irrespective of that; so the reintroduction of a means test is a mockery of the Government's attempt to show that it is aware of the imbalance of the pension system. Also there is an undertone in that future increases could be linked to August Budget pronouncements. This is quite unsavoury. 
Whilst the Government may think that it has treated these pensioners justly, the people on the dole will think differently. From 1 November no increases will be granted to those on the dole. The only people on unemployment benefit who will be entitled to any increase will be those with dependants. Honourable members may well ask who these people are. They include the family man who has been sacked or retrenched, the man who is the sole breadwinner of the family, and the man or the woman of the house who has to pay rent, who has to clothe the children and themselves as well. It also includes the lone mother or lone father who is struggling to meet commitments and who has been placed in the situation of being on the dole. It is these people who could fall into the poverty category. Does this sound like the great Australia that we know of? It is repulsive to think that Australians can penalise fellow Australians to this extent and can cause untold suffering and hardship, all for the sake of a 0.5 per cent drop in the inflation rate. 
It is interesting to note that the Budget provides for an increase of only $9.6m in the estimates for unemployment benefit. This would cover no more than the next indexed increase in the benefit rate, now to be restricted to those with dependants, and makes absolutely no concession to the looming possibilities of increasing unemployment. I wish to comment on the crucial matter of unemployment. The Government is continuing to refuse to acknowledge the worsening unemployment situation. Even in the Budget Speech the Government admitted that unemployment would increase by  Vh  per cent. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  indicated in his Estimates that unemployment would increase by at least 100,000 during 1978-79. 
In reality, the figure is more likely to be over 200,000 as school leavers will again be entering the job market during December 1978 and January 1979. Few of these school leavers will survive the first round of job-hunting. Many will end up on the proverbial social scrap-heap for this year and for many years to come. The prospects of a half a million people unemployed by Christmas this year is depressing to say the least. The figure cited is based on the current official estimates of 400,000 unemployed. However, with the conflict of information being issued by the Bureau of Statistics and the Commonwealth Employment Service the unemployment figures are questionable. Indeed the number of unemployed could be much higher than we are led to believe; maybe 600,000 by Christmas. At present over 20 people are applying for each job vacancy. In addition there is concern that the frustrated unemployed may actually leave the labour force in view of the adverse employment prospects. There is this variable, that the drop-out rate of labour may have a decided effect on the number of registered unemployed. It is in this area of drop-outs that there is major concern, as there appears to be an apparent under-estimation of the number of unemployed according to the unemployment statistics. 
The Government's election promise that unemployment would keep falling is another broken promise. The Government has embarked on a deliberate unemployment policy to force a recession on Australia. Whilst the Government has shown its obsession with a reduction in the deficit it has not shown the same magnificent obsession for the unemployment problem. In addition, for the Government to state that the wages spiral is the only cause for the unemployment problem clearly demonstrates that it is living in a cocoon. Further, for the Government to implicitly threaten the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in its industrial function as a national wage fixing body, that is that the Government, as an employer, would lay off staff if the Commission did not toe the line and become an economic oracle, gives cause for alarm. By this action, the Government adopts a policy of threat rather than inspires confidence in itself as an employer. It is a fragile basis for optimism. There are so many variables in the Government's policies that it would be ludicrous to hope for any improvement in the unemployment situation. This is another broken promise to add to the growing list of broken promises. 
I turn now to the housing industry. What a shemozzle. The home savings grant scheme is a mess. It is extraordinary that the Government has illustrated a complete lack of forethought. Again it has failed to recognise the needs of Australians for home ownership. For 1978-79 $20m was provided, which, in itself, is $ 14.9m less than the amount provided in the previous financial year. Does the Government really think that the desire for home ownership has slackened to such an extent that it considered a $ 14.9m drop in the home savings grant justifiable. The Government's continual claim that it is concerned for Australians to be able to buy their own homes has been shattered by its own short-sighted policies. The Government has been caught in that it has found it necessary to allocate money from this year's amount of $20m to clear up the backlog of applicants for the grant from the previous year. The result is that there is only $5m in the kitty for allocation for this year's grants. The initial assertion by the Government that it could only entail a nine-month wait is incorrect. Those applicants who applied prior to 27 July 1978 may be lucky enough to receive their grant. However, applications made after that date will have a long wait until after the 1979-80 Budget is brought down. This is a waiting period of at least 12 months. Why should Australians be forced to wait one year before they are entitled to receive this home savings grant? 
In addition, the gamble by the Government that interest rates will be reduced is a remote possibility. Unfortunately, the housing industry and the building industry generally is subject to various monetary changes in policy, both to the availability of money and to interest rates. The high interest rate has forced potential home buyers back into the rental market, which is creating a strain on the rental market and, in turn, creating a long waiting list for those potential buyers who are also depending on building society finance. Further, the elimination of the home loan interest tax deductibility scheme will make it more difficult for families on low and moderate incomes to afford mortgage repayments. For example, the man on $175 a week buying his home on mortgage was getting a big help from the deduction off the top of his income of a substantial part of his interest payments. A $4 a week reduction was worthwhile to some families and now it is gone. To a man on $300 a week or more it did not really matter as he did not get the housing concession anyway as his income was too high for him to receive this tax concession. 
In reference to taxation I point out that less than a year ago the Prime Minister boasted: 'We have reduced taxes and the Government will bring taxes down further, not increase them'. Yet personal income tax is now to be increased from 1 November 1 978. This 1 .5 per cent surcharge on personal income tax will effectively strip the pockets of 55 per cent of Australians, thus wiping out any benefits they had received from the February tax cuts. The effect of the tax increase will be felt by the lower and middle income earner. For example, those earning $250 a week will be penalised 8 per cent and those earning $1,500 a week will be penalised less than 5 per cent. For the Government to state that there is a corresponding increase for all income earners is nonsense. Furthermore, the income tax increase is to be back dated to 1 July this year. This means that the benefits of the tax cuts will have applied for only five months, but the collection of this new tax will be done in eight months. That is, it will take eight months to collect a full year's tax. Perhaps the wealthy supporters of the Government can afford to pay less tax than anyone else but the poor, the low income earners and the middle income earners will certainly not be able to afford to have up to $3.88 slashed from their weekly budget. Or does the Government really think that life is easy for all Australians? The 
Government that was committed to lightening the burden of taxation has been grossly inconsistent and has widened the gap between the wealthy and the poor. It is a joke that the Treasurer can give a guarantee that the surcharge will be applicable only for this year. Irrespective of that, it is a year too much for the Australian people. 
asked the Minister for 
National Development, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
1 ) At what rate are persons from rural areas migrating to Australia's capital cities. 
What is the Government doing to curb this flow of country people to the cities. 
How effective have been measures taken by the Federal Government. 
Has the Treasurer seen a submission from the Association of Sheltered Workshops, New South Wales, on the effects of taxes on rehabilitees and sheltered workshop allowances? Is it a fact that when an individual earns more than $20 above the normal standard rate pension 50c in each dollar earned will be lost due to the means test and that, of the remaining SOc, 16.5c will be taken by tax, resulting in the Government taking back more than two-thirds of each additional dollar earned over $73.50? Will this mean that the Government will be taking back more then two-thirds of each additional dollar earned over $73.50? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 6 April 1978: 
1 ) Is it a fact that if present local consumption and production rates continue at current levels Australia will be relying on oil imports to meet twothirds of it oil needs by the mid-1980s. 
If so, what immediate measures is the Government proposing to take to avoid such a disastrous situation. 
Will the Prime Minister be announcing shortly the appointment of an independent committee to investigate and report on the effects of technological changes on employment in Australia? If so, has he given consideration to appointing the  President  of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission as  chairman  of the proposed committee? 
Does the Treasurer agree that it is not enough to block specific tax avoidance schemes while other schemes can be devised almost at will in the form of artificial or contrived financial transactions? As section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act has been emasculated by judicial interpretation, will the Treasurer consider introducing an amendment to provide that when the Commissioner of Taxation or the court is of the opinion that the transactions, dealings or financial affairs of a taxpayer are artifical or contrived, the tax liability of the taxpayer concerned may be determined according to the commercial realities? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. The  Chairman  of Qantas Airways Ltd,  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, who is spokesman for the airline, has admitted publicly that Qantas is discounting tickets overseas or, as the Minister himself described it - 
When coming from Sydney early this morning I was reading the  Daily Telegraph.  At page 3 I read an article entitled: 'Two-thirds of us ill, survey shows'. The author of the article was Warwick Costin, It stated: 
Sixty-three per cent of Australians are suffering from one or more illnesses, according to a health survey. 
I might say that this figure comes from the Australian Bureau of Statistics and is one of the many statistics that come into the offices of members of the Parliament which otherwise I might not have read. I went to the Parliamentary Library this afternoon and the Library was able to give me statistics that prove that the figures  Mr Costin  cites in the article are factual. The article continued: 
The results suggest that Australia has become a nation of wheezing crocks, with 63.6 per cent of the population suffering from at least one ailment. 
The survey, conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, was undertaken in the period from July 1977 to June 1978 and the results were released in Canberra at noon on 23 October 1978. As a sideline- I think the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  would appreciate this- the article stated that, if 63 per cent of the people in Australia are not in the best condition, the other 37 per cent are doctors who are laughing that they are lit. The article went on: 
An alarming 1.2 million women took common pain relievers in the two days before being interviewed. 
But prescriptions had been obtained by only 39 per cent of them. 
Women are by far the biggest sufferers of high blood pressure. 
I think politicians might suffer from this complaint as well, in view of the hours they put in. The article continued: 
More than half the adult population take pills or tonics almost daily and one child in three is already on some form of medication. 
Another surprise was that almost 49,000 children between the ages of one and five had not been given protection from polio (health authorities advise that babies should have received three doses of polio vaccine by the age of 12 months). 
However, a health department expert said the number of children not immunised, 3.8 per cent, was not large enough to cause concern. 
Nevertheless, 3.8 per cent of the child population have not been immunised.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  the Olympic Games are to be held in 1980 and Australia has a lot of sportsmen. We have professional tennis players and amateurs in rowing, fencing, weightlifting, swimming and athletics. I looked in the dictionary for a definition of the word 'amateur'. It stated that an 'amateur' is a lover of any art or science but not a professional. How will we compete against America and Russia. We have a lottery now in order to raise money to send our boys and girl, our athletes and other people to the Olympic Games. That is a . disgrace. Australia has a population of 14 million with 6 million in the work force, not counting the unemployed- I do not want to bring politics into this issue- and there are many pensioners. But we see that  63.6  per cent are sick, so this makes us a sick nation. 
Let us look at ourselves as politicians. What do we do around the place? We do a bit of jogging, walking, bowling and we play tennis and ride push bikes. We start work at 8 o'clock in the morning and we finish at 1 1 or 12 o'clock in the night. As a minimum we work from 9 a.m. and we finish at 1 1 p.m. We should show that we are leaders. When the new Parliament House is built- I am pleased that our friends opposite are non-political on this matter- we must have some facilities to look after ourselves. As politicians we are not healthy people. A chap in Sydney named Les Gronow has looked after me; he is a bit of an athlete. We are living on pills because we do not want to do hard work. People would rather have a few pills that will make them fit for the future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 5 April 1978: 
1 ) How many post offices are in the Electoral Division of Sydney. 
How many public telephones are in each post office. 
What renovations were carried out in each post office in the last 5 years and what was the cost of these renovations. 
Is the Government contemplating the painting and renovation of any of these post offices in 1 978. 
They can but how much does Medibank Private cost? They are paying almost $18 a month now from their pensions. Under the new rules they can go into a public hospital. If they have a pensioner health benefit card they are entitled to register themselves for the Commonwealth benefit and receive free consultations. Approximately 30 per cent of constituents in my electorate are pensioners. Although many people who are sick or who have families have to take out health insurance personally, I believe that it would be better for a pensioner to go into a public hospital although he would not have his choice of doctor. He would then be bulk billed. I had reservations but now I believe that by opting out of health insurance pensioners will get a better deal without spending a minimum of $ 1 8 per month. 
I have disagreed with the AMA. An article in the  Australian  of 14 November states: 
The Australian Medical Association has made an urgent plea to federal authorities for an immediate 20 per cent cut in next year's medical student intake . . . 
The AMA fears that more doctors, especially in metropolitan areas where there is an over supply, would increase competition for patients and lead to an escalation in health costs and a decline in medical standards. 
It is worried too, that Australia, with its 'unsatiable demand for medical care', is prepared to accept more doctors than it needs . . . 
We believe a 20 per cent reduction in medical school intake now is a sensible step and it's not going to cause a sudden shortage considering, the long lead time of six years- 
The AMA is again interfering in the actions of this Government. According to a survey taken in Australia in the last 12 months a doctor earns a minimum of approximately $70,000 a year. If the unions took action because of this, the Trade Practices Act would be invoked forthwith. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  asked questions about the medical profession during the adjournment debate last week. Medical students in future will not be able to get jobs. They will not have a chance to work in hospitals for the compulsory period of 12 months. The AMA is dictating to the Government. I know that the Minister for Health is sympathetic. Many times I have referred to him the cases of people in my area and he has been worried about them. But I am perturbed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is stepping on his toes and telling him how to run his Ministry. The Government has almost killed Medibank. I think that the AMA is interfering in government decisions. It has not given an opinion about HCF or whether people should take out insurance. It has not attempted to look after people. I hope the Minister will note my comments relating to the underprivileged. 
Another case to which I refer is a young girl who is a single parent. She had to pay $ 1 8 in cash to a doctor in my electorate. He asked her for the money at the time of the service. She had only $ 1 8 in the flat in which she was living. So there is injustice taking place through some in the medical profession. I wish we could have a full inquiry of the whole health scheme in Australia, as the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  did state in answer to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart). 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 7 March 1978: 
In order to provide services in connection with the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting held in Sydney, how many officers (a) from his Department and (b) from instrumentalities associated with his portfolio, travelled from their home base to another location. 
What was the cost of travel involved in these movements. 
What was the total cost of travelling and other allowances paid to these officers. 
I wish to speak tonight about unemployment and employment opportunities in the Sydney electorate. Three years ago when I became the member for the electorate of Sydney young people in particular were coming to see whether I could help them to become employed- As a former union official I was able at that stage to telephone local councils, my State parliamentary colleagues and other contacts in the building trades industry about jobs. I was able to achieve a measure of success and I was able to place some of these young people in good jobs. However this has now changed. Over the last 18 months young people have not been coming to me for jobs or assistance to obtain employment. Instead, they have been coming to me for assistance about receiving their social security cheques. They have been contacting my office immediately if the postman has not delivered their cheques on the due date. I have been told by people receiving unemployment benefit that field officers visit their homes and that at times they have been hounded because they have not been home and have been asked to explain where they were when the officers called and why they do not have jobs. The young are accepting unemployment as a normal occupation. They are solely dependent on their cheques to survive. There is no doubt that the young generation is a lost and disillusioned generation. This Government must be blamed for this injustice. 
I conduct interviews in my electorate every Monday. A cross-section of the community comes to see me. Some of them are factory workers, shop assistants, storemen, tradesmen and academics who are not satisfied with their current employment. I have no choice at this stage but to tell them to stay where they are and not to change jobs even though they would like more satisfying work. There has been an alarming increase in the number of young people who have left school at the third and fourth year levels and who are unable to find employment. These school leavers are between 15 and 17 years of age. The other school leavers are those in the fifth and sixth form levels. They are between 17 and 19 years of age. Those school leavers are taking the jobs that normally would go to the school leavers in the third and fourth year levels. To add to the dilemma, there are the school leavers who, having finished their education, have attempted to find employment during the summer holidays and, not having been successful, have returned to school and swelled the numbers of sixth formers. As a result the next year there will be an abnormally high number of school leavers, which in turn will increase the number of youth unemployed. 
A typical example is that of two boys in the area who have both concluded their sixth form and achieved good passes. Both have tried individually to find employment and have attended a number of interviews for jobs. Both have been unsuccessful. They have been job hunting for over three months. As a result, the boys are inseparable and refuse to go anywhere unless they are together, whether to job hunt or anything else. As a further result they have lost their confidence and motivation and are finding themselves at odds with their parents in the home. Their parents are disgruntled that their sons do not have jobs. In addition the boys are now applying for unemployment benefit and do not expect to work for a few years to come. The migrant children in my area find it hard to overcome some of the language barriers and they cannot compete with other school leavers for the jobs that are available. These children, just as much as other children, need to be trained and educated to cope with the technological changes occurring. 
I turn now to the position of the middle aged males and females in the work force. People in this group, through no fault of their own, are suddenly finding themselves in the dole queue in increasing numbers, which I find alarming. These people generally have been on good wages and have had the opportunity to work overtime to supplement their weekly wages. However, their jobs have been removed by the installation of new machinery and the lack of manpower planning by our industries during the last 20 years. A typical example that is applicable to migrants and middle aged workers is what has happened in the Balmain-Newtown area and in other areas of my electorate. Industries are closing down there and moving out to areas such as Blacktown or interstate. Whilst these people may not have been retrenched, they are unable to travel to these outer areas. They have established homes in the area and cannot afford either to move or to travel to work in those outer areas. Both the middle aged person and the migrant are severely affected. As a result they are forced to go onto unemployment benefit and face a future lifetime of being unemployed. It is too late to reeducate or retrain these people to cope with either the new technology or the new work environment. 
I refer to a typical example, that of a 20-year- old boy who has completed two years of a carpentry apprenticeship course as a full-time student. He was to enter third year on a third year wage. However, his employment was terminated because, as his employer put it, of rising costs. As a result he was unable to gain the practical experience and was unable to complete the apprenticeship and become a qualified tradesman. After six months of various types of work he is now working as a clerk. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The House should be clear as to the motion of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  It is: 
That this House calls on the Government to reintroduce immediately six-monthly indexation of social security and repatriation benefits. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  and I came to the Parliament at the same time, in 1975. He said tonight, when he threw the Bill down, that he would not introduce it. I say to the honourable member that the opportunity will be provided tomorrow morning to reintroduce the Bill that he has just thrown away. If he does that I believe that he will be respected on both sides of the chamber on that issue. I put that challenge to the honourable member because I think that he is a sincere type of person. 
The honourable member for Franklin, in common with the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  said over the Christmas and New Year period that he was willing to bring in such a measure and fight it through his Party. He is entitled to do that and I respect him for it. At this stage I think he has made many members of this House begin to think. Certainly he has worried his own Liberal-National Country Party Government. It has come to the stage where tomorrow possibly a million pensioners will be reading and discussing the  Hansard  report of this debate. For them it involves an increase of $2.60 a week at a total cost of approximately $27m in the six-month period and $5 4m or $5 6m in the 12-month period. 
The honourable member for Chifley is correct. We will give him that opportunity. He is doing the same as I amasking him to reconsider. 
We are discussing the expenditure of $2 7m. It involves a matter of conscience about which the Liberal-National Country Party coalition should be thinking tonight. Will they, in June or July of this year, be willing to accept a wage rise? It makes one think. I have my notes in front of me but I am changing my style because waiting for a couple of hours to speak and listening to the debate has made me think: Will they accept their wage rise? At every opportunity I have agreed to fight for the underdog. Approximately 27 per cent of my electorate or 74,000 persons, are pensioners. In that respect I am in the same position as that of the honourable member for Denison and the honourable member for Franklin, who must have such considerations in the back of their minds. I have voted consistently since 1975. It is up to us. It is a big issue. We must ask: How could we accept a wage rise? How could LiberalNational Country Party members in view of what they are doing to the pensioners accept a wage rise. 
The Labor Party is all right. I have been consistent in my views on wage indexation and pensioners. How honourable members opposite will vote tonight will be on their conscience. At this stage the indication is that the honourable member for Franklin, the honourable member for Denison and the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Burns)  will cross the floor. That is the feeling I am receiving. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil),  from what he has said in Parliament in the last 12 months, must also come across. He has many pensioners in his electorate. It is a conscience vote. The pensioners will remember what happens. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will purchase two VIP jets- and rightly so, I suppose, for security reasons- at a cost of $17m and $20m. A quarter of a million dollars will be needed to carry out extensions to Canberra airport. Why could not we do away with that proposal for 12 months? Why could the Government not say that it will put it in another package and wait until the 1979 Budget? The Government will not do so. 
The people of Australia will say to us that we are hypocrites. The honourable member for Franklin in his wisdom has made us think. This will be the downfall of the Liberal-National Country Party Government. It has been going bad for three years. This will be the point that will show that it has no brains or political nouse What member would miss $2.60 or $3 a week that the pensioners would receive? None of us would. The pensioners would miss it. In my own area the pensioners are paying $45 or $50 for a room or flat. They still have to buy groceries from the corner store. They receive no indexation or wage rises. They have no extra coming in at all. They will receive a small increase probably in 12 months' time from the 1979 Budget. The Government is telling the pensioners that they should not worry and that the half-yearly indexation will be invoked in 12 months time. This is part of the injustice. I will keep on saying it because I mean it: How can we accept a wage rise when honourable members opposite will not give the pensioners an increase of $2.60 or $3.00 a week? 
As the honourable member said, it is our problem. It is the problem of honourable members opposite. They are against giving the rise. The honourable member for Franklin should resubmit this Bill. He is entitled to do so. It will give the opportunity for the Government to get off the hook. Members opposite as politicians should be worried about the people in their electorates. They should come up to members opposite after the vote is taken tonight and denounce them. I have here a petition. I hope that no member of the Liberal Party or National Country Party will present a similar one tomorrow. If any member presents a petition of this type tomorrow he will be a hypocrite. It might be handy to refer to the petition. It is authorised by the Australian Pensioners Federation whose National  President  is  Mr Alan  Wilson. The National Honorary Secretary is  Mrs Irene  Ellis and the National Honorary Treasurer is  Mrs S.  Walker! The petition reads: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
That was an election promise by the Prime Minister. The petition continues: 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension payments in the autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of AWE. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Other members will have similar petitions tomorrow. If any honourable member opposite presents such a petition he will show himself to be a hypocrite. They should tell the pensioners who have been lobbying in Parliament House today and who have lobbyed because of the last Budget and this Budget that they do not agree to a rise for pensioners. Honourable members opposite should tell the truth. They have been saying the opposite. They say that they agree with the proposal but that the Cabinet will not agree. The caucus of the Liberal and National Country Party is the same as ours. It has stood over two Tasmanians and one Victorian tonight. It has stood over them because its members are frightened to buck the system. 
How does anyone get anything out of the Liberal-National Country Party Government? How would honourable members opposite know what it is like to battle? They attack the unions and the pensioners. They attack people who need money. They attack the Aboriginals and any person who is trying to make a decent living. They attack the family. They are hypocritical. They have said many times that they believe in the family; yet no encouragement is given for a family person at all in Australia today. Members of the National Country Party are the greatest hypocrites of the lot. They worry about their cattle more than they worry about people. They have sold out to the multinationals. They should not talk. There are so few of them. They have sold everything they believed in, right down the drain. 
The Prime Minister would not get a vote in my electorate. A challenge was made by the honourable member for Franklin today that  Senator Ken  Wriedt should stand for the seat of Franklin. I would like to see the Prime Minister give away his seat and see how he would go in the electorate of Sydney. I put that challenge. The honourable member for Franklin does not understand. Honourable members opposite do not understand what the people are about. They were born in ivory towers. They were born with money. All they have to do is live with money and make deals with moneyed people. They would not know what it is all about not to have enough money to pay their medical bills. They would not have any idea how hard it is to pay children's school fees and to dress them correctly. They would not know how dedicated are the pensioners in the electorate of Sydney. They have the main meal of the day in a welfare centre. They then go back to the room in which they live. They are dedicated. These are the people who went to war and who fought for us. These are the people who obtained the conditions which we have today. What are honourable members opposite doing about it? The pensioners are being sacrificed. 
I state again that the honourable member for Franklin has made us think. He does not have the numbers tonight. It appears that three honourable members will cross the floor. The Bill that he prepared in November 1978 has been ready for all these months. The Prime Minister must have known. The Ministers have known. The honourable member for Franklin has been embarrassing us for a couple of months. I thought that he was right. Pensioners in my own electorate said that the honourable member for Franklin had a lot of guts. They said that he would buck the Government, cross the floor and be an Independent member from Tasmania. I give him credit for that. He has to stick to his principle. How can he go back into his party room after taking this action? I respect him. We both entered Parliament at the same time. I say for the benefit of members of the National Country Party and the Liberal Party: Think. Members of the Liberal and National Country parties cannot accept a wage rise if the pensioners do not get an extra $2.60 a week. 
They are telegrams. These are the ones I was looking for. They read: 
If you vote for the Lusher amendment you will lose our votes. 
Randerson and W. Oliver, Glebe 
If you vote for Lusher amendment you lose my vote. 
-I am speaking in support of the Lusher motion. The debate this afternoon and tonight on this most important issue of the right to terminate pregnancy has again opened a Pandora's box. All of the speakers who have taken part in the debate have had one thing in common- namely, the protection of the woman and the child. In their own way they have their own personal feelings about the funding of pregnancy termination, or abortion, under the medical benefits schedule. I think that this entitlement, which was invoked by the Labor Government under the Medibank arrangements in 1973-74, has been a help to women over the years. The entitlement was inserted in the medical benefits schedule by the Medical Schedule Revision Committee on which the Australian Medical Association and the Government are represented. I wonder why the AMA has come out so strongly against the Lusher motion. Is it worried that the confidence between patient and doctor will be broken or is it worried about financial gains? 
I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a copy of a letter from the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  dealing with medical benefits for abortion, which has been sent to all honourable members, together with a copy of a letter to the Minister from  Mr G.  D. Repin, the Secretary General of the Australian Medical Association. 
Leave granted. 

 The documents read as follows- 

Minister for Health 
Parliament House, 
Canberra, A.C.T.2600 6 March 1979 
My dear Member, 
Medical Benefits for Abortion 
I attach a copy of a telex from the Australian Medical Association. 
I have been authorised by the AMA to circulate the text to Honourable Members for their information so that they have the benefit of the Association 's views. 
Yours sincerely, 
I would like to refer to a few articles in volume 3 of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. At paragraph 99 on page 153 of the report under the heading Abortion and contraception', the following comment is made: 
There is an agreed need to reduce the number of abortions by encouraging better contraceptive facilities and practices. There is a strong fear in some that if abortion were more readily available it would be seen as an alternative to proper contraceptive practices. Some of our submissions put the view that liberal abortion laws would lead to disregard of family planning services ... a disturbing number of abortions are carried out where liberal laws exist; in fact there is evidence from all over the world that where liberal laws regarding abortion exist, there is disregard of family planning services. 
Again there is an inference that one can do everything to help a person but if cognizance is not taken of services we will be back to square one once more. Paragraph 118 on page 157, under the heading 'Counselling', states: 
The Lane Committee concluded that some women would find the burden of making their own decision unsupported a heavy one, and might be vulnerable to pressure from parents, husbands or boyfriends. Some of our submissions stressed the need for skilled counselling for a woman seeking abortion. It is important for her to discuss the situation fully with an impartial person to avoid the influence of family and other pressure. The woman often needs help in considering the options which are available to her in her situation and in exploring her own feelings. She may need advice on contraception and, if the abortion proceeds, an opportunity for further counselling. 
Paragraph 1 1 9 on the same page states: 
It is important that proper counselling services be established and supported to provide helpful, non-directive counselling for women seeking an abortion, should they require it. We do not consider that counselling should be a compulsory legal requirement; it is more important to ensure that the facilities are provided. Some suggest that such services should be independent of abortion services. While it would be ideal to provide independent counselling services, it would not be practicable or desirable that these should replace existing counselling services at abortion clinics. Many women might not get any counselling at all unless the services were attached to the clinic. The important thing is to ensure high standards and adequate facilities. 
I am just going through the main parts of the report of the Royal Commission on Human Relationships. On page 168, under the heading Unsafe procedures; lack of facilities and expertise', paragraph 188 states: 
A typical complaint was about dirty, unhygienic premises. Others concerned the use of dangerous methods of abortion, such as inserting something into the uterus and sending the patient away to miscarry elsewhere. 
Paragraph 1 89 on the same page states in part: 
A respondent to the Commission's 'unwanted pregnancy phone-in 'said: 
At the abortionist's rooms I felt I was treated terribly. It was a gruesome, dirty room in a dirty street. I had it done at the abortionist's (brought on) and the actual miscarriage occurred in a hotel room . . . I felt very sick for a long time, and emotionally upset. The whole thing was so sordid and horrid. 
On page 202, under the heading 'Consequences of abortion- Introduction ', paragraph 384 states: 
The Commission's terms of reference require us to report on: 
the social, economic, psychological and medical pressures on women in determining whether to proceed with unplanned or unwanted pregnancies, having regard to: 
. . . the social, psychological and medical results of termination of, or and failure to terminate such pregnancies. 
Paragraph 385 on the same page states: 
We received a great deal of conflicting evidence on the subject of abortion and its effects, both in written submissions and in oral evidence.  Dr Hilgers,  Assistant Professor of the Department of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, St Louis University, School of Medicine, gave lengthy evidence to the Commission in which he stressed the medical hazards of legally induced abortion. He quoted statistics on abortionrelated maternal mortality and morbidity, complications in later pregnancies and psychological complications. He referred to a 1970 report by the RCOG which called for a study of the long-term hazards of abortion. A WHO report on long-term consequences is due for publication in 1 977. 
I hope that has been finalised. I would like to quote some correspondence I received as the member for Sydney. I will read first the reply I sent to the letters I have received from approximately 300 to 400 constituents in the area. I have received 100 to 120 letters and telegrams in the last two days. The letter I sent to my constituents read: 
I wish to acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding abortion. 
You may not be aware that any legislation concerning abortion is a conscience vote by the individual Members in the House of Representatives and Senate. 
My personal feeling is that in protection of Mother and Child, there should be a continuing responsibility by Governments in regard to family allowance, medical services, child care, education and housing, etc. 
I am appalled that in a country like Australia, that is experiencing zero population there is no encouragement of family life. I think family life is essential for the stability of our nation. 
When debating this legislation I am sure that my Parliamentary colleagues will consider all the factors and vote accordingly, however, as I have stated above, abortion is a conscience vote. 
As the Member for the Electorate of Sydney, I will certainly always vote against abortion, I have in the past and will continue to strongly oppose any move to legalise abortion in Australia. 
I think I should read out some telegrams I have received which express an opposite point of view. They read: 
Oppose Lusher motion encourages backyard abortion and unwanted children. Medibank a basic right. 64 concerned Swinburne staff 
Lusher motion discriminatory against women and the poor creates dangerous precedent. Vote no. 
That is right. The main thing I am trying to convey to honourable members is that both those gentlemen are from the electorate of Sydney and both their cathedrals are in Sydney. 
The reason I have come out so seriously on an issue that is going to affect so many people in the electorate of Sydney is that for many years to come I will have to stand up and be counted because of the way I will vote. A stand has to be taken. I am worried like any other parent is worried about 60,000 unborn children being aborted. In a country of zero population growth and a population of 14 million people we are worried about our family life. There is also the other side. I have a secretary and an assistant secretary in my office and they are divided in opinion like many people in Australia. I am pleased to say that my wife is sympathetic with me and I suppose that is the main thing. We have 8 children and sometimes I wonder how we found the money to be married. After we were married we had 8 beautiful children and we are grandparents. I have survived. 
What is wrong with our country? What is wrong with us as legislators? Why have these women and men thrown in the towel? Why are we not helping them to rear a family and build a good life and to have a happy home together? Naturally, the States will be involved. Some of my friends and comrades on this side of the House have had differences of opinion on this issue. One has to think when one is one out on an issue. I know it could be a ten year fight. I think to myself that now I am involved I will see that the family will be looked after. I think all honourable members will agree with that. I am disgusted that in a country like Australia there are 60,000 known abortions a year. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the Tripartite Committee on Asbestos constituted by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
2 ) What are the terms of reference of the Committee. 
Who are the members of the Committee and who do they represent. 
When and where has the Committee met. 
Has any action (a) been taken or (b) not been taken by any member of the Working Party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation which has jeopardised the future activities of the Committee in formulating recommendations on the control of asbestos-related diseases. 
If so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to ensure that the Committee can continue with its inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the working party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation established. 
By whom was it established. 
) What are its terms of reference. 
Who are the members of the working party and who do they represent. 
When and where has the working party met. 
Has any action (a) been taken or (b) not been taken by any member of the working party which has jeopardised its future or reduced the prospects of the presentation of a report. 
Would any report assist in insuring national action to improve health and safety legislation for the protection of workers; if so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to solve the stalemate at present confronting the working party. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that over the last four years Commonwealth subsidy to community health services has decreased from 90 per cent to 50 per cent? Is it further a fact that the meagre amounts of money made available by the Commonwealth to this worthy cause of health care for the people of Australia will again be substantially cut in the near future? Will the Minister alleviate the tension felt by employees and patients in every State by giving a positive reply? 
-I too support the motion moved by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supported by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and the Leader of the National Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  I would like to say a few kind words on behalf of my departed colleague, Francis Eugene Stewart, whom his friends knew as Frank Stewart.  His  name was most respected in his electorate of Grayndler and in his previous electorate of Lang. As other speakers have said today, our condolences go to his wife, Maureen, his son, his daughters, his mother, brother and sisters and those of his friends most dear to him. Previous speakers including the Prime Minister have said, amongst other things, that Frank Stewart was a great Australian and politician. He showed these qualities when he represented his electorate for the past 26 years. He came to Parliament as a young man of 3 1 years of age. In those days that was a young age to be a member of Parliament. I must convey to his wife Maureen and his family the thought that many times when he should have been at home he was in the Parliament looking after Australians. 
Frank was very good to me as a member of Parliament for the last four years. Although there were only a few years difference in our ages, Frank used to treat me like a son, sometimes by abusing me for saying many things which I should not have said. He used to take me in- I was in trouble a few times- and tell me how to put a question on notice and how to ask a question without notice without being ruled out of order. As a new member of Parliament I well appreciated his advice. I remember Frank asking me one day about my background and about my father who was a trade union official like his own father. I told him the three main principles of the old Irish Catholic. He laughed and said that he had thought of them but had not heard them expressed that way previously. My father used to say that the three main things a man had to do in life were to go to mass, be a member of the trade union movement and be a member of the Labor Party. I think that was Frank's philosophy. It is a philosophy that has been adopted by many members of the Labor Party. 
Frank was going to take a trip as a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Union with his wife, Maureen, together with me and my wife, Pat. We were to leave on 13 September for a few weeks. He told me that his wife, Maureen, had not been away since 1963. She had agreed to leave the family and take a few weeks to see the world. We were to meet last week to have dinner and work out the itinerary. Not many people know this. Frank said that this would be his last trip as he was getting older. He said that after another couple of terms he would think about retiring. I shall read an extract from the  Catholic Weekly  in which Cardinal  Sir James  Freeman paid a tribute to Frank Stewart. He said: 

 Mr Frank Stewart, besides being a loving husband and father, was a man who through all the vicissitudes of public life was clear in his principles and courageous in upholding them. 
Just as no one could doubt his sincerity, so no one could doubt his moral courage. 
In the line of duty he often followed a course that was not always easy and not always rewarding in a popular sense. 
But he was definite in his attitude and courageous in his manner of maintaining it. 
No doubt, like all men in the public arena, he had his critics. 
But it is doubtful if he had any real enemies. 
Courage and integrity are virtues that are not to be despised. 
May he rest in peace. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the working party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation established. 
By whom was it established. 
) What are its terms of reference. 
Who are the members of the working party and who do they represent. 
When and where has the working party met. 
Has any action 
been taken, or 
not been taken, by any member of the working party which has jeopardised its future or reduced the prospects of the presentation of a report. 
Would any report assist in insuring national action to improve health and safety legislation for the protection of workers; if so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to solve the stalemate at present confronting the working party 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the Tripartite Committee on Asbestos constituted by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What are the terms of reference of the committee. 
Who are the members of the committee and who do they represent. 
When and where has the committee met. 
Has any action (a) been taken or (b) not been taken by any member of the Working Party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation which has jeopardised the future activities of the committee in formulating recommendations on the control of asbestos-related diseases. 
If so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to insure that the committee can continue with its inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the tripartite committee on asbestos constituted by the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What are the terms of reference of the committee. 
Who are the members of the committee and who do they represent. 
When and where has the committee met. 
Has any action (a) been taken or (b) not been taken by any member of the Working Party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation which has jeopardised the future activities of the committee in formulating recommendations on the control of asbestos-related diseases. 
If so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to ensure that the committee can continue with its inquiry. 
asked the Minister for Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) When was the working party on Occupational Health and Safety Legislation established. 
) By whom was it established. 
) What are its terms of reference. 
Who are the members of the working party and who do they represent. 
5 ) When and where has the working party met. 
Has any action (a) been taken or (b) not been taken by any member of the working party which has jeopardised its future or reduced the prospects of the presentation of a report. 
Would any report assist in insuring national action to improve health and safety legislation for the protection of workers; if so, what action has he taken, in co-operation with other interested Ministers, to solve the stalemate at present confronting the working party. 

 - Mr Speaker, I will have to be guided by you. My question should be directed to the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs but he is not in the chamber. It could be directed to the Prime Minister or to the Minister for Industrial Relations. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Treasurer aware of the recent spate of bonus share issues which allow professional share traders to avoid tax on a large scale? As an illustration I refer to the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd one-for-five bonus issue of 12 April and point out that if a professional trader bought a large enough parcel of shares before the bonus issue took place he would be in a position to wipe out in 24 hours his total tax liability for the year. Is the Treasurer aware of, and if so, what significance does he place on, the fact that 35,000 BHP shares were traded in Sydney on 10 April, and 160,000 on 1 1 April? What is his estimate of tax revenue lost to the Government by this method of avoidance and what steps will he take to end such a blatant avoidance scheme? 
I ask the Prime Minister whether, in answer to a question on 1 March 1979 about whether the income tax surcharge was still a temporary measure for 1978-79 only, he told this Parliament: 
Quite plainly, that commitment stands. 
Does it still stand? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many registered nursing homes were there in the Electoral Division of Sydney during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) the period 1 July 1978 to31 March 1979. 
Who owned these homes. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I ask whether on 27 November 1975 he stated. 
We will fully index personal income tax for inflation over three years. It will make government more honest with your money. 
In view of last week's decision not to implement his promise of full indexation after 1 July, does the Prime Minister acknowledge that his Government is less than honest? 
Tonight I would like to discuss the most important issue that has affected my electorate for the last few years. I refer to the extension of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. On Sunday, 27 May 1 979, 1, together with the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party- the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)-  attended a protest meeting on that subject. Also in attendance were certain members of the New South Wales Parliament, namely,  Mr Laurie  Brereton, the honourable member for Heffron;  Mr Brian  Bannon, the honourable member for Rockdale; and  Mr Tom  Cahill, the honourable member for Marrickville. I am a bit disappointed that no Federal or State member of the Liberal Party of Australia was in attendance. I suppose that they are keeping out of the trouble spots but they will have to take sides sooner or later. Their electors will make their decisions and those members will have to be counted. 
The protest meeting was at the Coronation Hall at Mascot. It was the fifth meeting on this subject that I and other members of the Labor Party have attended in the last seven months. As most honourable members would know, the meeting concerned the proposed extension of the runway at Sydney International Airport. Also in attendance at the meeting were over 2,000 residents. There were also many Mayors, or their representatives, of municipalities around Sydney. In attendance were the Mayors of Leichhardt, South Sydney, Marrickville, Botany, Rockdale, Hurstville, Drummoyne, Ashfield, Waverley and Kogarah. I could have missed out a few mayors or municipalities that were represented. That list is all I have. They represent approximately half a million ratepayers. The rates that those people pay amount to approximately $500m. The people in these municipalities live in the vicinity of the path of the proposed extension of the airport runway. The also live in the path of the existing extension. 
With these few words I take umbrage at an editorial in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 28 
May 1979. It is headed 'Airport hot air'. We all read the leaders of newspapers to find out what is going on around Sydney. I do not know if the reporter who reported this article is a new reporter or just a person who lives at Galston or on the north side of Sydney. In mentioning the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party  (Mr Bowen)  who is the honourable member for Kingsford Smith, the editorial reads as follows: 
His scare tactics in hinting at the possibility of a repetition, over Sydney, of the tragic crash at Chicago airport on Saturday were particularly regrettable. His remarks to the Mascot protest meeting were well below the level of responsibility expected of a senior ALP spokesman. 
I am pleased that the editorial stated this. It continues: 

 Mr Bowen is, of course, entitled to his opinion about the desirability, or otherwise, of expanding the present airport at Mascot. Early this year, he called for the construction of a new airport outside Sydney. That is a defensible view. But he is not entitled to try to impose his opinion on everybody else by inciting industrial action. 
He did not say anything about industrial action. I was at the meeting and I spoke also. The article continues: 
Not all members of the unions potentially involved will be happy with the idea, especially in the depressed state of the construction industry. The future of Sydney as Australia's most important international airport, with all that this implies, must also be taken into consideration. 
It has to be remembered that Mascot, the site of yesterday's protest meeting, is in the heart of  Mr Bowen  's own Federal electorate of Kingsford Smith; 
Why would he not look after the people he is representing? Why should he not go to a meeting to talk about a proposed extension? The article continues: and that all of the nine State seats in the vicinity of Sydney airport are held by Labor. It is inexcusable that  Mr Bowen,  and others of like mind or with the same political interests, should condone the performance of about 300 motorists - 
I must say those motorists went out and made the decision to do what they did. Other members and I were looking after our electorates. The honourable member for Kingsford Smith and I made the decision that on the - 
I refer to the proposed extension of the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport and to a letter from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  He said: 
Dear  Mr McMahon, 
The petition received by the House of Representatives on 3 May 1979, which you lodged on behalf of residents and workers in the Newtown area, has been passed to me for consideration. 
As you are aware, a joint committee of Commonwealth and State officials is investigating the wide range of possible development and other options which could provide adequate air transport facilities in the Sydney region over the next 25 years. Under its terms of reference the joint committee is required to take into account all relevant factorseconomic, financial, social, technical, operational, environmental, land use and community attitudes. Moreover, the studies undertaken should satisfy the requirements of applicable Commonwealth and State environmental protection legislation. 
The joint committee is now in the process of concluding its consideration of all the inputs to the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney study, including submissions from the public. 
The Committee will be submitting its recommendations to both the Commonwealth and New South Wales Governments. Action on any recommendation will, of course, be a matter for discussion and decision by the two Governments. 
I have noted the concern of people in the Newtown area regarding the possible increase in noise and traffic as a result of new runway development at Kingsford Smith Airport, and have made the Commonwealth/State committee aware of the petition. 
Your sincerely, PETER NIXON 
I should like to read also an article 'Protest Over Runway Plan' which appeared in the  Daily Telegraph  on Monday, 28 May 1 979. It said: 
The demonstrators were local residents protesting planned extensions to runways at Mascot. 
Residents from all suburbs in the airport area had earlier attended a protest meeing at Coronation Hall, Mascot. 
They agreed to again demonstrate at the airport on Sunday, 1 July. 
The alternative to extending present runways is to build another airport. 
A recommendation made at a meeting on Sunday was that Sydney airport be closed on Sunday, I July 1979. 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister recall - 

 Government members interjecting- 

asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many (a) temporary and (b) permanent staff are currently located at the Department of Social Security offices at 176 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, NSW. 
Where in the Electoral Division of Sydney are other Department of Social Security offices located and how many 
temporary and (b) permanent staff are there in each office. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that long-standing unemployable persons will be taken off unemployment benefits. 
If so, under which social security benefit will they be categorised and when will this come into effect. 
Did the Minister for National Development give a background briefing for selected journalists last Thursday night? Was this the third such briefing in a fortnight to explain his role and statement on the future of the Great Barrier Reef? Were selected extracts from ministerial correspondence disclosed to journalists at this briefing? Did the Thursday night briefing follow a meeting in the afternoon between himself and the Prime Minister to discuss an answer which the Minister gave this House on Thursday morning? 
I too congratulate the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  on extending the domiciliary nursing care benefit. It is an humane decision. I also congratulate the Australian Labor Party shadow Minister for Health, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  because the honourable member and I spoke to the Minister - 
That is right. Approximately three years ago I spoke to the Minister about two cases in the electorate of Sydney. One involved a blind person who was being looked after by her daughter and the other involed a woman 99 years of age who was being looked after by a daughter 60-odd years of age. Because the legislation provided that the nursing sister had to make two visits a week, these people were denied the benefit of $2 a day. I went to see the Minister while he was at a Christmas function. I knocked on the door and again asked whether there was any possible chance of these two people being looked after. There was publicity about this matter. I am pleased to say that the Minister was sympathetic. The legislation is now being changed to give all people a benefit. 
It might have taken three years but I congratulate the Minister because he was trying to do his best. Although the benefit is only $2 a day, it saved many people from having to go into nursing homes. As has been stated by members on both sides, the decision to extend the benefit is an humane action. It will give people a chance to look after their loved mothers or fathers at home rather than sending them to a nursing home. We should be looking after older people. I congratulate the Minister. 
Proposed new clause agreed to. 
Bill, as amended, agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
asked the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice, on 29 May 1979: 
What sums have been allocated under the Home Savings Grants Scheme since its inception. 
What areas in each Commonwealth electoral division in each State have received the grant. 
How many persons in each Commonwealth electoral division have applied for the grant. 
How many persons in each Commonwealth electoral division (a) have received the grant and (b) are still on the waiting list. 
What is the average age of couples who (a) have applied for the grant and ( b) are still on the waiting list. 
What effect will the new Budget scheme have on (a) funds to be allocated to the scheme and (b) those on the waiting list for the grant. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 May 1 979: 
How many persons have been (a) granted and (b) refused political asylum in Australia during the period I January 1975 to 30 April 1979. 
From which countries did each person originate. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many migrants who entered Australia during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) the period 1 July 1978 to 31 March 1979, were skilled (i) plumbers, (ii) carpenters and (iii) electricians. 
) From which countries did these migrants come. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) What are the names of the: 
associations, 
organisations and 
individuals within the Electoral Division of Sydney that- 
have received grants-in-aid since its inception and 
have been refused grants-in-aid. 
What sum was granted to each successful applicant: 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Which properties in the States are owned (a) by the Commonwealth Government and (b) jointly by the Commonwealth Government and the respective State Governments. 
Which properties were occupied (a) by the Commonwealth Government and (b) jointly by the Commonwealth Government and the respective State Governments during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) the period 1 July 1978 to date. 
What properties owned (a) by the Commonwealth Government and (b) jointly by the Commonwealth Government and the respective State Governments were either vacant or occupied by tenants during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1 977-78 and (iii) the period 1 July 1 978 to date. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) How many fiancees have entered Australia from (a) Italy, (b) Greece and (c) Lebanon during (i) 1976-77, (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) the period 1 July 1978 to 31 March 1979. 
How many were (a) refused entry and (b) married their fiancees during the same period. 
How many fiancees have been deported during (a) 1976-77, (b) 1977-78 and (c) the period 1 July 1978 to 31 March 1 979 and for what reason. 
What was the average age of those persons referred to inparts(l),(2)and(3). 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to the Bureau of Transport Economics finding that 64 per cent of direct and indirect expenditure on roads goes to the employment of labour, and the Australian Council of Local Government Association's recent statement that road work programs could usefully employ day labour resources if more funds were made available to local government? In view of these facts, will the Minister support the establishment of an urgent program of increased Federal road funding to improve the deplorable state of our roads and generate more jobs in regional areas? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Government is procuring from the United States two armour-plated Cadillacs for the Prime Minister's use? If so, what has prompted this decision to abandon the Prime Minister's previously expressed policy of using a locally produced car, that is, the policy that led him to dispose of the official Mercedes-Benz in favour of a Holden Statesman limousine? Is it a fact that the new vehicles will cost $60,000 each in the United States? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Defence. I would like to be protected on this one. I refer him to his assurance in this House on 20 September that the Australian taxpayer was completely protected by way of indemnity against the overweight of the lead ship HMAS  Fremantle.  Does the same indemnity extend to the subsequent three boats which are being built in Australia and which the Minister indicated might also be overweight? If not, why was the decision made to go ahead with Australian construction before the launching and proving of the Australian prototype? 
I refer the Minister for Transport to his announcement that the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee will present its final report by 14 December this year. I ask the Minister why this report is two years overdue and why it was necessary for the Committee to release 20 discussion papers in the three years it has been in existence? Is the Minister aware of any other committee of inquiry which has taken so long to complete its investigations that it has earned its own entry in the phone book? Will the Minister confirm that the Government has already made its decision that it will expand Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, against the wishes of the New South Wales Government, to accommodate future needs, rather than build a second airport? Did the Minister stipulate the date of 14 December by which the MANS Committee has to finalise its report knowing that he could then make his decision known while this Parliament is in recess? 
