I ask the Minister for Civil Aviation whether he is aware that a printed Trans-Australia Airlines timetable of air services to and from Canberra omits any mention of air services to Tasmania, although the timetable indicates the services available to Perth via Melbourne, to Adelaide via Melbourne and to all the other States. Is the Minister also aware that the same printed timetable sets out that telephone bookings can be made by ringing numbers in the various capital cities but Hobart is not mentioned? Can the Minister find out whether the omission of details of air services to Tasmania by TAA is a premeditated snub to Tasmanians, or whether the previously scheduled services have indeed ceased and the Hobart booking office has been or is to be closed down? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Will the Minister seek a ruling or an opinion from his learned colleague as to whether it would be necessary or wise for senators who become members of a Senate select committee on stock exchanges and share dealings in Australia to sell any shares held by them and to refrain from dealing in shares throughout the life of the committee? Could an opinion on this matter be given to the Senate prior to the debate on the proposed motion to set up such a Committee? 
1 address a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If it is wrong, as has been implied by an Australian Labor Party senator, for an Australian owned oil company to use the services of an overseas controlled advertising and public relations company, will the Minister state whether it is a fact that for some years the Australian Labor Party has followed the practice of employing an overseas controlled public relations and advertising company? If it is a fact, is it to be taken that the Labor Party realises that it is not an Australian owned political party? 
I address my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. If and when the Prime Minister and the Premiers again discuss the advisability of the other Australian States following Tasmania in enjoying daylight saving in the summer months, will the Commonwealth Government impress upon the Premiers of the other States the opinion of the Australian Chamber of Automotive Industries that daylight saving is an important road safety factor in that the majority of accidents occur during the present eastern standard time evening peak hour traffic period and that that period would not be in operation with daylight saving? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service, who knows full well the importance to Tasmanian business interests and the tourist industry of the passengercargo service supposed to be provided by the 'Empress of Australia', inform the Senate as to what action is being taken or can be taken by Commonwealth authorities to end the industrial trouble which has caused the cessation of the SydneyTasmania passenger service by this very fine and popular vessel? 
In the 17 years that I have been privileged to be in the Senate I have never on any night during a debate on a motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply witnessed such an extraordinary performance by a leader of the Opposition let alone on a night on which the proceedings of this honourable House were being broadcast to the nation. I believe that it was an exercise of most inept leadership which will be long remembered. On the 11th day of March, 8 days after  His Excellency  the Governor-General read the Speech on which is based this debate on the motion for the Address-in-Reply, and some few days after the Australian Democratic Labor Party had placed before the Senate an amendment and the reasons why it was moving the amendment, in came the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  the leader of the alternative government, with a further amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. I do not propose to read the amendment. I believe that it is one of the most extraordinarily stupidly worded amendments that have been proposed by any Party. It lacks sincerity; it lacks reasons; it lacks facts; and it is not based on truth or good government. Yet this comes from the leader of the alternative government, or that section of it which is in this Parliament. 
How I remember the days of  Senator McKenna,  that good Tasmanian and honoured statesman. He would have been at this Government from the bounce of the ball with a clear cut, precise and hard to answer speech. He would have been answered because we always have had facts on our side. But  Senator McKenna  with his brilliance, his leadership and his team behind him was the leader of a formidable opposition. I do not want to crawl to anyone but I believe, as I am mentioning names, that it is fair to say that we had a similar experience when  Senator Willesee  was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate for all too short a term. But what have we seen today? Immediately after announcing the proposed amendment criticising the Government the Leader of the Opposition turned his back on you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  a habit to which we in this chamber have grown accustomed since his rise to the ranks of command of the Australian Labor Party. He turned his back on you,  Sir, and  he turned his back on us. We are quite accustomed to having him run away from us. 
What did he do on this occasion? Looking at the members of his Party - whether to see if the knives were coming in from the back, I do not know - scorning the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party - the only people he knows who can help him defeat this Government for noone else will help him, his only hope for salvation, his only opportunity to get something of the Labor Party's ideas into the statute book or to win a vote on a resolution or a motion - he immediately attacked the members of the DLP personally, not on policy but personally and on behaviour. Then he criticised them for not voting with the Australian Labor Party in times past when the ALP has moved either to defeat or to amend Bills presented by the Government. Does not the Leader of the Opposition know enough about the parliamentary and political history of this country to know that those who now are members of the DLP left the Labor Party because they could not agree with its policies, its behaviour or the friends with whom its heirarchy met and mixed? And  Senator Murphy  growls at them for not supporting him in his time of need. The future will tell how inept has been this show tonight of what should have been leadership. 
Then,  Mr President,  it appeared, from the back view that we and the Acting  Deputy President  had, that the Leader of the Opposition intended to develop an argument against some alleged misdeed of the Government, but that seemed to fade out and it appeared that he remembered that he had proposed an amendment to the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply and was about to tell us what he, the spokesman in this place for the alternative government, would do in relation to certain matters mentioned in the proposed amendment. But then he faded away from that too. So I find that I, on behalf of the Government, have nothing to answer in any of the accusations or the points of policy to which the Leader of the Opposition addressed himself. Therefore I propose to go on in my own appointed way. When I knew that by the luck or misfortune of the draw I was to follow the Leader of the Opposition, I felt that my prepared speech notes would be wasted and that i would have a formidible speech to answer in an effort, from the back bench, to reply to the Leader of the Opposition. I believe that readers of Hansard in the future and anyone who is still listening, as well as members of this chamber, will realise that I speak the truth when I say that there is not an amendment worthy of the name to be answered; nor was there any factual statement in the speech of the Leader of the Opposition in which I put any truth and which I believe requires a reply on behalf of the Government. 
Like all honourable senators who have participated in this debate, 1 should like at this stage to reaffirm my loyalty to  Her  Majesty the Queen and to join with the many expressions of pleasure that parts of Australia will be honoured and thrilled with a royal visit in this our bi-centenary year. Coming from the State of Tasmania I can assure you,  Mr President,  that everyone in my State is very thrilled that the royal guests will be visiting us for 3 days next month. It was a pleasure for me, retaining the Tasmanian touch, to hear my colleague  Senator Rae  moving the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. This is not an easy speech for anyone to make but for one of  Senator Rae's  calibre and experience it appeared to be easy.  His  speech was forthright and very effective as it got the Opposition howling. 
My mind goes back in politics a long way. For a long time I was on the outside looking in at Parliament. My memory goes back to 1922 when I was a youth and when my late father was elected to the State Parliament in Tasmania. On his retirement a brother of mine won the seat and I joined the staff of the new and vigorous, and remaining vigorous, Liberal Party. Then as secretary to the Leader of the Opposition in the State Parliament I continued to see politics from the Opposition side, so in some respects my friends on the other side of this chamber have had my sympathy all through the years since 1953 - 17 years ago last week - when the State Parliament of Tasmania honoured me by appointing me to fill a casual vacancy in the Senate. Thanks to the organisation of the Party to which I belong and to the people of Tasmania, I have retained my seat. In those 17 years I have seen government in action. I have seen this Government under attack from all sides and at all times - it is right and fair for a government to be attacked and I have no quarrel with that - and I have seen this Government come through the attack, face the electors and be returned to power. 
I hear  Senator Cavanagh  talking about himself, rudely interrupting me. It is rather remarkable and something which should be noted by all Australians that in this country of now 12 million people we have provided in a matter of only a few years three Prime Ministers, all statesmen in the eyes of the world. Those three Prime Ministers came from one political party. As I speak 1 realise - I think it is fair to state it - that those three Prime Ministers have come from the Slate of Victoria. It is a proud record for a country and a party to produce in such a short period at short notice three men who became statesmen in the eyes of the world and who were able to state Australia's case in the parliaments of the world. When you think of what happens in the United States and the problems there of who will run for  President  and who will have the confidence of the people to carry on the affairs of that country, and when you think of Churchill, Eden, Macmillan, Douglas-Home, Heath- 
Yes, one thinks of Wilson, the last Labour Prime Minister in Great Britain. He is still suffering. He changed his Cabinet many times in order to remain in office. He is still in office and he is known throughout the world. Australia can be proud of this matter which I have placed on record tonight.  Sir Robert  Menzies was the Prime Minister of Australia for a period and then went into the political wilderness. There are not many politicians who, having been in the political wilderness, have come back to the Prime Ministership. He decided that he wanted to come back and the people, after a few years of Labor misrule in post-war reconstruction, decided that they wanted him back. And back he came for a record term as Prime Minister of this country. There is no doubt that in that period the links with the United Kingdom were stronger and strong links were forged with the United States of America. The development of Australia really got under way in that period and no-one can deny the great awakening thought that was displayed and the tremendous success that was achieved by  Sir Robert  Menzies in relation to tertiary education. 
There are many aspects of policy that will always be remembered as entering the Australian picture during what was truly the Menzies era. Then came the retirement of  Sir Robert  Menzies. I repeat that there are friends of mine on the opposite side of this chamber who would wish that some elder statesmen might retire from their own Party rather than hang on.  Sir Robert  Menzies is still a great figure in the world today. He remains an honoured guest anywhere he cares to travel. 
Upon his retirement he was followed by the man who had been his apprentice -  Mr Harold  Holt. Harold Holt had been trained for leadership. He was trained in every facet of government and political tactics; he was a man of great charm; he was a man of real sincerity; he was a fearless man. I recall to mind the television scenes of the late Prime Minister coming out through the crowds after election meetings when Labor supporters, Communists and others tried to frighten him and howl him down. That man, with his charming smile and resolute character, went forward and led the Liberal Party to a landslide victory. While Harold Holt was Prime Minister a certain change came in the typical Holt style. He had his eye and his mind on Asia. He awakened Australia to the fact that in the near north we needed to be helpers and advisers when required and when invited, that we needed to place defence forces in that area when asked, and that we needed the nations in the near north as friends and trading partners. Harold Holt did much to establish Australia as a popular friendly nation in the eyes of many millions of Asiatics. 
Then tragedy occurred. From this Senate, from the very same political party to which Harold Holt belonged, came our present Prime Minister. John Gorton. Almost overnight Australia - had the first 20th century born Second World War veteran as Prime Minister of a Commonwealth Country. 
He is the Prime Minister of this country. This man was reared in the Australian countryside. He was widely and well educated and he obviously took every opportunity to improve his education and knowledge. He is a man who early in the Second World War volunteered and saw service as a fighter pilot. He is the man who was chosen in the early days after that war to join the Senate. Senators on both sides of this House soon realised that this man would go a long way. In tragic circumstances the opportunity came and the Liberal Party elected him as Prime Minister. At the following election the people re-elected him. The Party re-elected him as Prime Minister and as Australia enters the swinging 1970s we have at the helm a Second World War veteran. 
I believe that all students of the political scene over the past 20 years will see a certain change in approach, will see certain personal characteristics and certain desires in respect to matters of national and international importance become clear, as the Prime Minister's term of office develops. The Speech delivered by the Governor-General on . 3rd March, and which was prepared by the Prime Minister, was the most dynamic, in my time at any rate, that has been delivered by a GovernorGeneral. That Speech proposed about 15 or 20 pieces of legislation. Within a few days, indeed in much less time than it took  Senator Murphy  to think up a very stupid amendment, important statements came from the Ministry through the Parliament to the people of Australia. That, of course, is the correct procedure for informing us of important Government policies and programmes. 
As a result of this Speech, which clearly can and should be described as one which shows a government in action and an active, hard-working, forceful Prime Minister in command, both Houses of the Parliament will have all the work that they can handle in the weeks that lie ahead. Important decisions emanating from this legislation will have to be made by us and there will be times when each man and each woman will have to be in his or her place to be counted. It is my belief - 1 say this with all the sincerity that can muster - that contained in the legislation will be matters for the good of Australia in the near and the distant future and it will behove us in many cases to put aside Party bickering and to try to approach those matters in the spirit in which I believe the legislation will be prepared and presented to the Parliament. I am conscious that legislation does not and will never solve all of the problems that face a central government or a national government in the times in which we live. I shall not delve deeply, in the few minutes left to me tonight, into many of the problems which I see facing this country. Certain of the problems already have been traversed by senators who know more about these individual matters than 1 would claim to know. But they stand out as problems to which we must ali apply ourselves and on which the Government must give a lead. 
First and foremost - rich as we are in minerals, oil, natural gas and other natural resources - we arc still basically reliant on the success, stability and viability of our primary industries. As has been said and is very well known, many sectors of primary industry are in grave trouble. Not all of their problems can be solved either by a lot of talk in the Senate or by merely passing legislation. Matters of international trade and of peace in other parts of the world come into a consideration of these problems. But a heavy responsibility devolves on all of us to pay attention to the problems that face many sectors of our important primary industries. 
Many social problems still beset this affluent nation. Australia is in a state of comparatively full employment and, in some sectors, over full employment. However, there are too many pockets of poverty. The Prime Minister has referred to them. The Government will introduce legislation in the fields of social services and health and will propose amendments to schemes which we hope will go a long way towards getting rid of these pockets of poverty, Australia is too grand and rich a country for us to put up with allowing pockets of poverty, other than those that are selfinflicted wounds, to continue to exist. The combined efforts of all members of the national Parliament will be needed to overcome some of these problems. Shortages must exist in a nation with a small population, when great development over wide areas of the continent is taking place. 
Every year we bring new migrants to this country. We are continuing and perhaps improving on the immigration policy started by a Labor government under the guidance of the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  in 1947. We are bringing to Australia in migrants alone the equivalent of a brand new city of 125,000 people. In other words, another Canberra, as it is today,, is coming every year into this country by way of migration alone. Thank goodness, many good Australians are being born and are growing up in this country. Many, young Australians marry and want homes. They need schools and hospitals. I know that there are shortages in the supply of these necessary buildings. The Government, has not been unmindful of this. But the problem that besets this country at the moment has an effect on the shortage of . hospitals, schools and other such required buildings. The problem I refer to is that of Commonwealth and State relations. This concerns not only financial relations. 
Quite frankly, I am. amazed at the unsatisfactory Commonwealth and State financial relations and the haggling that has gone on at Premiers Conferences every year that I have been in . Parliament. The situation has not really improved. T am not blaming any of the Premiers, either present or past, for this state of affairs. All I am saying is that an unsatisfactory state of affairs exists in this modem. Australia in the one very important matter of the financial relationships between the central Government and the sovereign States. It is difficult to understand that in this space age, this age of great inventions, of great triumphs and of great advances, - the financial, economic and political brains of this country cannot get together and have not got together to formulate satisfactory, healthy and economically sound Commonwalth and State financial arrangements. I believe that when that day comes we will get the hospitals, the schools and far more contentment among the people than we have at present. 
There is too much strife in the school teaching profession. One often cannot understand why this is so. But great strife is developing in many sectors of school teaching today. Nothing but harm and bad can flow into the community from a profession such as school teaching whose members are unsettled and dissentient. The example school teachers give to school children makes one wonder how great will be the dissenters of the next generation. Someone, either in government or in the education administration, is to blame for this position. This is a matter that needs the attention of those who may be able to bring a solution to the problem. 
The Governor-General spoke about the past 200 years and said that we must look forward. One small facet of common sense that I heard from  Senator Murphy  was his emphasis on the fact that the Prime Minister had openly stated that he realised that the middle group wage earner was too severely taxed and that he and his Government were looking at this situation to try to amend the scales of taxation to give some relief to this class of taxpayer. I hope the Prime Minister realises that that pronouncement of policy and promise to take some action will be remembered, and the decision as to how it will be implemented will be eagerly waited for by the people of Australia. 
The Senate in recent years has extended its role in regard to the establishment of committees. This has been a very wise and valuable increase in the activities of senators. I very much regretted to read the statement of a well known political commentator, who writes for a recently formed Sunday newspaper in Melbourne, that he regretted that most reports of Senate committees, however good, were pigeonholed. That is not true. I know that much good has resulted to the printing industry from the report of the Printing and Publications Committee of which  Senator Murphy  and 1, along with other senators, were members. This good work is still being carried out. We have the great example of the Laught report on the metric system of weights and measures. The late  Senator Keith  Laught will ever be remembered for his work on that Committee the recommendations of which will be of great benefit to the people of Australia. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer who administers the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics. In view of the fact that the Bureau recently released figures tending to indicate that speed causes the majority of road accidents, will the Minister seek information for the Senate as to whether the Bureau receives any information when so-called speed caused accidents are reported which would indicate, if medical opinion has been obtained, whether the ingestion of alcohol or drugs by the driver concerned was in reality the real cause of the accident, as most authorities believe that speed driving is basically caused by over indulgence in drugs or alcohol? 
In a spirit of co-operation on this Thursday morning, I am prepared to act upon the hint delightfully given by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Anderson),  no doubt in association with others, in respect of the continuation of this debate. When the debate was adjourned last night I had just commenced rebutting allegations made by a political commentator to the effect that reports of Senate committees had no great value and in fact were purely academic because the Government pigeon-holed them. I emphasise my denial of that allegation. We have had it proved wrong in the Senate. 1 also put on the record another view that I have on how great value comes from the expansion of this system of having Senate select committees inquiring into important subjects and making reports of economic or social usefulness to the people of Australia. I refer to the Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures, of which 1. was privileged to be a member. Two things have flowed from that expansion. From the time that the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures was set up, throughout its sittings and for months afterwards the business community was forewarned. It was obvious to members of the business community that the. metric system of weights and measures would be coming to Australia. 
The report of the Committee was well received by business and manufacturing interests and by trade and: commerce generally. The business people were not shocked. They were pleased because in their own factories and businesses they had commenced to prepare for the introduction of the metric system. The announcement by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  that the Government had accepted the principles of the report then followed. Last weekend we heard of the appointment of somebody to set up a board as suggested by the Committee. 
That Committee was followed by the setting up of the Senate Select Committee on Air Pollution and the Senate Select Committee on Water Pollution. I wonder how much the people of Australia would have known today, but for those committees, about the terrible dangers of and harm resulting from air and water pollution that is with us. Last night  Senator Georges  pointed out that the situation is rapidly deteriorating to the point where we are in danger as a people from air and water pollution. The setting up of the committees and the publicity flowing through the news media and the reading of the evidence taken by Ihe committees has alerted State and Federal governments and departments, local government bodies and industry generally to the dangers. I will bet that more reading is being done now about air and water pollution than would have been done had Ihe committees not got under way. 
A benefit is derived by the people we represent from the very fact that the Senate has expanded its work of forming committees. I believe that, the committees enquiring into air and water pollution were set up only because former  Senator Denham  Henty, a great Tasmanian - he was Leader of the Government in the Senate and Minister for Supply - visited the United States of America and through his official work there came to realise the great problems facing Americans because of air and water pollution. On his return to Australia he said: 'We must have a look at the dangers of pollution in Australia.' So the good work went on through the formation of Senate select committees. 
Progress is being made by : the Senate Select Committee which is enquiring into ali aspects of the national health scheme. There is no doubt that much good will result and great help will be given to the Government when taking note qf its report. Currently I am privileged to be  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. At present the taking of drugs is a grave social problem facing the world and in some aspects is widespread m Australia. I do not intend to lecture the Senate on that subject. I want to say only that it is my belief that since that Committee was set up and commenced hearing evidence many more people in all age groups and all walks of life are being forewarned and informed of the dangers of the drug menace in its various forms throughout Australia. I believe that throughout the public hearings of the Committee goodwill has started to flow and will continue to flow. The only real cure of the drug menace in Australia is for people to be warned off taking drugs. They can be warned off only by hearing the opinions of experts given under oath before a committee of the national Parliament. 
I hope that those who try to denigrate joint committees and Senate committees by implying that the Government does not act on the recommendations of those committees and therefore no good comes from them will realise the truth. I hope that all honourable senators will continue to adopt a national outlook on committees and will continue their good work on committees as the years go by. I support the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply and oppose both amendments which, I think, are inappropriate and unnecessary. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. My attention has been drawn to an article on the finance and business page of a well known daily newspaper under the startling headline: 'Stealing of  Senator Murphy's  Clothes'. I understand that the article implies that this action has been taken to try to prevent  Senator Murphy  moving his motion for the setting up of a select committee to inquire into stock exchange activities, or at least to make it very difficult and embarrassing for him to do so. If the headline is correct and the stealing of  Senator Murphy's  clothes has occurred, is this some form of contempt of Parliament? 
I speak briefly in support of the two Bills before the Senate. They are not machinery measures. They are putting into legislative form part of the policy enunciated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  during the recent election campaign for the House of Representatives. This is a pointer to a government in action and carrying out its policy. The Government is putting into effect a policy announced in the election campaign. This legislation is also an indication that the Government is continuing its now well established policy of keeping in mind all the problems associated with social service and repatriation benefits. At this time - not even at Budget time, but towards the end of a financial year - we see another sector of social service and repatriation beneficiaries being given more financial help. In other words, the Government has had a look at what is available and where the weakness exists and has introduced into this Parliament legislation to improve the lot of those who receive pensions and other social service benefits. 1 suggest that never in the field of human conflict or endeavour and never in the life of any parliament will any chamber of parliament be unanimous in saying that benefits paid to any members of society by a government are sufficient and fair in all respects. In no way can legislation ever give a completely fair deal to all members of the community who for various reasons suffer hardship, illness and other problems. But it is heartening to see that this group of people - married couples who may be parted for various reasons - will enjoy greater financial help. 
One point that surprises me is that in the second reading speeches made in another place and also in the second reading speeches made in this chamber no figures have been given as to the expected cost in a financial year of the benefits which, we hope, are to become law shortly. It would be interesting to know how many individual people this legislation will benefit because it would give some pointer to whether the legislation is as good as we are led to believe it is. After all, in this respect figures do count and can be impressive or can point up a field in which some more generous extension might be made. 
I have only a few words to say. I have only one small reason for speaking on these measures. I would not like two Bills such as these to go through the Senate without at least endorsing them or, if I have criticism, putting that criticism to the Senate. I am mindful of the time factor; but if I desired or had reason to be critical or to suggest amendments no time factor would govern me in respect of social services and repatriation. But we are now in the position that the Opposition and the Democratic Labor Party are supporting the measures. I give them my  support  and congratulate members of the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party for their attitudes to the two measures we are debating. 
The Senate has been forced into a debate, and I believe that it was an excellent idea of the Opposition that the Senate should choose this afternoon to debate the question of the Government's reintroduction of a waiting period for war service homes finance - or more correctly, it should be claimed as being the alleged action of the Government. In this financial year, of which the last quarter is well under way, $55m was made available for war service homes. This money was made available to allow Australian ex-servicemen and those eligible under the War Service Homes Act to become purchasers of their own homes. 
The Australian Labor Party criticises the Government and says that this amount of money is not sufficient. I am not going with  Senator O'Byrne  back to 1918-19, but I am going back a number of years to the last occasion when a Labor government held office in this sphere of politics. At that time the Opposition of the day, the present Government Parties, pleaded with the Labor post-war government to provide the money and means by which people could purchase their own homes. The then Minister for Post-war Re-construction, the honourable J. J. Dedman, said: 'We do not want a race of little capitalists'. The Labor Party, when in office, was against home ownership by Australians. But those days have gone. Now that the Labor Party is in Opposition, it is castigating this Government for an alleged breach of trust, as referred to by  Senator O'Byrne. 
The facts are that there has not been the upsurge in the number of applications from returned servicemen from Vietnam and the other theatres of overseas active service as there was after the Second World War. 1 go along with  Senator Little  and  Senator Greenwood  who said that the reason for this is that these servicemen are young men who are coming back from war service and who have not yet decided how, where and when they want to purchase a home. Honourable senators must remember that once an ex-serviceman who is entitled to war service homes assistance receives a loan, he can never come again. Therefore, he wants to purchase a home where he wants to live. Since the Second World War, more than 260,000 homes have been built under the war service scheme. 
One might have been excused for thinking that in this period, so long after the close of the war, the numbers of applications would gradually decrease. This decrease commenced several years ago and it has continued at a fairly level average of about 8%. Because of rising costs in home building, the Government saw the need to increase to $8,000 the amount which each applicant could receive as a war service homes loan. Consequently, with that increase came a greater upsurge of home buyers through this system. 1 think this has happened for 2 reasons because, as every member in the Parliament will admit, the best and most generous way to buy a house in Australia today is to purchase it under the war service homes legislation. 
We are living in an affluent society and many men - not only those who served in the Second World War but others who are eligible for war service homes - have decided that they will give up renting a house or a flat or living in a house that they have inherited or brought under some other plan, and, because their savings are greater in the affluent society, take advantage of the increased amount available to them, still on the same generous terms, to purchase the home in which they want to live in what are becoming the later stages of their lives. No government could be accused of lack of foresight in not being able to assess that in 1969-70 there would be an increase in the number of people who fought in a war which ended in 1945 and who would desire to take advantage of a loan. The increase in the number coupled with the increase in the amount of loan has meant that at this stage of the year - on the 8th day of the 10th month of the financial year - there appears not to be any more money available from the vote made for war service homes loans. 
The Minister for Housing  (Senator Dame Annabelle Rankin)  did not have time to explain this. 1 go along with some honourable senators opposite and say that I find it difficult to understand why it should take 4 months for an application for a war service home loan to be processed. But we are told that it does take 4 months and therefore any applicant from a week ago until the end of this financial year has no hope of getting his application for a war service home loan granted. There are some whose applications have been lodged and processed and the ex-servicemen entitled to the loan are ready to get the money. The Minister has told us that money is not now available and will not be available until the first week in July - that is, the start of the new financial year - for existing homes that are being purchased. I want to refer to this aspect because it is right that it should go on the record. It has been government policy since 1918-19 in respect of war service homes that there be an element of enticement for an ex-serviceman to purchase a block of land and build his own home. In my view there are 2 very good reasons for this. It is a chance for the exserviceman to purchase the block of his desire in the locality of his desire. This is the only loan he can get from the Government in his lifetime and he can have the house of his desirable design built on his block. 
This also has been a very good part of Government policy because if there is one industry that does an amazing amount of good for the economy and gets men employed it is the building industry, the housing industry. Once a contract to build a home is let the axe and saw start working in the forest and every branch of industry that has to provide the wherewithal to complete a furnished home is put into action, and so the money flows through and this helps the employment of many people. The war service homes system has been a bulwark of the house building industry in Australia. The second choice in priorities for war service homes under all shades of government has been the purchase of an existing home. People who want to purchase an existing home are the ones who are being told that money to purchase it cannot be made available to them until July because there is no benefit to the economy at all if a person buys a completed home. It must be recognised by all that this is of no help to the building industry. There is another factor which 1 believe is quite important when one comes to consider  Senator Little's  suggestion that a special supplementary grant should be made now to the War Service Homes Division to allow the purchase of existing homes by successful applicants. But I realise, and anyone who has any common sense and knows business in this country or any other today, realises that if people selling homes that were wanted and being waited for by ex-servicemen eligible for war service home loans knew that $2m or more was to be pumped into the home buying economy between now and the end of July, up would go the price of homes. 
It is not my belief that a government should be part and parcel of aiding people to get inflated prices from ex-servicemen for the homes they want to buy with this Government loan. There is another point about the suggested injection of funds for the promised and well-earned aid to exservicemen. It is absolutely certain that if at any time in the next few weeks before this Parliament adjourns for the winter recess the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  or the Minister for Housing were to announce that $2m or $4m would be made available between now and 30th June to help satisfy all of the current applications for war service homes not now satisfied there would be an urgency motion from the Opposition the following morning asking us why we could not provide more money to the States for schools and for hospitals and why we could not provide more funds for housing commissions. 
The Opposition is in the gloriously comfortable position of being able to pick on one sector - an important sector, but only one sector of the whole responsibility of government - and say: 'You are wrong because your generous loan conditions have exhausted the amount made available, even though it is S5m greater than las! year's. You have exhausted the funds and you should put more money into it.' It is absolutely certain that there would be a cry for more help in other spheres in which there is Commonwealth responsibility. Under the present situation one can hardly name a sphere of government in Australia today where financial responsibility does not finally rest upon the Commonwealth Government. I do not blame the Opposition for bringing this forward. It is not a tender spot in any respect at all, because throughout the early years of government by these parties following the Labor Government there was a long period of delay in which temporary or bridging finance had to be arranged. It was, we have been told, up to 20 months. Now the period is from 2 to 8 weeks. I am told it is 8 weeks at the most for existing homes. This is not a problem of raising temporary finance for that amount when the ex-serviceman receives from the War Service Homes Division a letter stating that his application for a loan to purchase such and such a home has been granted. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
By coincidence, my question also is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. I believe this indicates the impact my Tasmanian colleague has made both on the tourist industry and the interest in tourism in the Senate. 
As a matter of fact, it is not. In the course of the Minister's recent overseas visit I believe he included Las Vegas in his busy itinerary. Has he reached any conclusion as to what, if any, value could come to the growing tourist industry in Australia if gambling casinos were permitted to be operated in this country? 
Is the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities able to inform the Senate, following earlier representations made to him by  Senator Rae  and myself, whether any of the sailing ships from other countries visiting Australia for the Captain Cook bi-centenary celebrations will be able to visit any Tasmanian port while they are in Australian waters? 
I address my question to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that we are reaching the era of the jumbo jets and because of the great increase in the number of charter flights, will the Minister advise the Senate, either now or as early as is possible, what airports in Australia are capable of handling jumbo jets and what action is contemplated to bring to the necessary standard airports which jumbo jets may desire to use on charter flights? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities whose portfolio is connected with the Department of Trade and Industry. Is it not a fact that over 1. million people have attended the Australian pavilion at Expo 70 in Japan? Has the Minister received any indication at this early stage whether these visitors are merely sightseers or could there be great benefit both to trade and industry and the tourist industry because of our obviously very popular pavilion at Expo 70? 
Has the Minister for Civil Aviation read today's copy of the "Australian." the sub-leader of which refers to a Senate select committee on aircraft noise? ls it not a fact that there is no Senate select committee on aircraft noise? Has the Minister any comment to make on the statement that the restrictions regarding the curfew on airports prove that airports are built in the wrong places? Is it not a fact that normally in Australia, apart from Mascot Airport, airports have been built and homes and industries have been built around Ihe airports after the airports have been constructed? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that, to my knowledge, no announcement of the names of honourable senators who are to be members of the Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange has been made, can the Leader of the Government indicate whether the delay is caused by leaders of all Parties awaiting a reply from the Attorney-General to a question I asked some weeks ago as to whether or not it would be fit or proper for honourable senators serving on that Committee to be holders of shares and/or people who have any dealings in shares during the life of the Committee? 
My question, relating to the proposed Senate Select Committee on Securities and Exchange, is addressed to the Leader of the Opposition. I asked a question some weeks ago as to whether it would be proper and/or wise for members of the Senate Select Committee, which he moved to have set up, to hold shares and deal in them during the proceedings of the Committee? As I know that my colleague, the Minister for Works, who represents the Attorney-General in this place, has made strenuous efforts to obtain an answer to my question, and as I know that the Attorney-General is making inquiries, would it not indicate that there is some grey area of doubt in respect of this? Therefore, in fairness to all honourable senators concerned, would the Leader of the Opposition agree wilh me that it would be preferable that no names of members of the Committee be announced until this Senate is advised by the Attorney-General as to his opinion? 
I present the second report of the Printing Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Interior. In support of the Australian Automobile Association's opposition to the use of television in any motor vehicle where it could in any way distract the attention of the driver, will he ask his colleague the Minister for the Interior to ensure that the Commonwealth Government sets an example by ensuring that its relevant legislation contains the safeguard required by the AAA in respect of vehicles in the Australian Capital Territory and other areas under Commonwealth administration? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that there was a few years ago a direct air service between Sydney and Tasmania, and because of the known increased tourist and commercial traffic between the eastern States and Tasmania, will the Minister discuss with one or both of the civil airlines the possibility of some agreement being reached for a resumption of this service even on a rationalised basis, and in due course will he inform the Senate of the result of his discussions? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry ask his colleague to endeavour to speed up discussions concerning the fruit stabilisation scheme which has been promoted by the Tasmanian Fruit Board, and indicate when a decision on the Government's willingness to participate can be expected? This whole matter is one of urgency and extreme importance to the Tasmanian fruit industry and has been under the Minister's consideration since December 1969. 
ls the Minister for Works aware that many Australian architects on the mainland, when drawing up plans and specifications for buildings to be constructed in Tasmania, specify the use of Oregon timber, which is imported from North America, although it is well known that Tasmanian oak is in plentiful supply, is cheaper in price and is at least equally suitable? Is he also aware that when Oregon timber is specified the costs of buildings are increased and construction is delayed because of a hold-up in the supply of that imported timber? Can the Minister assure the Senate that if and when Commonwealth buildings are constructed in Tasmania preference will be given not only to Tasmanian timber, but also whenever possible to all types of building materials available in Tasmania? Will the Minister use his influence to urge architects throughout Australia to adopt a policy of recommending the use of locally available timber and other building materials as far as is practicable? 
I rise to take part in this debate- 
Being a representative of Tasmania I will speak completely fearlessly with some very deep knowledge of the situation and, let me say to  Senator Cant,  with no thought of votes that may be won or lost. If the honourable senator would like to challenge me on that point he should just wait and listen. I want to say, first of all, that my colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Wriedt,  took rightful action in introducing this matter of urgency. We on the Government side were told of this at 2.25 this afternoon. This was unusually late - even for the present Opposition - notice to the Government and its supporters that a matter of urgency was to be debated. Knowing  Senator Wriedt's  straightforwardness, honesty and decency, I say that this may have been caused by the fog that disrupted transport, but it is becoming more the exception than the rule for us on the Government side to be given very late notice of the raising of matters of urgency and this does preclude us from doing homework to get actual figures and information or, as is the case today because we have all been busy since we have received this notice, we are unable to give proper attention to the speeches mads; in support of the desire of the honourable senator for the Senate to adjourn. 
Whether or not the Australian Labor Party is getting tired I do not know. Let us be honest and admit that this motion is built around container shipping because we are living in the world of container shipping and will live in it from now on. The question is whether Tasmanian exporters and importers are to get a fair deal by way of container services and in respect of freight charges. I claim that I was one of the first in the Senate to warn the Senate, the Government and the people of Australia of the importance of being prepared to take action in respect of the onrush of container shipping, lt is recorded in Hansard of 29th March 1966 that when speaking on the Australian Coastal Shipping Bill I reminded Ihe now Leader of the Government  (Senator Anderson)  who was then Minister for Customs and Excise that I had some regret that the Australian National Line was talking about bulk carriers and also more rollon roll-off cargo ships because the world of container shipping was upon us and we apparently were not a wake-up to that fact and were going in for a type of ship that would possibly be going out of production rather than coming into production. Ever since 1966 I have been an advocate in and out of Parliament for the Government and private enterprise to apply themselves to providing adequate modern fair rate shipping services to Tasmania because apart from the airlines shipping is our most important and only real link with the mainland. lt is the lifeline from Tasmania to the mainland and for our exports to the rest of the world. 

 Senator Wriedt took up the question of the Constitution. I deny that this Government has ever discriminated in any way against Tasmania in respect of shipping. I rather take up the point made by  Senator Lillico,  namely, that if we intend to be terribly legalistic in regard to the Constitution perhaps we in Tasmania should go a little quietly because, if all the facts about all the money that has been spent by the present Government on providing shipping services to and from Tasmania were known, it might be said that the discrimination is in our favour. I do not claim that we have been overfavoured, but I suggest that we should go quietly on that point. 
It is known -  Senator Wriedt  reminded us of this - that for overseas exports and container services there wm be three major ports and the two feeder ports that have been named, but no Tasmanian feeder port has been named. It would be a brave and knowledgeable Tasmanian who at this time would stand up and say that a particular port in Tasmania should be the one container feeder port to the main port of Melbourne for overseas exports. Again I point out to  Senator Cant  that I am not thinking about votes. 

 Senator Wriedt quoted a statement made by the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  some time ago - I forget the actual date - in which he made almost a promise and at least an assertion that Tasmania would not be forgotten in respect of freights and feeder services to the main ports. Unfortunately I have not had time to obtain the actual Press cutting, but if my memory serves me correctly there appeared in the Tasmanian Press last week a statement that was a definite assurance that Tasmanian freights to the main container ports would be the same as all freights from feeder ports to the main container ports throughout Australia. 
In other words, the McEwen promise, assertion or guarantee of some years ago either has been proved correct or is on the point of being proved correct. One does not normally state in the Parliament what goes on in private audiences with Ministers, shippers and other people; but we senators and members on both sides of both Houses of the Parliament, throughout this period of introduction of the system of container shipping, have been busy putting Tasmania's case to the Minister and the powers that be. In my interviews with deputations I have found a growing feeling of confidence that Tasmania's position will be adequately safeguarded and that we will be treated well when the final arrangements are able to be announced. 
But 1 must remind myself and the Senate that in this respect, in my view, the Commonwealth Government has an ability only to advise and/or pressurise private enterprise - the consortia that are interested - in respect of overseas shipping and overseas freight rates. As a Tasmanian I am confident that the final result will prove that this Government, through its Ministers, has kept the interests of Tasmania in respect of overseas shipping in the forefront and that we will not be the losers when the final decisions are announced. In fact, 1 believe that they were announced at the end of last week. 
I believe that we have problems in respect of Tasmanian container shipping services to the Australian mainland. No State in the Commonwealth has better ports or a greater proliferation of ports able to be used in practically all weathers than Tasmania has. Let me go quickly around the State from Stanley, Port Latta, Burnie, Devonport, Inspection Head and Bell Bay to Hobart and Port Huon. Literally millions of dollars has been spent in the last few years and will be spent in the future on preparing those ports for a growth in Tasmania's import and export trade. I believe that roll-on roll-off ships, container ships and/or unit load ships will have to have schedules that include all the ports I have named in order to take cargo between Tasmania and the mainland. I cannot see Tasmania having one port for its interstate cargo, because of the cost factor. The railway and road systems would be completely inadequate, whereas I am sure that the port installations and facilities and the availability of cargo at the other ports will merit services from them to the mainland. 
With the arrival of the Australian National Line on the shipping scene a change has come about which has been disadvantageous to Tasmania in some respects. Either the Australian National Line, by coming into the service and spreading its ships - not its wings - has forced private enterprise out or private enterprise has thought: The ANL is in. We cannot compete. It is able to build new ships and adequate ships for modern cargo handling. We will go off the run'. It is fair to say that in the interstate trade the Union Steam Ship company has done a great job, with the 'Seaway King' and the 'Seaway Queen', in providing services to Hobart and Launceston. There are also smaller ships on the island trade. But the ANL really has the bulk of the Tasmanian interstate trade. 
This has had another result. With conventional ships going out, the new types of ships coming in and private enterprise drawing in its activity, as far as I can find out there are no longer tramp ships that are able to be called in, as in days of old, to pick up cargo that has banked up in any of the Tasmanian ports for transshipment to mainland ports. I cannot deny that, as in the past, we are currently experiencing serious problems in Tasmania -I hope that they will not last for long - because of the bank-up of exports for both the overseas trade and the interstate trade. This is caused by either a lack of adequate shipping or the hold-ups in the shipping services that are scheduled to run. 
One of the greatest drawbacks in the tourist trade and in shipping generally has been the unfortunate spate of disputes, which last for far too long, on the waterfront at odd times - particularly on the mainland; we do not have much trouble in this regard in Tasmania - but especially among the crews. The disputes have involved mainly the stewards or engineers of the ANL and, in particular, those of the 'Empress of Australia' which is such an important cargo and tourist link between our State and New South Wales or the port of Sydney. Taking an unbiassed view of the situation, 1 do not believe it is fair in this urgency debate to blame the Government. There may be those among us who feel the Government should buy more heavily into union troubles. I believe in arbitration, not coercion, and in responsible pleading in trying to obtain agreements and satisfaction as far as both employees and employers are concerned. I do not blame the Commonwealth Government, nor do I altogether blame the unions. If the unions have problems which they want solved, perhaps striking sometimes is essential. But I believe there have been far too many hold-ups. These hold-ups have caused a great problem. I believe the Australian National Line must keep an influential and steady eye on requirements. 
The Acting  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. Knowing the Minister's willingness to encourage conciliation and arbitration in the settlement of differences of opinion between persons, I ask: Will the Minister whose knowledge and support of the state aid for education policy are well known, use his best efforts to settle the cleavage of pre-Victorian State election opinion said to exist between our Victorian senatorial colleagues, Senators Brown and Poyser, on the question of state aid? 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate consider even at this late stage a sincere appeal being made through all news media throughout Australia to all young people, elderly and infirm persons, and people of good will towards the Australian sense of international responsibility and decency, to remain off the streets of Australian towns and cities during the Moratorium demonstrations both for their own safety and to ensure that by their absence from the streets they will not be claimed to be participating in this un-Australian activity? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seek information from his colleague as to what action is being taken to safeguard the fishing grounds of Tasmanian fishermen from the activities of foreign fishing vessels, many sightings of which have allegedly been made recently within Tasmanian territorial waters? 
In rising to give my views on the motion which has been moved on behalf of the Australian Democratic Labor Party by  Senator Little,  I cannot but preface my remarks by saying what a coincidence it is that in the Chair at the moment is  Senator Wood,  a man who is so well-versed in the problems of local government finance. Local government must be in our minds as an integral part of the question before the Senate. As is normal for the Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Little  emphasised his non-Party political approach to this subject, in the hope that this approach would continue. I believe that the Liberal Party is continuing this approach, I hope to the satisfaction of  Senator Little.  1, a Liberal Party back bencher, will speak first and give my views. 
This matter has been on the notice paper for a long time. The current session has been a busy 1 for the Parliament. Most of us, including myself, have not looked ahead to see what might or might not be debated. I blame no-one for this debate being brought on now. Our first knowledge that it would be brought on was at about 2.30 this afternoon. Recently when I criticised the Opposition for bringing on a debate on a matter of urgency  Senator Murphy  interjected and said that I should know the subject off by heart. Possibly all of us in the Senate know sufficient about the problems of financial relations between the Commonwealth, the States and local government bodies to enable us to give our views on the subject. 
I believe  Senator Little  and his Party colleagues should be congratulated for bringing forward this motion.  Senator Little  has given us an opportunity in General Business time - not in Government Business time - to discuss, unlimited by time and untrammelled by Party politics, a subject of very great national importance. I do not agree with any of the Democratic Labor Party's other suggestions. I am aware that the Minister who will reply has decided to listen to the debate. In due course he will take part in the debate and will inform the Senate of the Government's thoughts on the subject. 1 am opposed on 3 counts to the setting up of a joint select committee of the Parliament or a select commitee of the Senate to inquire into this vast and important field of national finance. My first ground for opposition is based on the not unreal problem of manpower. 
The majority of honourable senators are engaged in as much committee and parliamentary work as I believe they could carry out and still fulfil their duties as senators in their home States. We have to realise that a Senate election will be held and must be held at any time from OctoberNovember to the end of May next year. Within 12 months we will have had a Senate election. As at all such elections, some of our members, of their own free will, will not seek re-election and will not return. Their places will be filled by new senators. Others who will face the electors in the hope that they will be returned may be disappointed and may not return. Therefore on 2 scores I say that the Senate could not be represented properly and adequately on such an inquiry because of the manpower situation. 1 believe it would be unwise to set up a Commonwealth parliamentary committee to inquire into this subject. The suspicions of State and local governments would be aroused immediately. I believe that sources of information would be closed to a committee of the Commonwealth Parliament because of the differing views and rivalries that exist between the Commonwealth and State governments at this time. 
 I did not quite catch the interjection. I do not like interjections. 1 do not like making them although sometimes I am forced into doing so. I have given the reasons why I believe a committee of inquiry of the Commonwealth Parliament to inquire into this subject of national importance affecting government at the State and local level would be doomed from the start. State governments and local government bodies are calling for a change in the relationship. 1 believe I have established a reasonable case for opposition to the Senate taking part in such an inquiry or for recommending that a Commonwealth parliamentary committee be set up. 1 am willing to agree that Australia has great problems about financial responsibility. These problems have existed and still exist in every federal form of government. Every federal form of government is desirous of setting up some form of committee to solve its problems so that they will not remain problems in future. The United Kingdom is having problems because of its financial relationships with and responsibilities to Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland. Searches for a solution have been made and currently are being made. I understand that those searches are not being undertaken by parliamentarians. 
I have admitted that a serious situation exists in Australia. I emphasise that at heart I am a federalist, and very deeply so. I believe I know what are the States' rights. know something about their needs, their sovereignty and the way in which they carry out their sovereign rights. In Australia today local government is facing a growing need for financial help - not loan funds but revenue from the central purse. I believe that local government cannot exist and develop its own responsibilities, which involve the facilities nearest to and most required by the ordinary people, if left to continue with its present financial burdens. There must be a division of financial power and responsibility. I refer to the responsibility for raising revenue and the expenditure of that revenue. There is the responsibility of raising loan funds and allocating those funds. There is the responsibility for repaying the loans as and when they fall due. 
There is in addition the responsibility and the burden of paying the interest charges. If some control were not placed on moneys borrowed, financial disaster could overcome local government bodies or State governments in future because of the burden of interest commitments and loan repayments that unwise government may have placed upon them. 
In all 3 areas of government - in the Commonwealth, in the 6 States and in the many hundreds of city and suburban municipalities and country shires - there is need for some solution to their financial problems. We in Australia are in a way blessed by the Constitution, but in many cases we find as we try to legislate for the people's welfare that we are seriously handicapped, first of all, by the Constitution and secondly, this Government and other governments have found to their cost that it seems to be part of the Australian way of life to say no to any government that asks for a change in the Constitution. In fact, I have heard somebody say that unless a government is prepared to put a question to the people so framed that they have to answer no to it, and that is the answer that the Commonwealth wants, it will never get its ideas on amending the Constitution put into force. So I believe that the idea of having a constitutional inquiry with a notion of changing our constitutional rights will never, or not in our time, be successful. We know the problems now facing the States and their attempts to raise revenue outside what have been their normal sources, and we know what happened to their efforts regarding the receipts tax. So we have a problem. It is not new. We know that it is serious and something must be done about it. We know that there is a vast area to be covered, a vast area which will require the most intensive study by experts in many fields of finance, financial responsibility and government responsibility. 
So far as parliaments are concerned, each parliament and each State feels that it has its own traditional rights to certain aspects of revenue and, indeed, certain rights as to expenditure. Each State considers that it has certain traditional claims on the Commonwealth to provide money and to provide loan funds. But it is obvious that if this system is not working the old order might have to change. I think everyone will agree that no State parliament or, I think, municipal authority, could be coerced or persuaded to agree to change its traditional means of obtaining revenue or its expenditure by the decisions of a committee of the centralist Federal Government. A committee of inquiry to bring a solution that needs to be long lasting would have to sit for a considerable period - I say a year or more - and this is another reason why I oppose a committee made up from the Commonwealth Parliament. I have talked about Senate elections. We know that almost every year now this Commonwealth Parliament is either facing with fear and trepidation an election or is suffering the results of an election, and we know that once the Parliament is dissolved to go to an election the committees of the Parliament under the law cease activity. We know that under the law these committees of the Parliament cannot reform to continue their work fill Parliament meets again and gives them the right to reform and get under way, so we would have almost every year a delay in the work of the committee. 
This is a handicap. The changing personnel would be a handicap, and because of the almost full time duties many of us have in this Parliament today we would have irregular attendances at the meetings of such a committee. I believe this would be a grave handicap to a final successful result. It is said that the Parliament should be able to provide the brains and the wherewithal and it could be said that a committee of Parliament has great powers to draw evidence. I cannot imagine a solution being found in a committee drawn also from members of the State Parliaments. I do not think a joint Commonwealth-State parliamentary committee would do the job that is needed to be done and which the Democratic Labor Party, I believe, wishes to be done. I am confident that the Premiers of the 6 States, together with the Commonwealth Treasurer and/ or Prime Minister, would not have the time, even with all the expert advice of their Treasury officials, to devote to getting down to solving the present problems. It appears to me as a layman that after each Premiers Conference the problem becomes worse, the rivalry more keen and the frustrations on all sides more worrying. What is needed to take the nonsense out of Premiers Conferences and stop the begging and bargaining that must go on under the present CommonwealthState financial set-up is for a solution to be found to take us into the next century. So I have come down on the side of suggesting that we need a small committee of full time experts in the fields of government, economics and finance. 
I would not in any way support a move for a royal commission. I believe, with great respect to the courts and the legal profession, that such an inquiry needs to be completely free of legalities and legal argument and counsel. I picture it more as a round table conference of chosen experts which would have some members representing the State outlook and some representing the local government outlook. They would have discussions with experts and, where necessary, take evidence on oath as does a committee of this Parliament. They would naturally look to Treasurers and Treasury officials to give evidence. I appreciate the fact that the moving of this motion tonight has been a useful means to start a debate in the Senate which was rightly reminded by  Senator Little  when he said: 'Are we the States' house?' We are looking for a solution to a problem that we know exists, which I honestly believe is handicapping Australia today and which is such that it is doing no good to the stature or reputation of Parliaments in either the Federal or the State sphere in the eyes of the people. I do not think there would be a person - unless he is most biased against parliamentarians - who would criticise the Parliament if it were to say: 'Yes, this is a job for a committee of experts in the field to report not only to the Federal Parliament but to the State parliaments.' Let it be a committee set up with the goodwill of the Prime Minister and the Premiers of the States. Let it sit continuously until it comes to the end of its task and then let the report come back to the Parliament and let us hear then what we think about it. I do not propose at this early stage in the debate to move an amendment to the motion but I do suggest to the Democratic Labor Party and to the Senate on the completely non-party political basis on which this was introduced that the idea that I have put forward be given serious consideration before the debate ends with the idea of an amendment coming forward. 
In view of the continued and understandable opposition by residents of Sydney to the continued use and threatened expansion of the use of large areas around Sydney Harbour by the Royal Australian Navy, will the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy ask his colleague to order a thorough examination of naval requirements in that area with a view to moving some units and base installations to other suitable Australian harbours, of which that at Hobart would be the obvious first and most advantageous choice? 
My question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate could almost, by coincidence, be supplementary to that asked of him by the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, fs it not correct and traditional procedure that motions for dissent from a ruling be given precedence over the normal business of the Senate? Has the Leader of the Government been notified of an urgency motion which will be moved and debated by the Opposition this day, thus further delaying debate on the dissent motion moved early last week? Does the Leader of the Government agree that the Opposition, realising that the dissent motion when debated will be soundly beaten and proved to be based on weak premises, is using the forms of the Senate to postpone the debate and that, therefore, the Opposition should be requested to admit its lack of judgment, withdraw the motion and permit the normal business of the Senate to proceed? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport provide information as to what special action is being taken to help solve the problem of getting the known increasing quantities of cargo from Tasmanian ports to the central container port of Melbourne? If there is a move to authorise the Australian National Line to obtain a fast roll-on roll-off type cargo ship for this purpose, can it be stated whether urgent action is being taken? 
If I may ask a question which will not incite insurrection against our footballers, will the Minister for Civil Aviation in due course make a statement to the Senate indicating how many and which civil airline flights to Canberra were delayed last Friday, 15th May, and at what airports, in order that members of the Australian Labor Party who had absented themselves from the Friday sitting of another place could be returned to the Parliament? Were any special flights arranged between any 2 Australian airports to assist in this re-grouping of the Australian Labor Party? 
This afternoon the Senate began a debate on a Bill for an Act to amend the National Health Act 1953-1969. Remembering that this Government came into power in 1949, this is at least the third legislative review of the national health scheme introduced by this Government. This afternoon we listened to  Senator Turnbull  who was supposedly speaking to the Bill, but he spent most of his time referring to certain drugs and the way in which drugs were allowed or were not allowed to be provided for various purposes. He then. 1 felt, cast a slur on his own profession. 
I do not know what members of his profession have ever done to the honourable senator to sour his mind against them, but he informed the Senate that under the provisions of this legislation medical benefits would be available in respect of certain operations, some of which he named, including a face lift. He ridiculed that such operations should attract Commonwealth and fund benefits. This is a matter that one would deal with only lightly because, in my view, the medical profession would not abuse the trust that the people and the Government have in it. Its members would not take advantage of any such provision and operate unnecessarily or encourage such operations. So 1 pass from his tirade in which the only trick of oratory which I noticed was one which has been attributed to  a  great Russian statesman who would note on the side of his speeches 'roar' or talk loudly; this is a weak point'. Several times during  Senator Turnbull's  speech his voice was raised very greatly and we who were listening realised that he was on weak ground in his criticism of the Government. 
When we in the national Parliament come to debate this legislation we are dealing with a problem that has 2 basic important facets: Firstly, it is surely aimed at the physical welfare and wellbeing of the ill; secondly, it must be remembered that the national health scheme, the pharmaceutical benefits scheme and other social welfare legislation ure important parts of the fiscal policy and responsibility of any government. My colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Lillico,  earlier in the debate spelt out to us the annual costs of this scheme prior to the introduction of this legislation. All I want to say is that this legislation will add at least $29. 5m a year to this aspect of the national health scheme. So it is an important step forward in providing financial help from the common purse. In using the words 'common purse' I emphasise, unlike  Senator Turnbull  who said that the Government would not give people this or that in the way of financial help, that no money that the Government gives belongs to the Government - it is money which is on loan from the people of Australia. So when a government makes financial benefits available to the people it is not giving them something for nothing; it is taking from all and sundry to give back in varying degrees to varying types of people in varying types of need. 
Surely the aim of a national health scheme - at least one put forward by this Government - is to provide the highest quality medical services to all who are in need of those services and to provide them at a cost which is, as nearly as possible, within easy reach of all the people in all circumstances of life. At the same time as it is providing those services it must have a scheme under which the medical profession receives a fair return for professional skills, for the training that members of the profession have undergone and the study they have undertaken to keep themselves abreast of modern times. They must receive not only a fair return but also an incentive for them to carry on their great work of ministering to the sick at all hours of the day and night under all conditions. It must be borne in mind that in providing for the people the financial set-up must be such that the medical profession in all its various facets must receive a fair return. 
I come now to the actual reason for the introduction of this legislation. In the policy speech of our Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, during the last election campaign for the House of Representatives it was announced that there would be a new approach towards widening and improving the national health scheme. The announcement came almost as an earthquake among members of the medical profession. I understand that many representations have been made to all members of the national Parliament. This is right and this is understandable. In addition we have received written representations. We have had deputations, telephone calls and visits, from all of which I at least have come to understand for the first time that the medical profession is to some extent in a form of disarray. This is highlighted by the varying representations from various sectors of the medical profession who have come to win over members of the national Parliament. 
I should think that prior to this period the average Australian awed and revered the medical profession, in which he included the general practitioner, the family doctor - that great help at all times, the real guide, philosopher and friend - and then the specialist to whom one was referred if the general practitioner felt that professional specialist advice and action was required. But now we realise that there are quite a number of sections of the medical fraternity who are working on and among members of Parliament on their own sectional behalf and not on behalf of the profession as a whole. Just briefly I mention the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, the section of general practice, the Australian Medical Association, the Royal College of Physicians and the Australian Medical Association of New South Wales which are some of the many sections of the medical profession which have been making representations to us and submitting claims presenting their particular outlook in relation to their particular rights that they feel are being hampered or trodden on by this new legislation. We have learned from  Senator Turnbull  that they have realised that they must now get together to try to form a united front. 
The Australian Democratic Labor Patty has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. The amendment suggests that this measure be delayed to allow the medical profession to meet as a profession to try to iron out its own difficulties and then to return to the Government with a united case for amendments to or deletions from the legislation now before the Senate. In my own mind I cannot agree to the proposed amendment. I hope that it will not even be pressed. It may sound very fair to the medical profession that this Parliament, having so many types of suggestions for amendments made to it, should wait and consider them and weigh the united front of the medical profession, but I wish to state my view. It has been announced that the Government intends that this legislation should become operative by 1st June. Whether one likes all this legislation or only part of it, it cannot be denied that once it becomes law many people on all standards of income and of living when requiring medical attention will start to receive greater financial benefits to help to pay the costs associated with their illnesses. Therefore I do not think it would be correct for the national Parliament to stop legislation that in the whole is aimed at all Australians, and in particular amendments is aimed at 284,000 people in the community. 
This legislation should not be delayed while the medical profession puts its house in order and becomes a united force - as 1 for one thought it was before October last year - and finally returns to this Parliament with suggestions for amendments. Of course, we would not be able to deal with those suggestions until the Budget session and so there would be a delay of some months before the real benefit that can flow from this legislation would go to the people. My outlook on the matter is that it is obvious that we will not have a satisfied medical profession the moment that this legislation becomes law, but I believe that its members will reach a unanimous decision earlier as to the amendments they want when they see this legislation in operation. 1 believe that they will learn more rapidly, they will come to a united decision more quickly, but in the meantime the good that can flow from this legislation will be flowing from the Parliament to the people who need it to help to pay their medical bills. 
I do nol like to hurry legislation, but when good can flow from it to the people I. think if possible we should get that legislation into operation. I believe 1 am truthfully reporting the Minister for Health  (Dr Forbes)  in staring that he said that if amendments are required and a case is put to the Government and to him, amendments will be introduced to try to satisfy the persons who are disgruntled wilh the legislation. I do not believe that it is right, for the medical profession to expect the Government or individual members of Parliament to act on all the individual sectional representations that have been made to us. I remind honourable senators of the procedure with repatriation legislation. The Government listens to representations by the Returned Services League, the spokesman for all ex-service organisations; the Australian Council of Trade Unions for the trade union movement; the Associated Chambers of Commerce for the business people; and the Associated Chambers of Manufactures for the manufacturing interests. These big organisations should have the goodwill and the discipline amongst themselves to present a united case to the Government. Our Government has always shown that when a united case is put to it on behalf of a section of the community - whether it is an important, powerful section or otherwise - it will listen to that case. 1 now turn to deal with certain aspects of the legislation which have induced me to support it. At first sight the Bill seems to be a massive document, but in reality it has only 55 clauses. There are 7 schedules which set out important details in putting the legislation into effective use. I suppose it is true to say that the main point of the legislation is that for the first time it decides on a common fee that will be charged and makes provision that fund and Commonwealth benefits combined will result in a patient's having to pay never more than $5 for a single medical treatment. The many medical benefits funds - and although there are many of them in Australia 1 will not be sidetracked into discussing whether there should be fewer or more funds - must be giving satisfaction, otherwise people would be leaving the smaller organisations and changing to the funds that are giving satisfaction. The funds charge different premiums to their subscribers in different States. In respect of the common fee this legislation makes provision for variations from State to State. The benefits that are to come from the medical funds - the actual dollars and cents - vary from Slate to State according to conditions under which the subscribers have taken out medical benefits policies. 
Schedule No. I is the important schedule for the average recipient of benefits, and also for the medical profession, it sets out the rales of Commonwealth benefit. The Minister's second reading speech states that 340 medical services are included for general practitioners and/or specialists. I he patients will receive the benefits of the higher refunds for specialist services if they are referred by a general practitioner to a specialist practising that speciality. In my view one of the weaknesses of the national health scheme has arisen - not from a legislative point of view, but from the viewpoint of the medical profession - when the old trad tion has not been followed of the family doctor referring a patient, if he thought fit, to a specialist. Even under the present scheme the return is greater to a patient who is referred to a specialist. If the patient goes direct to the specialist the fund benefit is much smaller than it is if he is referred to the specialist. I believe thai this is where the medical profession has gone astray. It has not kept to what I think we all believed was the tradition, namely, that the specialist did not see a patient direct from the street; the specialist saw only a patient who was referred to him by a general practitioner. 
This Bill sets out the machinery by which specialists will be registered and accepted as specialists under the legislation, although the Minister pointed out in the second reading speech that the actual registration of specialists in the Australian community is the responsibility of the States. I have referred to the provision in the Bill to the effect that the greatest cost to a patient for a medical service will be $5. 
I believe that in my State of Tasmania particular problems face members of the medical profession. I cannot speak about the situation in the other States because 1 have no direct information on it. But it is my belief that members of the medical profession in Tasmania - both general practitioners and specialists - kept their fees down so that when the patient received his bill he received by way of refund, in the medical benefits fund payment and the Commonwealth benefit, a fairly large percentage of the doctor's bill. I know of many doctors in Tasmania who, when people are in financial distress, are quite happy to receive only the cheque that comes from the benefits fund, including the Commonwealth benefit, and to go without the extra charge that they can make quite legally. 
But, if the Commonwealth pegs the fees of Tasmanian doctors; - both general practitioners and specialists - at those operating How, when (he doctors have kept their fees down in fairness to the community and in an effort to make the national health scheme work, it will create a financial problem as far as the income of general practitioners and specialists in Tasmania is concerned and in the years ahead we will have the problem that there will not be the enticement for specialists in particular to come to Tasmania because under this system their fees will be pegged if. they keep within the common fees. I have set out the problem, but I am prepared - I believe that the general run of practitioners in Tasmania will agree with me - to get this legislation into operation and then, on the basis of /acts, to put a case to the Minister for 
Health and the Government as to what weaknesses have been shown up and what jj needed to ensure that the medical profession receives a fair deal and that there is an income incentive for doctors to specialise and to come to a State such as Tasmania where, of course, we will need some specialists in all branches of medicine. 
I do not propose to say much more at this stage. I believe that there will be debate on certain aspects in Committee. I cannot agree with the amendment moved by the official Opposition - the Australian Labor Party. It really means nothing. It is just a recitation of words, spelling out that Party's Socialist policy but making no effort to put that policy into operation. Therefore, it is not worthy of further comment. Although I believe that the amendment moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party is one that could bring action, I plead with members of that Party not to force the issue. Let us get the legislation into operation. Members of the medical profession have been awakened to their responsibilities to get together and to put a combined and united case to the Government on any anomalies that may be proved to exist in this amended national health scheme. 
I do not believe that the Government can in any way be complained about for slow action in respect of this legislation. As I pointed out in my opening remarks, the original legislation was introduced in 1953 and this is the third time the Parliament has been called upon to look at it. I believe that in the long run this scheme will prove of great value to the greater number of people in Australia. Let us remember that there are other people who are already covered by the pensioner medical service and a very large number of people who are covered by our repatriation services. I support the Bill. 

 Senator TURNBULL (Tasmania) - I wish to make a personal explanation.  Senator Marriott  stated just before the dinner suspension that I had appointed myself to the position of a specialist at the Royal Hobart Hospital. The facts of the matter are as follows: It is true that at the time in question I had just become Minister for Health in Tasmania. I had been an honorary dermatologist at the Launceston General Hospital for more than 3 years, if not 4 years. I then moved to Hobart, and a part time officer of the Department of Health, who had taken on the job of honorary dermatologist at the Royal Hobart Hospital as  8  fill in job, resigned his position. The Board of the Hospital then appointed me. I myself had nothing whatever to do with the appointment. 
I shall be brief in my remarks. I believe that honourable senators are in danger of accepting hastily an amendment to this legislation which may have far reaching effects. The chamber had only just taken a vote after a division on another amendment and honourable senators were finding their places when  Senator Turnbull  rose in his place and said that he wanted to move a further amendment. He read it once. As far as I am aware his amendment is not in writing. Nobody in this chamber has been able to study the wording of his suggested amendment to the legislation.  Senator Turnbull  hardly explained his amendment at all. Previous parts of the debate were referred to. 
I am not attacking  Senator Murphy  personally; I am only trying to relate what I believe to be the true situation, but  Senator Murphy  rose and said that he thought the proposed amendment of  Senator Turnbull  was a good idea. He then resumed his seat. I do not think that  Senator Murphy  will disagree with me or say that I have been unfair in saying that he has been carrying on conversations, as is his right, with other members of the Opposition, but no real speeches have been made which clarify the situation. 1 understand that the Standing Orders have not been adhered to in that  Senator Turnbull's  amendment has not been circulated. In fact, it has not been committed to writing and placed in the hands of the Clerks. I do not think that, apart from  Senator Turnbull,  there is any honourable senator in the chamber who could tell you.  Mr Chairman,  the wording of  Senator Turnbull's  amendment. 
He may be able to do so. 
I am not the only one who does not know. In all sincerity I point out to honourable senators that an amendment of this nature should be very carefully considered because in my opinion it introduces into the field of the so-called national health scheme or the medical benefits scheme quite a new phase. The amendment may be of great merit. 1 think I should point out that it is known by anyone who is interested in the affairs of the dental profession that the Australian Dental Association wishes to introduce a dental benefits scheme but it has not been able to prepare one which it would recommend to the Government that it should institute. The adoption of  Senator Turnbull's  amendment might be of benefit, or it might be of great harm to this proposed scheme because it would mean that part of the dental services performed at present would come under the National Health Act. This scheme may have many loopholes in it when it is put into practice after royal assent has been given to the Bill. I am not against  Senator Turnbull's  amendment but I do believe it should  be  calmly considered. Perhaps  Senator Murphy  could enlighten me on it. 
1 should like to caution the Senate about accepting this amendment, for the reason put forward by  Senator Turnbull.  But there is one other aspect. This country is being served by a national health scheme on a contributory basis. While this Government remains in power, it appears that this will be the national health service. Therefore, I believe that we as a Parliament should do all we can to encourage people to join medical benefit funds of their choice, because no-one in this world knows from one moment to another whether he will be struck down by illness or injured in an accident and incur heavy hospital and/or medical costs. If it gets abroad, as a result of this legislation coming into the Senate at this time, that the waiting period for receipt of Commonwealth and/ or fund benefits has been wiped out people will take a risk, as  Senator Turnbull  suggests. They will not insure until the enemy of illness or accident strikes. 
Although there is criticism in some quarters of the reserves held by the funds, surely it must be agreed that the amounts of contributions and the benefits paid are worked out on an accurate actuarial basis, and the whole of this working out would be shot to ribbons if people could, as  Senator Turnbull  suggested, insure for the length of the illness, then stop making payments to the funds for 6 months, 1 year, 2 years or 5 years and then insure again. I know that as a family man it costs me $20.35 every 3 months to insure for hospital and medical benefits. If I get ill, or if one of my family gets ill and it is a serious illness which warrants an operation, it will cost the fund and the Commonwealth a lot more money than the S20.35 which I pay in contributions to the fund every 3 months. I could let my membership lapse at the end of 3 months and probably for a year or 2 years I could pay nothing into the fund until another illness or accident struck my family. As there would be no waiting time I would know that I would receive the benefits. If we allowed this I believe that we would be aiming a very dangerous blow at the stability of the funds and also imposing a very heavy cost on the revenue, and we would be encouraging - which I believe we should not encourage - people not to join funds, not to carry medical and hospital insurance. 
I bring up the report of the Joint Committee of the Australian Capital Territory on the milk industry in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I ask for leave to move a motion to take note of the report. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is he able to say whether and if so, when his Department will vacate the flying boat base at Rose Bay. Sydney? To whom and under what conditions will the base be handed over? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy, ls the Minister aware thai some of the opposition to the proposed extension of the area of the Garden Island naval base in Sydney Harbour has been caused by the belief in authoritative circles that, with the proper and efficient land utilisation of the area, further encroachment on the harbour would not be required? Will the Minister ask his colleague to have this aspect examined by experts in land utilisation in order to see whether the proposed extensions are really required? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In connection with the forthcoming visit to Australia of the Soviet Minister for Agriculture, is it known whether he will endeavour to use his possible powers of persuasion on members of the Australian Labor Party and the Democratic Labor Party to urge them to cease their objection to the partial lifting of the ban on the export of merino rams? 
There was a little cynical laughter when I suggested that the Senate did not understand what it had agreed to and therefore did not understand what it had in fact knocked out of the Bill. We are now in the situation where the Committee has expressed approval that there be included in the Bill a paragraph which reads: 'Such other information as the Minister requires to be included'. 1 suggest that if the Committee knows What it has left in, what it has added and what it wants to add, some honourable senators should be able to say: 'This line in (i), (j), (k), (I) or whatever the letter is will appear in the printed document'. At the moment it does not appear to me that that is known. We have an amendment to the Bil! before us which refer to paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h). We are told that paragraph (h) is out. We are told: 'We want paragraph (h) in, but we cannot have paragraph (h) in because there is a new paragraph (h)'. I want to know what letter precedes the line that we are asked to : agree to, namely: 'Such other information as the Minister requires to be included'. Being told that, I believe that the Committee should be told what remains in the Bill from paragraph (a) down to whatever letter is now signified. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [9.36] - As I understand it, and I believe this to be correct.I think this is the result of the motion thatI moved a few moments ago. The proposed new section 76a (2.) would read as follows: 
contributions payable to the fund: 
other amounts payable to the fund; 
medical fund benefits or hospital fund benefits payable out of the fund; 
other benefits payable out of the fund; 
management expenses; 
other amounts payable out of the fund: 
the balance of the fund as at the end of that year; 
such other information as the Minister requires to be included: and I believe the following 2 paragraphs would follow: 
details of how the reserve fund has been invested; 
details of direct or indirect interest in shareholdings held by directors of the fund in organisations in which the fund's reserves have been invested... 
I do not want to oppose any suggestion that the leaders may have about adjourning. My reason for rising is that my mental arithmetic is not working too well at this stage and I have not had the good fortune to see any accounts from physiotherapists. I have no idea how much a visit to a physiotherapist costs. The point is that we are laying down in a schedule what a fund will pay and what the Commonwealth will pay as a benefit, but I doubt whether we know how much a physiotherapist will charge. Therefore I ask whether we are laying down amounts that are insufficient to provide a fair return or whether we are laying down amounts which will mean that the return for physiotherapy will be greater pro rata than that for other medical services. 1 believe that this is another reason why we should talk about this in the brightness of another day. 
1 hope that the Committee will not agree to this addition to the legislation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  when offering the support of the Opposition to the proposed amendment gave as his reason the fact that the Minister in opposing the amendment had stated certain reasons why the Committee had taken action in respect of certain drugs which had been mentioned by  Senator McClelland,  who moved the amendment. We are deciding here and now whether, when the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee has made a recommendation to the Minister for Health concerning putting drugs on or taking drugs off the list and the Minister has agreed with Committee's recommendation, the names of the drugs and the reasons why they are being put on the list or taken off the list shall be tabled in order that the Senate may know the reasons. 
Obviously, we will then debate the reasons and decide whether the Senate assembled here in the national Parliament agrees that this drug or that drug should be taken off the list of drugs available under the national health scheme. In other words, the insertion of this amendment into the legislation will mean that the Senate will be setting itself up as the body which ultimately will decide whether a drug shall be available under the national health scheme. 
We will become the decision makers in respect of the availability of certain drugs, drugs that an expert committee containing doctors, pharmacists and pharmacologists have decided should not be available. We would be putting that provision into legislation which should last a number of years. 
At present we have I medical man, a senator, proclaiming the reasons why this amendment should be supported, lt is interesting to note that the honourable senator in his speech in support of the amendment used the term 'we'. 1 wonder whether the Australian Medical Association, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians, the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners or any other of the integrated parts of the medical profession of Australia are included in the regal 'we' that the honourable senator used. 1 doubt that it would be the AMA. I doubt thai he would be the spokesman in the national Parliament for the AMA particularly as in his speech during the second reading debate he was, if 1 remember correctly, a severe critic of the Association, lt may be that at some time in the future the Senate will not have a medical man, a pharmacist or a pharmacologist in its numbers, yet if we add this amendment to the legislation we laymen would have the right to say: Although the experts have advised the Minister that this drug should not be available we believe that it should be available'. We would be giving ourselves the right to say that. 
There is a further danger. The speech that we heard in favour of the amendment was a 30 minutes or 40 minutes talk on the rights and wrongs and the properties of various drugs prescribed either individually or 3 together or several mixed in a capsule. No real reason was put to the chamber why il should be the judge of what drugs should or should not be made available to the Australian public. We had 1 medical man giving his opinion on certain drugs which have been treated in a certain way over the years by the experts. Without developing this into a debate on drugs, I believe that I have given 2 cogent reasons why the Committee should reject this amendment. Finally I ask honourable senators not to make the Parliament the judge of what drugs shall be prescribed for the people of Australia under the national health scheme. 
I, as  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, am not divulging any information that has been put to the Committee and which should not be divulged when I support the remarks made by  Senator Cavanagh,  who is a member of the Committee which is presently conducting its inquiry. No member of the reading public of Australia could deny that the bulk of the headlines given to evidence before our Committee in public session have been to the effect that the medical profession is largely responsible for the high degree of drug addiction in Australia. Sworn evidence has been given to the Committee in public, and it has been reported in the newspapers, that the people of this country are drug orientated. As  Senator Cavanagh  has mentioned, the people say: 'There is a drug for this illness and a drug for that illness'. We have evidence to show that there are as many drug dependent people in Australia as there are alcoholics. Therefore, with all the sincerity that 1 can conjure up and for the reasons that I have given I ask honourable senators not to let us become the arbiter. Do not let the Senate become the place where opinions on drugs and drug taking can be debated by we who are laymen who have not sufficient knowledge to advise the people of Australia as to specific drugs. I. hope that the amendment will be defeated. 

 Senator TURNBULL (Tasmania) 9.I7] - / do not think I need reply to that last speech. Firstly, I do not think the Minister has read the amendment because she said that this will affect all drugs that go on the list of drugs. In fact it affects only those drugs which are rejected, so it is restricted to a certain number. As has been pointed out, these eminent people should not be ashamed of their reasons. Secondly, the Minister is rather naive in claiming that I am wrong in saying that you cannot use the drugs. She said: 'You can use the drugs'. But of course she did not listen to me. f said that you can use them but you have to pay for them, and no doctor ever orders them privately. 
The Minister went on to say that this Committee has advice from all specialised committees, but she did not answer me about the latest antibiotic restrictions. Were they referred to the antibiotic committee? Were the restrictions imposed as recommended by the antibiotic committee? 1 can tell honourable senators now that they were not referred to the antibiotic committee and the restrictions imposed are not what the antibiotic committee would want. So the Minister erred completely in that respect It is not her fault. She acts upon the advice given to her. The Minister said that some drugs can be monitored. Because I knew that this legislation was coming up for discussion I wrote to the Minister and asked whether the Antibiotics Reference Committee had met lately. I understand that it meets once a year. It has not met as yet this year but is to meet in June. No information was sought from the Committee in respect of the drugs to which I referred and I challenge the Minister to deny that 
Specialist's are members of the Antibiotics Committee and if the use of any drug should be restricted it is Penbrittin. I am not saying that I want the use of Penbrittin restricted, but applying the same rules that apply to other drugs the Committee should restrict its use. I am glad that it has been released because it saved one of our senators the other day. In the list of pharmaceutical benefits for specified purposes one or two circumstances arc stated in which Penbrittin can be used. General practitioners are disregarding that straight away. No mention is made of acute pulmonary disease, which is the complaint for which it should be used. No mention is made of sub-acute bacterial endocarditis due lo strept. faecalis although Penbrittin is the best treatment for that. We are told that this Committee knows everything, but I have given 6 or 7 instances to illustrate that it does nol. lt is possible to get 6 or 7 different opinions from lawyers and the same is true of doctors. Because these people say that this drug should be used in certain circumstances you cannot use any other drug. 
I forgot to refer previously to the drug companies who spend millions of dollars - and make millions of dollars - in developing drugs. They would like to know why their products are declared to be out. Surely that is sufficient reason for supporters of a private enterprise Government to vote for this amendment. 

 Senator Dame ANNABELLE RANKIN (Queensland - Minister for Housing) [9.28] -  Senator Murphy  seemed to be a little concerned about the way a number of the Committee would be voting. I would like to make il clear to him that I am opposing the amendment. I would not want to leave him in any doubt. I oppose it for the reasons I gave earlier.  Senator Turnbull  - he used words in this vein, if they are noi the exact words - challenged the Minister to state the time when the Antibiotics Reference Committee dealt with Lincomycin. In February 1965 the Antibiotics Reference Committee of the National 
Health and Medical Research Council made a recommendation to the Director-General that Lincomycin should not be made available as a benefit at that time. I think that replies adequately to the comment by  Senator Turnbull  that a recommendation had not been made by the Committee. 
I wish to seek some information in relation to this amendment in case it is carried. Frankly, one cannot in many respects oppose an amendment of this nature. It is deserving of serious consideration. Various arguments have been put forward. I suppose the situation is that no honourable senator who is present nor any adviser of the Government knows the extent of the extra financial burden which will be imposed on the Government and the medical benefit funds if the amendment is accepted by the Committee. It is also not known what will be the extent of the extra burden on the subscribers to the medical benefit fund. They may have to pay more for their medical benefits. There would be a further revenue loss, a minor one, in the taxation collected by the Government, too. 
One of the problems involved when one is dealing with amendments which come in at a late hour in the consideration of legislation is that one has had no forewarning. As one has had no forewarning one is unable to do any thorough homework on such an amendment. My recollection of parts of the Bill which refer to services that are provided is that a limit is put on the number of visits that will attract the fund and Commonwealth benefits, but that when that number is exceeded a different fund benefit and Commonwealth benefit are payable to the patient. We all know of cases where physiotherapy has to be given daily or weekly over a period of many years to people who are financially distressed because of the medical service and treatment that they require. All I ask is that  Senator Turnbull  give us an idea whether his amendment would mean that every visit to a physiotherapist, over an endless period of time, if that were required, would attract the full fund and Commonwealth benefits as proclaimed in the amendment. Would it not be wise and right to put a limit on the number of visits that would attract benefit? 
 I address a question to the Leader of the Government in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Industry, ls it not a fact that, because of either the lack of desire or the inability of the Egyptian Government to reopen the  Suez  Canal as an important shipping route, the South African ports of Capetown and Durban have become 2 very important ports in the trade lifeline between the United Kingdom and this part of the world? 
If what I am about to ask has been answered already I make no apologies for asking my question. I must say quite frankly - I have had to say this before - that the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  completely ignores you,  Mr Temporary Chairman.  On this occasion he was aiming his remarks at or towards  Senator Byrne  and could not be followed by me and, I am sure, by anyone else on this side of the chamber. Therefore our ignorance is not our own fault. In addition, I want to say that even as a layman among so many legal people in this chamber I dread and fear the results of hastily conceived amendments that may or may not be drafted by the expert draftsmen who attend to our legislation. For all I know, these are not hastily conceived amendments. They may have been drafted by the best in the land. Obviously  Senator Byrne  had no great length of time in which to examine them but he picked out a superfluous word and I believe that in private conversation it was agreed that the word 'and' should be deleted. That drew my attention to the amendment. Proposed section 23 (3.) states: 
The Director shall be paid such remuneration as the Parliament provides and such allowances as are prescribed, and on such other terms. . . . 
What are the other terms on which he is to be paid? Are there other terms under which this person is to be paid? I query this, although it may have been explained. The proposed new sub-section further states: 
. but until the first day of January, One thousand nine hundred and seventy-one, such remuneration, allowances, terms and conditions shall be as are prescribed. 
Does that mean that when these amendments which are being passed in Committee in this House of review become law - if they become law - this Parliament before 1st January will have some need or requirement to take parliamentary action in respect of salaries and allowances on such other terms as become effective after 1st July? Is there clarification in anyone's mind? Are we doing the right thing in this matter as a legislature? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. If a Commonwealth Public Service document is stolen and copied, which in itself, as I understand it, is a dishonest action and a breach of the Public Service Act. is a senator who tables what purports to bc a copy of the document guilty of aiding and abetting the Commission of a felony? 
I address my question without notice to the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities. Has the Australian Tourist Commission assessed the value to the tourist industry of the work of the National Trust which strives to preserve some of this nation's many and valuable historic buildings, and has it given any consideration to seeking Commonwealth financial support to the Trust for this purpose? The Minister would be aware of the generous support given throughout Australia by people who are keen to preserve this part of our heritage, and of the support given by State and local government. If this aspect has not been considered by the Tourist Commission, would the Minister agree that this is a field of worthwhile endeavour to which it could give some attention before the buildings fail under the machinery of the wreckers because of the lack of finance to have them purchased for posterity? 1 ask. in the word of the 'Hobart Mercury', could those of us in the new city - Canberra - help save an architectural heritage and by financial help save those things which should be safeguarded because of their nationally intrinsic values? 
Does the Minister representing the Attorney-General believe that the right of freedom of speech of members of parliament and the democratic rights of individuals are being eroded when a member of parliament who makes a statement supporting the policy of his federal leader is tried and suspended from his party and is not permitted to attend a meeting of that parliamentary party although he has appealed against his expulsion? Of course, I refer to the case  of  the honourable John Galbally? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator 
Bull) -  Senator Wright,  are you speaking to the point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT'-  Order!  1  think that the Minister must answer the question within the responsibility of his portfolio. 
My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. Can the Minister advise the Senate whether Australia's pavilion at Expo 70 in Osaka is proving an adequate attraction to visitors? Is it proving as popular as Australia's display at the 1967 exposition in Montreal, Canada? Are there any signs of benefits in the form of trade and tourism Rowing to Australia as a result of our participation in Expo 70? 
 My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Will he ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport to comment on the report in today's 
Canberra Times' that the Australian Japanese container shipping service is doing poor business and the situation is liable to get worse because of the excess of cargo space over the volume of cargo offering, particularly on the Australia to Japan leg of the service, and because further ships are to be added to this run? Also will he comment on the criticism of the poor container berth facilities in Australian ports which are said to cause the slow turn round of the container ships? If such adverse conditions continue, will not this have an adverse effect on freight rates? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. ls it not a fact that under Government policy Trans-Australia Airlines is supposed to work on a profit making basis but when u is required to operate a noneconomic run it is subsidised by the Government? If the answer to thai question is yes, will he, as Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, ask his colleague whether that policy could be applied to the Australian National Line so that the increased freight rates being charged on the Bass Strait run could be taken away and Tasmania would not have to subsidise the losses made on the run to Darwin? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber. Because of the serious economic harm that could come to Australia from the threatened national strike next week and because of the widespread difficulties and loss of wages it would cause, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate suggest to the Prime Minister that the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial radio and television operators be asked to make time available to the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Whitlam,  and the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party,  Senator Gair,  to make an appeal to all employees to resist the call for strike action, which is intended to be a protest against the Commonwealth Budget, as such action would not only harm Australians generally but would also delay the economic good effects that most reliable commentators expect to flow from the Commonwealth Budget? As this is a time of great national importance, should not the parliamentary leaders of the nation be asked to appeal to the widest possible audience so that their views may be universally known, because it is hoped to be a unanimous call to resist the strike proposal? 
It is the Governments job to assess the  needs of the  nation as a whole and it is perhaps inevitable that some sections of the community will feel that some interest should have been given greater prioity. The Government, must have regard to the overall national interest. The Budget is aimed at promoting the sound economic growth  of  the country whilst meeting the needs of the State governments and our objectives in the fields of defence, social welfare and assistance to rural industries. In addition,  of  course, substantial income tax  relief  has been brought to those in the middle and lower income groups. As regards the call by the Australian Council of Trade Unions for a strike over the Budget, I  cannot  see how this could advance either the general welfare of the community or the welfare of that section of the community represented by the ACTU. As regards the Public Service and the call to strike, I would not be prepared to make any comment about that because it is a purely hypothetical proposition. Going on to the part of the honourable senator's question  in  which he suggests that there should be an appeal to the nation through the- 
My question is supplementary to the one put by the Leader of the Opposition to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I know that rallies do not come under the admin  istrative responsibility of the Leader of the Government, but I hope that my question will not be ruled out of order or that the Leader of the Opposition will not try to have it ruled out of order. Is it not a fact that the leaders of the trade union movement in Australia know the parliamentary procedures and customs and would be aware of the fact that tonight the Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives will be making his political protest against a political document, or praising that document, and that, being aware of that fact and fearing the ineffectiveness of the reply that will be given to the Government's budgetary policy, they decided to use industrial activity at the behest of politicians? 
I ask the Minister in charge of Tourist Activities whether it is a fact that he recently visited the United States of America at the invitation of American Airlines? What advantages to Australian tourism does the Minister see in the institution of the new air service by this airline? 
I hope the Senate will agree to the motion as put. 1 do not believe that the matter has been slipped under the door hurriedly to try to force us to follow what the House of Representatives wants. This idea has been canvassed very freely for the last 15 years, to my knowledge. Perhaps the powers that be in the various parties who have communications with their colleagues in the House of Representatives heard that the House was to discuss this matter and that it was to be discussed by the Senate and perhaps they could have tipped us the wink before the decision was made. To me, it makes no difference. I want to point out to the Senate why I think we would be well advised to accept this motion. If we defeat the motion and maintain our present cycle of sittings - that is, 3 weeks on and 1 week off - and if the House of Representatives adopts the new procedures, I believe we will find that one or both Houses of Parliament will be sitting for at least 3 days in every week of the sessional period. That will mean that in each cycle the Senate will have a week when it is sitting on its own and later in the cycle will come the week when the House of Representatives will be sitting on its own. 
As Chairman of a joint select committee of the Parliament, I believe that that will make the calling of sittings of joint select committees very difficult; whereas if both Houses were sitting in uniformity so far as the weeks of sitting go, these joint select committees could programme their meetings and get on with their work. The motion leaves it to us to decide later what days in each of the 2 weeks we will sit, if we adopt the new cycle. My only request in that respect is that we do not leave that too much in a state of airy-fairy indecision because chairmen of committees have to programme the work of their committees; they have to alert their members and witnesses have to bc on call. It is this indecision, which is demonstrated by our not meeting tonight or on Fridays when it was proposed that we might, that is killing the effective organisation of the work of committees. I believe that it is for the good of the Parliament - and that means its members - that wc adopt the same cycle as the House of Representatives. It would be very hard on the staff if one House of the Parliament was to be in session for every week of the sessional period. 1 do not know what the listeners to the broadcasts of the proceedings would think. If we adopt the same cycle as the House of Representatives at least the listeners will get a week off in which to enjoy the programmes that would be broadcast normally if the proceedings of Parliament were not being broadcast. 
I present the First Report of the Publications Committee. Copies of the report have been distributed to honourable senators. Report - by leave - adopted. 
1 rise to take part in this Budget debate because, as a Government supporter in the Senate, I believe that the Parliament should have every opportunity to debate this motion for the tabling of the papers. The Budget is the most important document brought down in any Parliament in any year, so important that the first reaction to the Budget by the Opposition was that it would have it defeated. Members of the Opposition knew that they, together with those who occupy the centre benches, could by joining together out-number the senators within the Government parties and, on a vote, throw out the Budget papers. For all they knew they might even have been joined by one or more honourable senators from this side of the chamber because we have the freedom to vote how, when and where we like. Sometimes it is not until we have spoken to a measure that it is known whether we are supporting it. 
All the indications were there that the Australian Labor Party would endeavour to cause the defeat of the Government in the Senate on the Budget paper. I believe that such a defeat would have meant a general election with perhaps a double dissolution of the Parliament. This would have provided an opportunity for the people to ask: After 21 years of Liberal and Country Party coalition Government, do we require a change? Has an alternative government come over the horizon from out of the wilderness? And so the debate started in the Senate on a Wednesday evening with a speech by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy).  We must always emphasise that he is the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate because he is terribly frightened lest people readme Hansard should think he is the Leader of the Opposition, the leader of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party, who is, of course, the Leader in another place,  Mr Whitlam. Senator Murphy  feels that that would not do his political reputation any good. 
So the stage was set for a fighting debate and  Senator Murphy  took 27 minutes of at least an hour that he would have been granted in talking over the air to a listening public. Later that night my colleague  Senator Rae  took part in the debate and had an experience that I have not witnessed in this place in 17 years. He talked to Labor Party benches which were not occupied; they were as vacant as the minds of those who usually sit in them. 
I believe that it is typical of the courtesy that I can expect from my friend and colleague of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse,  Senator Georges,  that he has agreed to represent his Party in this important debate and to honour me with his presence. Honourable senators opposite show a complete and utter disregard for their political responsibilities when they will not enter the debate. Is it because they are so overwhelmed by the shattering internal blows being delivered to them, conference after conference, and that they cannot concentrate on politics today? The Opposition Whip comes into the chamber lonely and disconsolate; he cannot get his colleagues behind him. This is the situation we find - not an Opposition  speaker  ready to put forward concrete criticism of the Budget papers, not one to stand up and say what Labor would do if it were in Government or to say: 'We will send you to the people in a state of disarray.' With their internal takeovers they have forsaken the people of Australia while they lick their wounds and cure their sores. 
I want to talk about the Budget because it should go on record, even if very few Labor people are listening, that this Budget is anything but the deceptive and negative document that  Senator Murphy  suggested in his amendment, which was hardly supported by his speech. Is it negative to put into operation a promise and to go further than the promise by reducing direct income tax payable by the lower and middle income group by $228m in what is left of this financial year? Is that deceptive? ls it negative? We come then to social services, health, repatriation and housing for which the Budget provides S 1,820m of the people's money, an increase of SI 57m over last year. Apparently that is deceptive in the eyes of the Labor Party, the so-called alternative government. I refer next to education. If ever a House of Parliament has debated education it has been this Senate in the last 4 or 5 years in what 1 termed earlier as the era of the academics in charge of the 
Labor Party. In this deceptive, negative document the Government has announced that it is to spend S3 12m on a part of administration which it has no constitutional requirement to finance. That S3 12m is an increase of $63m over the expenditure on education last year. Is it negative or deceptive to increase by 25 per cent in one financial year the vote for education? 
I refer next to the amount to be paid to the States under the Commonwealth and State financial agreement, an agreement which is a problem and which is one part of the administration that 1 believe needs to be cleaned up. I think I was almost in agreement with the Australian Democratic Labor Party, which initiated the debate. There is need for an inquiry into Commonwealth/State financial arrangements. The Australian Labor Party claims that the Government is being negative and deceptive in this Budget. But the Commonwealth is returning $2,708m to the States, which represents an increase of $29 1m. This is described as negative and deceptive by a political party which not only has vacant seats in this chamber tonight but also has vacant minds. 
The Government is also providing over $200m in this Budget in external aid, which is not a bad donation. It is also providing assistance to primary and secondary industry. Certain social service benefits have been increased. The Budget provides for $21 5m in direct assistance to the rural industries, which were completely ignored by the mover of the amendment in his contribution to the debate on the Budget. This represents an increase of $77m over the amount of assistance provided last year. I know that the Postmaster-General's Department comes in for a lot of criticism when trunk line calls are delayed or people cannot get telephones connected to their premises. All sorts of minor forms of criticism aredirected at this Department. But, the Government will be providing from revenue on amount of $408m for capital works. I believe it is true to say that Australia has high standard internal and external telecommunications networks. We are more than keeping abreast of the times. Yet the Government is said to be deceptive and negative in its approach! 
Australia is developing rapidly. People throughout the world are evincing great interest in our development. We are a lucky country because of our natural resources. Our good fortunes are not al) due to the Government. Through the initiative of our people, the great wealth and knowledge of private enterprise and the ability of the Australian work force, we are tapping our natural resources. We are enticing money for development from overseas sources. When it suite the narrow minded Australian Labor Party to do so, it criticises the Government for the amount of outside money which is coming into Australia to help us develop our resources. But the resources which are being developed are providing the work force with employment. I believe that we should be proud of the Australian worker. However. I am afraid that certain elements which are working their way into some of the unions are eating into the vitals of trade unionism and are spoiling what has become a very great and valuable body of working people. However, I have enough faith in the average Australian and in the good people we are bringing into this country from overseas to believe quite confidently that they will in the not too distant future be awake to those who are trying to eat into the vitals of the Australian economy. 
I believe that, just as the Victorian Executive of the Australian Labor Party has been told where it can go. the Communist agitators and others who seek to harm the country through the work force will be told where to go. If I must be sidetracked momentarily bv honourable senators opposite,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I would say that I believe the time is near when every ballot for the election of a union official and particularly every vote as to whether to go on strike will have to be conducted by officials in secret. This would be of greater help to a greater number of Australian workers than any other law or regulation in Australia. It would be a great advantage to the whole Australian economy. The Australian Labor Party seems to forget that the healthier the Australian economy is the better will be the living standards of the Australian workers, ft has forgotten about the welfare of the people and what can be done for them. Honourable senators opposite have negative, deceptive minds which try to pull down everything that this Government puts up for the good of Australia. If I get talking about defence I will criticise honourable senators opposite further. 
Australia, because of its natural resources, the ability and calibre of its people, and partly because of its stable Government, is progressing. However, I believe that there could be better government in Australia. The better the Opposition the better the Government. The only thing which kept the Labor Party in office in Tasmania for so many years was a very good, strong, unified Opposition. The situation today indicates - historians will record this and some commentators already see it - that a particular and peculiar political sickness is sapping the Labor Party's energies. In the years I have been here fantastic winds of change have been blowing through the Labor Party. I would not say a word about this if the Labor Party were not Her Majesty's Opposition. But it is and, as 1 have managed to attract some of its supporters into this chamber to hear me, I shall talk about it. It might do them good. I will not be sorry if it does them good. 
I believe that the sickness from which the Labor Party is suffering is political flatulence. We hear of such things as mad hatter's parties and the Leader of the Australian Labor Party talking about his Executive as witless men. We see the doors being closed at some hotels - not over a funeral parlour this time, I admit. The doors of some hotels were closed on  Mr Brian  Harradine. As someone said by way of interjection this afternoon, it has taken many years, for the Labor Party to wake up to the fact that  Mr Brian  Harradine was right and that he should not have been locked out when he was locked out. We have seen the extraordinary actions of the members of the Executive of the Labor Party who come from Brian Harradine's own State. What happened to the unity of the Labor Party in Tasmania? One section went one way and the other went another way. There is a right wing and the Poke wing. Unity is strength. The winds of change have blown them apart. So we find the Senate suffering in itself because of the sickness in the Australian Labor Party. From the subjects chosen for debate and from the lack of interest in debate displayed by the Opposition we find there is a one-track mind of pure unadulterated destructive criticism of Government policy. I am asked: 'Why is the Opposition here?" I am glad I have aroused some interest and honourable senators opposite are willing to learn. I do not deny the right of an opposition to critise but I do believe it is the right of every public man in this public forum - this national Parliament - to try to add something by way of speeches and representation to improve the lot of the people and to improve the Government. 
 I am going to start shortly but I am trying to help honourable senators opposite first. I believe it is important for a country to have a hardworking, capable, sincere, cohesive Opposition. We do not have that at this time. I believe the Opposition has lost all thought of national responsibility and is clouded with isms and with strife within its own organisation. I hope it soon gets over it. But as the winds of change have blown over Australia and are blowing through the Labor Party so, I am glad to say. they are blowing through this Senate. It does my heart good and pleases me to see developments for good coming within this Senate. As I look across this chamber I see honourable senators who have served on committees which have done a great amount of good. I believe the committee system is going to be a continuing value to the people of Australia.  Senator Murphy  quite rightly remarked on the Publications Committee on which he and I served as, from memory, did  Senator Buttfield.  The good from that Committee is still flowing and will continue to flow not only for the good of Parliament but also for the people as the years go on. That is a Committee on which action was taken and good is continuing to flow from it. 1 see  Senator Poyser  and I am reminded of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures. I remember that half way through the conduct of that inquiry we predicted that Australia would go metric. Australia is now on its way into the metric system of weights and measures. I am firmly of the belie' that if there had not been a Senate select committee on that subject the Government would not have realised that the time had arrived when Australia should join other nations in the cause of uniformity and efficiency and adopt the metric system of weights and measures. Then 1 remember  Senator Sir Denham  Henty, as he was then, now retired, whose name will live in his home town for many reasons, and in this Parliament. Above all, his name should live because it was he who personally woke the Government, the Government parties, the Senate and then Australia to the fact that pollution of the air and the water was with us as dangerous problems and a challenge to our security. As soon as those committees were set up arid report* flowed through the news media good came because State governments. local governments and industries- 
 The exception proves the rule and 1 would think that of all the remarks that  Sir Henry  Bolte, Premier of Victoria, has made off the cuff thai one will live the longest and be regretted by him the most. I refer to the remark that he would not read the Senate's report. Actually, I do not blame him for not reading the full report. I do not know that the Premier of a State would have time. But I hope he has seen to it that the relevant Ministers and heads of departments have not only read the report but are studying all angles to it. 
I must briefly touch on another committee of which I am privileged to be  Chairman  and from which 1 can only hope now that lasting good will flow to the people of Australia because of what it may recommend in the not very distant future. I refer to the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, lt was brought into the Senate - let us be honest and candid about it - by the Leader of the Opposition. I am never sure who had the first thought - perhaps the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair).  But the proposition was put forward and the Government agreed to the servicing of the Committee. Every Commonwealth Government department and every State Government is co-operating with this Committee which I believe is probably the first committee of the Senate to inquire into an important sociological question. 
I will say about this Committee at pre* sent what I have said in support of other committees in trying to give my view of the good which flows to the people of Australia through the Senate's entering this sphere of activity of committees. It is my belief that State Governments and Commonwealth Government departments have been wakened to their responsibilities. Interest has been engendered through the news media giving publicity. Dialogue has started between the various disciplines in the professions of medicines, pharmacology and pharmacy. In education, people are striving to get in first with ideas to help teach all age groups and all sections of the community of the dangers that face Australia if this question is to be faced in a definite manner. I hope the Senate will always be willing to carry on with its work of Senate select committees. 
A danger exists that there will be a perhaps mischievous intent to try to get  party  political questions brought in as subjects for discussion. I believe that if that kind of attempt succeeds it will ruin the Senate select committee system because no government worthy of its salt will allow a committee of Parliament to inquire into and report on something which is of specific policy or administrative responsibility. That is my view and I am sticking to it. We are about to see whether we can cope successfully with standing committees. This is a further wind of change which I hope is a healthy experiment. I hope it will be successful. That will depend on those who man the committees and the subjects which are given to the committees to inquire into. My view is that they should be subjects requiring immediate inquiry by fairly minded unbiased senators, male and female. 
Because of these changes I am convinced - 1 think perhaps for the first time tonight  Senator O'Byrne  will agree with me and my colleagues - that sincere true participation in the work of the Senate is now a full time occupation which in itself gives rise to personal and political problems. The longer the Parliament sits, the more committees that have to be serviced and the number of meetings that they require - the public does not realise that the committees will meet only when the Parliament is not in session - the more difficult will it be for senators to participate in the electoral life of their home States and attend to the people who send them here as their representatives. This is a problem which each of us will have to meet. 1 cannot give an answer to the personal problem but 1 am not crying about it. The public does not realise that one great problem which confronts all of us here is the loss of opportunity to spend time with our families. I believe that the average member of the public who pays any attention' to political life, even the commentators who write about us, and one commentator in particular who does nothing but ridicule the national Parliament and its members, has no idea of the sacrifice that members of the national Parliament make willingly in. the loss of home and family life. 
Let me make a further suggestion for improving the Senate. The difficulties of servicing committees and of solving the other problems which arise convince me that a suggestion I made a number of years ago when I was comparatively new in the Senate - it cannot be said that J am making it now at the latter period of my service in this place - is worthy of consideration. Tt is this: I do not believe that any Ministers of State should be in the Senate. 
There is nothing personal in this. I like all Ministers and I avoid as many as possible because I know how busy they are. I sincerely believe that the House of Representatives is the place where all the Ministers should be situated, and that each Minister should be represented in the Senate by, for the want of a better term, a ministerial under-secretary. I know that the Constitution would have to be altered to provide for this but I believe my suggestion to be very sensible and practical. We have 5 Ministers in the Senate with their own portfolios. They have a full time job. We are conscious too that they represent 5 other Ministers in another place, so they must handle not only questions but also all statements that are made by those Ministers and all legislation that is presented by them. This is a hopeless and a hapless task to put on human beings. People would be less inclined to call us - wrongly so - the rubber stamp of the other place if we were free of the domination of the Executive and if the Executive were only represented here. The undersecretaries, to give them  a name,  would have  a  chance to study the legislation that they would have to father through this chamber, and they would be better informed, keener in debate and of great assistance to the Parliament, irrespective of their Party. That is my  View  of the ideal Senate and I believe that serious consideration should be given to it. 
This is a House of review. It is not the executive chamber and was never meant to be the executive chamber. 1 believe that all those who are in the Executive should be gathered together in the executive chamber and be represented in this chamber by people of their own Party. The only minor alteration that I would want would be that there would be no questions without notice in the Senate. We would be better informed by getting proper answers to questions on notice, and it would be up to the under-secretary to see that the Minister concerned provided answers as soon as was reasonably practicable. 
I have given my reasons why I believe that the Budget before us is a wise one. Repatriation and social service benefits are of such importance that they should be dealt with when the legislation comes before us instead of being taken piecemeal in a general Budget debate. I hope to be able to speak to that legislation in due course. I believe that the Budget is in the interests of the Australian people as a whole. It does not worry me to hear  Senator Milliner  quote the criticism of various employer organisations and associations. That is a healthy sign. It shows that we are not being ruled by them, and it is nice to hear that from a Labor senator. We listen to the criticism from outside and we answer it. That is good. We do not mind criticism if it is constructive. I agree with the Budget and have given plenty of reasons why I disagree with the amendment proposed by the Opposition. In my view the amendment is couched in the weakest form of words that T have ever seen as an amendment to a document in the 17 years that I have been here. It masquerades as a censure of the Government, but because the Opposition is not game to mount the censure properly it has produced this piffling form of words as an amendment, hoping and praying that it will be defeated. The Opposition will get its answer and its desserts. 1 oppose the amendment. I scorn it. 1 support the Budget and congratulate the Government for producing it. 
1 rise to speak to the social service legislation and to voice my opinion on this legislation. I do not believe that the Government wants to stifle discussion or to hasten this legislation through. We know that it should be passed this week so that the legislation can come into effect on the date announced - which when it was announced, seemed early enough, or late enough - and so that the cheques can start going out. I have the privilege to be  chairman  of 2 parliamentary committees. Several weeks ago I decided that those committees would not attempt to meet on any of the Fridays during this period in case the Senate wanted time to discuss matters before it. Sitting on Friday this week would be quite in keeping with my outlook. In speaking to social service legislation I have never denied - and I hope I never will deny - the right of the Opposition to criticise the Government. I do not criticise the Opposition for not opposing the legislation. At present there is no opposition to the legislation. The Australian Labor Party has moved one major amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill and the Democratic Labor Party has tacked on an extra clause to that amendment but does not indicate opposition to the legislation. The amendment is merely the use of words to show some outlook as to policy. 
The Opposition, as the people must be reminded, in this debate has made it clear that it does not need to have any sense of responsibility to discuss this legislation because the spending of money and the raising of revenue are nothing to do with the Opposition. It bears none of the responsibility. I do not like to be sarcastic, but it is 21 years since the present Opposition was in power. Apart from my colleague,  Senator O'Byrne,  so few of its members were actually members of Parliament when the Opposition was in power that they have forgotten what is required to govern. They have forgotten what it is to be even a back bencher in a government that has to accept responsibility for the raising of money and for the expenditure of money. 
Members of the Opposition are very cutting in their criticisms of the Government's social service legislation. The Australian Labor Party is on record as the only Party since Federation to reduce the amount of the pensions. When we came into office. I believe it not unfair to say, we found the so-called National Welfare Fund in heavy deficit. T am a member of the Government parties. As such 1 very candidly state that I realise that the responsibility of a national government is all embracing. Every item of expenditure of the people's money is its responsibility, just as it has the responsibility to collect taxation. Above all. its main responsibility is the defence, security and development of this country as a nation. Under our Commonwealth and State financial relationships and the method of taxation in operation since World War II the States need, deserve and get a very large portion of the revenue that the Commonwealth collects from the people. 
I emphasise that when increases in expenditure are planned by a government, in order to pay that money to the people it must first of all find means of collecting it from the community as a whole. When a government looks at what it can do in the field of social service legislation it immediately has to bear in mind that it is duty bound to act similarly in respect of repatriation legislation, lt cannot act in one field without acting in the other. Once a government decides to grant an increase to all beneficiaries it is faced with a very heavy annual drain upon its revenue. 
The Hansard report of this debate is literally bristling with figures that have rightfully been cited. I will not add to them except to say that any increase in social service benefits concerns about 1 million people. I think it is fair to say that the Government, in almost 21 years in office, has followed very clearly a set pattern in respect of social service legislation. It has increased benefits where it has felt that they should be increased and could be increased. From year to year it has widened the scope of the ordinarily accepted benefits payable under social service legislation. What is also important, and cannot be denied, is that this Government has proved its great concern for people in need by developing and legislating for new types of social service benefit to cover even more people in wider categories of the population. 
From time to time the means test has been eased and recently the tapered means test was introduced. I do not have the time or the desire this afternoon to deal fully with the means test. I have done so in debates on previous Budgets because it is an aspect of social service legislation that I have studied very carefully. Frankly, at present I am opposed to the abolition of the means test. The reasons for my view will become evident as I develop my speech. With the development of the Government's policies in the field of social services many people are living happier and more comfortable lives. What is more important, they are living longer lives in happiness. That is the aim of the Government and it is also the Government's achievement. It must be the aim of this Government and every succeeding government to develop that policy even further. 
When dealing with social service legislation and answering criticisms of the Government's policy we have to realise that there is complementary legislation that affects the people. I have in mind legislation dealing with homes for aged persons, nursing subsidies, nursing home benefits and financial assistance for organisations such as Meals on Wheels - the Government has entered the field to help this brainchild of an association formed within the community. It has been developed. Because of the great demand for the valuable services provided by Meals on Wheels it was not able to keep the wheels turning, if I may paraphrase its name. The Government therefore gave monetary assistance and it has been of great benefit. 
I heard  Senator Buttfield  and  Senator Rae,  and there may have been other honourable senators, refer to fringe benefits. It might be just as well to record that a quite conservative estimate is that those fringe benefits average about $5 a week for each pensioner or beneficiary. Many beneficiaries under social service legislation would not need to take advantage of ali the fringe benefits available, or to keep taking advantage of the medical and associated benefits. However, there are others whose need is great and continuing. Many are helped literally to the value of many dollars a week throughout the period in which they draw social service benefits. When referring to the amounts of money paid as pensions each fortnight and in offering criticism it is unfair not to acknowledge that many fringe benefits are provided by the Government for the people. These are of great value in maintaining those people in a happy and healthy state. 
Some people claim that the benefits have not been sufficiently increased. They scorn the increase of 50c a week in the base rate pension. 1 admit that when I heard the increase was to be only 50c a week I was disappointed. However, after studying all aspects of the matter and reading the criticisms that have been offered it seems to me that in order to increase the social service benefits it would have been necessary for the Government either to increase taxation in certain fields or not to apply the reductions in taxation provided for in the Budget. We will be debating that subject at another time, (t was an announced part of the Government's policy to reduce income taxation. Seldom have I had more letters written to me on any subject by organisations beseeching me to do what I could to make the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  keep his promise. 1 am very glad that I had the moral fortitude and belief in our Prime Minister to write back to many organisations and say: T have no comment to make at the moment because the Prime Minister has said that this will be done. I believe it will be done. Let us wait until the Budget comes in before we start crying, criticising or inferring that the Prime Minister of Australia would mislead the people.' What happened? How right I was. The Prime Minister gave back even more than he had promised. 1 believe that higher taxation harms people in two ways. If it is in the form of indirect taxation or direct income taxation the burden would fall heavily upon the young people who are about to be married or who are married and are raising a family, lt is harmful to have heavy taxation in our developing country if the desire is to have a happy and prosperous family unit which is bringing more Australians into the world. This is one reason why the Government is reducing the taxation burden. High taxation also stops or slows down incentive. I believe that it would be very bad central government policy to do anything by way of taxation to stop the incentive of the work force. Australia's work force is not big enough. We want it to grow. The Government wants the work force to work as hard as it can under fair conditions and for fair rates of pay so that the gross national product of this country will increase. I believe that it is in this way alone that we can look forward to the provision of greater benefits on a larger scale under social service legislation. 

 Senator Davidson referred to the fact, as did many other honourable senators, that although honourable senators on this side of the chamber quite sincerely give credit to the Government for the provisions contained in this legislation they appreciate that there is poverty in our remarkably lucky and wonderful country. In my opinion the reasons for the pockets of poverty which exist are many and varied. Some of the poverty has been caused by unavoidable hardship, disaster and misfortune. Some of it has been caused by the fact that, through physical or mental incapacity, the persons concerned have been unable to earn during their working lives a wage sufficient to enable them to put aside some money for their retirement. But there are others whose poverty has been caused by what I have described previously as self inflicted wounds. However, since becoming  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse I would prefer to say that, through the misfortune and sickness of alcoholism or drug dependency, there are people who have spent their money unwisely, lowered their living standards and interfered with their working ability and thus have become a drain on the public purse. 
I do not think that legislation could be implemented by governments which would keep many of the people to whom 1 have referred well clothed and housed and in good health and happiness. Something more than what governments can do by way of implementing legislation and providing money is required. However, the Commonwealth Government must not slacken its efforts in this regard. 1 believe that we must be fair in our criticism of the Government. I have heard it said that it is the fault of the Government that some people are living in misery and poverty. The fact that a person is living in misery or poverty may be partly a fault of our society, it may be partly a fault of the personality of the person concerned and it may be partly the responsibility of the Commonwealth and/or State government, but it is a problem to which the community as a whole and parliaments in genera) should give serious thought instead of saying to the Commonwealth Government: You do not pay enough pension each fortnight to give these people a happy, healthy, comfortable home life'. 
We are fortunate in that throughout the various communities in Australia there are organisations which are playing their part in helping to overcome the problems of the people who, for whatever reasons, find themselves in poverty. The churches, charitable organisations, Legacy and the other ex-service organisations are some which come to mind very readily, as do Apex, Lions and the Red Cross. There are many other organisations throughout Australia which are playing a part which I believe government should not try to take over. Government should not try to dampen the enthusiasm of these organisations. It should, as far as possible, leave them completely alone and allow them to act as they so desire. All members of Parliament in Australia, no matter to which Parliament they belong, should give every possible encouragement and assistance to these organisations. It would be a sorry day for hundreds of thousands of Australians in many walks of life if anything were done to dampen down the work of the charitable organisations to which I have referred. In my opinion their place could never be filled by government. Government can only legislate to provide certain amounts of money and trained staff to oversee some of the community; it cannot get right into the pockets of poverty and solve or even attempt to solve the problems which exist there. 
It is because of the reasons T have given, and the fact that the Government has increased its expenditure this financial year on health and education as well as in many other fields which are of interest to the Australian community, that I am prepared to say that this Bill to amend the Social Services Act is a satisfactory one. I do not think I would ever be able to stand up and say that it was adequate but I believe that the Government has made a fair approach to the problem. This Bill is proof that the Government has a continuing interest in the welfare of the recipients of social services. Another thing I should say in fairness to the Government is that it cannot be accused of using social service benefits as a matter of political expediency. This prompts me to refer to the proposals of the Australian Democratic Labor Party, whose interest in my speech is obviously profound. Its theme over the years has been to take pensions out of politics or take politics out of pensions. This sounds a very good idea. T suppose all members of the Parliament would be quite happy if social service benefits could be organised in such a way that they did not have to be debated in the Parliament, but I believe that it is wishful thinking on the part of the Democratic Labor Party to put up a suggestion which there is no prospect of any responsible government ever accepting. 1 shall briefly give my reasons for making such a statement. What government would be able to say to the most honest and capable tribunal: :We are spending Si, 473m on social services this year. The public and the Parliament say that it is not enough. You have been appointed to tell us not only what social service benefits should be paid but how much should be paid each fortnight to each recipient. When you put in your report we will put it into legislative form.' We would be saying to this capable, honourable tribunal: Take the running of the economy of this country into your own hands, spend what you like on social services, and then when you have told us what you are going to do we will tell the people what we can do, if anything, for the development of this country in relation to health, hospitals, education, defence and grants to the States.' No central government with the financial powers that exist in the Parliament in Canberra today could ever hand the decision on social services to a tribunal. Therefore I oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Australian Democratic Labor Party on that ground. I believe it is impracticable, as much as J would like to see the party political side taken out of social services. 
I do not criticise the Opposition's amendment. It says that the increases proposed are inadequate. It does not say in what way they are inadequate. It says that social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. I think I have made my point that in many spheres, because of the tapered means test and the fringe benefits, our social service legislation is allowing many, many, many people to live happy, comfortable and longer lives. I have told honourable senators from my heart what I think about the pockets of poverty that I admit do exist in this country. In closing my remarks I only repeat to the Government the suggestion I made in my speech on the Budget last year, that is, that in each State of the Commonwealth there should be an amount of money available to the Director of Social Services and he should be authorised by regulations to pay for groceries, blankets and other requirements of people who, in his opinion, are the poverty stricken people who need help and who are not getting that help from somewhere else. These people in many cases would not be helped if the fortnightly pension were increased. But if a social worker could interview these people and find out that they needed groceries, clothes, blinds or curtains, then that social worker could report back. 
Legacy spends hundreds of thousands of dollars a year throughout Australia. This spending is never questioned because the money is given by the people of Australia to Legacy. The people who give the money know it is spent well. If Legacy can do it, if the Returned Services League Welfare Fund can do it, so can our Commonwealth public servants if they are given the power. I repeat that I sincerely believe it is a good idea that money be made available in each State office of the Department of Social Services to make payments on the spot in cases of poverty stricken people. I have pleasure in supporting the legislation. 
The Senate is debating a Bill to amend the Repatriation Act. Amendment of the Repatriation Act is a yearly exercise under this Government. I think I am correct in saying that in the 17 years in which I have been a member of the Senate it has been necessary to amend the Repatriation Act in some way each year.  Senator Bishop,  as the spokesman for the Australian Labor Party, has devoted a lot of his speech to the question which is raised so often of a full inquiry into all aspects of the repatriation legislation. I speak mainly for myself and not as a supporter of the Government when 1 say that I have always opposed the setting up of a parliamentary committee to inquire into repatriation. There is no doubt that, no matter what political party is in power, repatriation is a matter of government policy I put a similar view this afternoon in relation to the other social services legislation. It becomes an important part of the fiscal policy of the Government. I believe that during the course of a select committee of inquiry into repatriation there would be. quite naturally and understandably, party political clashes of opinion which do not occur when suitable and correct subjects are before select committees of the Parliament. We would find that a report would be issued with senators from one side of the chamber making certain recommendations and senators from the other side of the chamber making other recommendations. Then we would have the Government in the situation where it would be expected to put into operation the report brought down by the members of this select committee. Just as I oppose a tribunal for social services, I oppose a parliamentary select committee on repatriation, and I will continue to oppose it. 
I have had discussions with some members of the national executive of the Returned Services League and in the early days I argued against their supporting a parliamentary committee of this type. Gardually they came round, probably not because of anything I said, to advocating the setting up of a non-parliamentary committee. I do not oppose that idea. I think it has merits. If there is dissatisfaction amongst the parliamentarians and the leaders of the RSL about various aspects of repatriation - if they think the annual review of repatriation matters by the Government and by the Parliament is not sufficient - I would not oppose such an inquiry. It is very many years since the Repatriation Act was consolidated. However, as  Senator Bishop  tells us, we are going to have another discussion in the Senate in respect to an inquiry of some sort. 
I refer now to the Bill before the Senate. We realise that repatriation benefits result from promises made by governments of varying types and at various times - when recruiting for a war, while men and women are fighting in the war - and from representations that continue after the war when the ravages and results of war become known. If I may mention a personal matter very briefly - I am not trying to be humorous - my own father was blinded in France in the First World War. For some months after he came back to Tasmania he could not get a pension because there was no provision for blindness in repatriation arrangements. A delegation went to the then Prime Minister in relation to this discrepancy. He asked how many people would be involved, and when he was told he said: They are not worth worrying about.' However, that was one of the things that prompted the introduction of the Repatriation Act in 1920. There has been dissatisfaction in regard to various aspects of it, but in my belief it has been greatly improved as the years have gone on. 
There are 2 sections of the community which are vitally concerned with repatriation benefits. Firstly, there are the exservicemen themselves who are suffering from wounds or sickness or other ravages of war. Secondly - and equally importantly - there are the widows and the children of the deceased ex-servicemen. Each of these sections of the community in its own particular sphere is receiving some assistance under various clauses of the Bill now before the Senate. Some of the remarks I made this afternon in respect of social services could apply again to repatriation, but I will not repeat them. However, I do take up a point with  Senator Bishop.  1 understand he said that in deciding the amounts of benefits to be paid under this legislation the Government should not be looking at the economic effect or the inflationary effect it might cause; it should pay what is required to be paid to give a proper and fair deal to the recipients. I cannot believe that to be responsible government. These matters must be considered in the light of what the country can afford in relation to all its other commitments. It is irresponsible to say that the Government should not take into account economic effect. 
I disagree with it in relation to repatriation.  Senator Bishop  said that the RSL and other people were asking for increases which were not being granted under this legislation. Quite literally the senator was expecting the Government to toss Sim here, another Sim there, and another $2m somewhere else, without any realisation of the total amount he was asking the Government to spend. The greatest pity of it all - this adds to the irresponsibility, in my belief - was that not one word of constructive advice was given by the honourable senator as to how and if this money could be rightfully collected, from what section of the community and by what means it could be collected from the community to pay the pensions and the benefits that he so blithely suggests should be paid. I do not want to be unfair, but I believe it has become a habit for the Australian Labor Party in opposition to take the opportunity when discussing amendments to the Repatriation Act to express the attitude: 'Name a benefit, name an increase, and the Labor Party will support it regardless of whether it is right, proper or in the best interests of the country.' 

 Senator Bishop went back to 1950 to substantiate the arguments he put forward. Although he had recent figures available to show the percentage of increase that had or had not been made - and the general inference was that the increases were not great enough -  Senator Bishop  did not tell us the policy of the Labor Party in respect of repatriation when it was last in power, before it went out of office on 10th December 1949. But I would like to remind the honourable senator and other members of the Opposition who are so critical of this Government in respect to repatriation that the great 'Smith's Weekly* coined the memorable phrase: 
He whom caucus wishes to destroy, they first make Minister for Repatriation. 
If honourable senators cast their political minds back to 1946 and the years that followed they will remember that 2 Ministers for Repatriation, one after the other, were defeated by the votes of the people at elections in the State from which I am proud to come. That is what the people thought of Labor in office when it had the responsibility of a country which was,  I  admit, just out of a war - a terribly expensive war. Because of that the members of that Party should temper their criticism and be prepared to put up constructive thoughts as to how, why and when this money should come forward. As it is the Bill provides for at least 7 major increases in pensions. The pension for totally and permanently handicapped persons is increased; the intermediate rate is increased; the special compensation allowance is increased; both the war widow's pension and the domestic allowance are increased; the war orphan's pension is increased. For the war blinded there is a new provision for a recreation transport allowance. This is something that we all commend. 
Service pensions have been increased along the same lines as social service pensions. I do not intend to cite the increases. I am not ashamed of them; on the contrary, I am satisfied with them, in view of all the circumstances which are well known to the public. No doubt others will quote them, but I have not the time to do so. However, I should like to point out that the increased repatriation pensions will benefit more than 105,000 ex-servicemen and their dependants and, in a full year, will cost the Commonwealth an additional $8m. I believe that it is reasonable to say that the Government has proved its earnest desire to do what it feels within its responsibilities that it can do for beneficiaries of our repatriation scheme. In this legislation the Government is providing increased benefits for more than 105,000 people, which is a considerable improvement so many years after a war. 
The only other main item in the Bill to which I propose to refer is clause 3 which will amend section 14 of the principal Act. I congratulate the Government on this provision which shows that it is keeping an eye generally on repatriation throughout Australia. The clause provides: 
Where it appears to the Governor-General that an additional Repatriation Board is required for  a  particular State, the Governor-General may establish an additional Repatriation Board for that State . . . 
This provision is inserted in the Bill because the Repatriation Commission has at last realised that there have been too many frustrating delays in some States with applicants waiting for decisions from Repatriation Boards. If we pass this legisla tion we will give authority to the Government to constitute boards to overcome the lag in the hearing of cases. 
I propose now to make a request of the Government on a matter which may sound parochial but which in fact is not. Since 1965 I have been endeavouring to persuade the Minister for Repatriation to have the Repatriation Commission recognise that in Tasmania it is legal for people to approach dental mechanics direct and to go to them for the supply of and repair to dentures. Dental mechanics are legally licensed to deal with the public. The Commonwealth Government has recognised the sense and legality of the Tasmanian legislation and taxpayers in Tasmania who pay accounts from dental mechanics for work done may submit those' accounts and qualify for concessions under our income tax laws. I understand that Tasmania is the only State where dental mechanics are licensed in this way. I make a plea, not only on behalf of dental mechanics but also on behalf of ex-servicemen, that recipients under the repatriation scheme be authorised to arrange for work to be done in regard to dental plates by a direct approach to the repatriation hospital. At least in the 2 cities of Tasmania the supply of dentists is very short and there is a long delay if a person wants to have dental work performed. At present in Tasmania an ex-serviceman who has a right under the Repatriation Act to have dentures repaired must see a dentist who sends the work to a dental mechanic, who in turn performs the work and sends the dentures back to the dentist, after which the dentist sees the ex-serviceman again. It would be a great saving of time and of cost to the Commonwealth if it agreed to acknowledge the legality of licensed dental mechanics in Tasmania. 
After years of trial and error the dentists and dental mechanics in Hobart are working harmoniously together, so I do not believe that the dental profession would have one iota of opposition to what I have proposed. Opposition to the acceptance of dental mechanics in this way comes about because in repatriation headquarters it is said that because this is not done in Sydney and is not done in Perth it may not be done anywhere else. I believe that the federal organisations of dentists and dental mechanics are saying that this should not be allowed. I believe that the Minister and the Department have every right to make their own decisions in this matter and that, if what I propose is legal and considered to be required in Tasmania, ' the Commonwealth and the Commonwealthowned repatriation hospital should take advantage of the many benefits which would accrue to the Commonwealth and to ex-servicemen and women if the scheme were adopted. 
There have been many occasions in respect of various types of legislation where my State of Tasmania has led the field in Australia. It has led the field in regard to dental mechanics. I believe that the Minister and the Repatriation Commission should recognise the correctness and fairness of the case that has been put to them, repeated and then passed on to every Tasmanian member of Parliament for support and prove the old motto, which is Tasmania's claim, that we often lead while others follow. 
Finally I shall state briefly my reasons for opposing the amendment which has been circulated by  Senator Bishop  on behalf of the official Opposition. The amendment expresses the view that:  the pension rate for the TPI ex-servicemen, the general rate pensioners and war widows should not have been allowed to decline notwithstanding the proposed increases, in relation to average weekly earnings. 
This is an expression of opinion and one which I do not think carries weight. I propose only to go back to what I said in the main part of my speech prior to referring to this amendment, that I believe that in . the circumstances, in view of all its responsibilities, the Government has done a fair and just job in respect of repatriation. I am prepared to give my full and wholehearted support to the measure. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science seek from his colleague information whether and under what circumstances the Fisheries Division o the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation would carry out research to discover whether beds of scallops and/ or prawns exist in the Tasmanian waters of Bass Strait, as is firmly believed by fishermen who have not the facilities and equipment to undertake this important research? 
1 want to speak very briefly about the situation that has arisen in the debate. As I understood the position, the second reading debate on this Bill to authorise the levying of charges in respect of Commonwealth air navigation facilities and services was drawing to a close. The Australian Democratic Labor Patty had circulated an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. If carried, the amendment will have no effect on the legislation. If defeated, as it deserves to be in my opinion, nothing will be lost or won. The Australian Labor Party, having indicated in reasoned speeches its attitude to the Bill, wants to delay the passage of the Bill because it has not made up its mind collectively on whether it will vote for or against, the amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill. I say, with great respect to those who have tried to explain the awkward situation in which the Labor Party finds itself, that I honestly do not believe that any honourable senator opposite cannot make up his mind on whether this amendment should be supported or opposed. From the very reading of the amendment, I believe that any honourable senator should be able to make up his or her mind on whether he or she will support or oppose it. The amend men I to the motion for the second reading of the Bill reads:   but the Senate is of the opinion  that  the charges imposed on domestic and international airlines fur the hsc of Commonwealth aerodromes and facilities should be at an identical rate for all aircraft of the same type. 
If that amendment were carried it would have no effect on the airline companies or on the legislation. It could be of no possible help. It is an idea that is thrown into the ring by the Democratic Labor Party, an idea that I believe would be unworkable and unwise. I will oppose the suggestion that it be put to the Government. I trust that the majority of honourable senators will take that view. Surely the amendment is not of such importance that parties have to leave the Senate and wait until the normal meeting time to discuss whether they can vote on some rather extraordinary proposal, in my estimation, that the Government should introduce in the future - not in this legislation - in respect of air charges. 
I cannot agree with what my colleague,  Senator Devitt,  said about the Australian airlines, f believe that they started in a remarkably efficient manner and when joined by the old company, Australian National Airlines, a great improvement came about. That improvement in both airlines and their subsidiaries throughout Australia has continued. We are a lucky country in respect of our civil airlines and in respect of the services provided by those who fly, maintain and operate them. It is wrong and unfair for an honourable senator to say that the standard of service has deteriorated. When I was elected 17 years ago, I would leave Canberra airport at. 7 a.m. on a Friday and was lucky if 1 reached Hobart by 4.50 p.m. Now I leave at 7.50 a.m. Friday and I am at Hobart airport at 9.50 a.m. The services to the north west coast of Tasmania are equally as efficient. Last Friday fortnight I left Canberra at 7.50 a.m. and was at Wynyard airport at 9.50 a.m. There is a difference in size but very little difference in speed of. the Fokker Friendship and the Viscount aircraft. Just as T model Fords are out of fashion, so are Viscount aircraft out of fashion in Australia today. Their replacement aircraft is the faster Fokker Friendship. Surely nobody can say that our airline services are diminishing in efficiency because of the introduction of these new modern type short haul passenger-cargo aircraft, f do not believe it is fair to make that criticism. 
Before honourable senators criticise the Government for imposing increased charges and then criticise some airports in country centres, they should realise that to bring all airports in country areas up to the standard required to take the modern jet aircraft many millions of dollars will have to bc spent. Therefore all types of charges will have to be increased. So I believe the measure has the general support of the House. I believe the DLP amendment is such (hat any senator should be able to make up his mind either to support or oppose it, and I oppose it. 
 My question is addressed to the Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities. . Now that Melbourne has an international airport, has any consideration been given to encouraging the American authorities to bring American servicemen on rest and recreation leave to Melbourne rather than maintaining the flow into Sydney where the choice is between Sydney and Kings Cross, whereas if they were landed at Tullamarine they would be in close proximity to the lovely city of Melbourne and also would be able to visit South Australia and Tasmania? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Works. In view of the importance to the city of Hobart of the new Commonwealth Offices, both for the people who will work there and for those who will have dealings there, can the Minister give any information as to the size and type of building to be erected in the first part  of  the complex, how many will be employed there, what will be the total cost and any other useful information concerning the building? 
I  present the second report of the Publications Committee. Copies of the report have been distributed to honourable senators. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General find out and inform the Senate whether, if the leader of a Federal parliamentary party delivers his opening election speech on an evening when Parliament is sitting, the broadcast of that speech by the Australian Broadcasting Commission will interfere with the broadcasting of the proceedings of the Parliament? If not, does it mean that during the broadcast of that leader's speech listeners to both channels of the ABC will be a captive audience for politicians? 
Under most circumstances I would have been quite happy to go along with some of the principles we have heard laid down by  Senator kennelly.  Of course, he used a little sarcasm on my colleague,  Senator Young.  He said that  Senator Young  had not been in the Parliament a long time. As of this moment I happen to have been in the Senate longer than  Senator Kennelly.  I have not been the power within his Party or my own Party as he has been in his Party, both from within and outside the Party. I would have expected on this motton at this time that  Senator Kennelly  would have let the Leader of the Opposition in this place  (Senator Murphy)  indicate the attitude of the Opposition if it has had an opportunity to discuss its tactics in respect of this motion which I would have thought every  Senator, be  he young or old in Senate experience, would have anticipated. But  Senator Kennelly  chose to rise first and speak. He has announced his opposition to the motion. 
This is a peculiar state of affairs. We find that  Senator Kennelly  is criticising the Government because allegedly it is going to hurry through legislation and for not paying attention to important legislation which affects the primary industries of this country. Nobody from this side of the House has indicated that the Government is not prepared to sit next week if that is the decision of the Senate. 
But what has happened in another place? Important motions have initiated legislation. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  knew what legislation was proposed and the projected sittings of Parliament. But what has he done? He - not the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate - has decided to start the Senate election campaign tomorrow night. Where is the Leader of the Australian Labor Party in this Federal Parliament going to be when important legislation should be properly considered in the interests of the rural people who are in such trouble? Is the Leader of the Labor Patty setting an example- 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - I think the honourable senator should confine his remarks more to the motion under discussion. 
I certainly will. The Senate election campaign is being officially started tomorrow night when the Senate is in session. There is no requirement for the Senate election campaign to start then and cause people to be absent from their place in Parliament while the Senate is in session. The example has been set. The gun has been fired, as it were, for this election campaign, lt is getting close to hypocrisy for the Australian Labor Party to say to honourable senators on this side of the House that we are trying to stifle debate, to cut down on the sitting hours and times of this Parliament and to hurry through legislation. I believe, firstly, because we have not said we will not sit next week and, secondly, because the Leader of the Opposition in another place  (Mr Whitlam)  is starting the Senate election campaign tomorrow that we should support this motion, get on with the business and hope that we can finish properly and decently within the hours set out or return to work next week. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee D together with minutes of proceedings and the Hansard report of the evidence. I do not desire to be either repetitive or provocative. I have said in my report what I want to say. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
My question, which is supplementary to one I asked yesterday, is addressed to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Advertisements appear in Australian news papers today stating that a parliamentary Party leader will have his Senate election campaign policy speech broadcast over all Australian Broadcasting Commission stations tonight. Can the Minister give any information as to whether these advertisements are statements of fact? Would it not be a breach of the law regarding the broadcasting of the proceedings of the Parliament - the proceedings of the Senate should be broadcast tonight - if all ABC stations broadcast a Party political policy speech? Is it known whether the broadcast has been prerecorded? Or will  Mr Whitlam  be absent from his place as leader of the Australian Labor Party in the House of Representatives tonight? 
I present the Third Report of the Publications Committee. Copies of the report have been distributed to honourable senators. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Has the MinisterinCharge of Tourist Activities noted with glee from this morning's Press the great fillip which has been given to the Tasmanian tourist industry in that the Australian Labor Party has decided that the hotels in Launceston are of sufficiently high quality for it to reverse a decision and to hold its conference in Lauceston as scheduled and not transfer it, as was suggested by the Federal Secretary of the Party, to the Gold Coast where there is no price control? 
My question also is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In case somebody might get the impression that the new international terminal at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, which is said to be one of the best in the world, is the only airport in which Australians are interested, I wish to assure them that it is not. Can the Minister for Civil Aviation inform the Senate whether he will continue his inspections of the airports of Australia? Will he, as soon as possible, include visits to the airports of Tasmania, particularly the Hobart, Devonport and Wynyard airports, with a view to ascertaining early the requirements - not luxurious requirements but necessary requirements - of those airports to meet the comfort of tourists and other travellers to and from Tasmania? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. Has it been clearly and finally decided that this Parliament, when it permits the broadcasting of its proceedings, is not in contravention of an Act of the Parliament which prohibits the televising and broadcasting of political matter after midnight on the Wednesday preceding a Federal or State election to be held on a Saturday? If we are not in breach of this Act, does that not highlight the absurdity of the provisons in the Act to which I have referred? 
In rising to speak and to oppose the motion that we adjourn and sit 5 minutes earlier than usual next Tuesday so that we can discuss now a matter of urgency, I want to correct an error which I believe  Senator Mulvihill  made in his haste to get through his well prepared speech. The saving of $7Sm by the Commonwealth in the public sector will be made, according to my understanding, between now and 30th June next, -not between now and next August when a budget may or may not be introduced. 
I refer, as  Senator Gair  did, to the fact that because of the form of the motion before the Chair we have been forced into a debate on the economy of the nation in which back benchers are allowed only a quarter of an hour in which to make their contribution. It has been stated, in reply to that complaint, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  took only 10 minutes to speak to the House of Representatives on the economy. But let us be fair. The Prime Minister had previously addressed the nation on the economy on television and then, when the Parliament met, he made a statement on the action that the Cabinet had decided to take in the public sector of the economy to fight inflation. It Was never suggested that his statement to the Parliament on that evening would be a state of the nation message or a discourse on the nation's economy. It was simply a spelling out of the action; which Cabinet had decided to take and an estimation of the money which would be saved in the public sector between now and the end of the financial year: 
Either by a slip of the tongue or by being too impetuous  Senator Murphy  took the adjournment of the debate on the Prime Minister's statement by moving that the Senate take note of the paper. By doing so he automatically put the Prime Minister's statement on the notice paper under General Business where it now stands as No. 13 on the list. If he had not been so quick I am given to understand on good authority that the Minister would have moved that the paper be noted,  Senator Murphy  could have taken the adjournment of the debate and the statement then would have gone on the notice paper under Government Business and would have been called on. We then could have had a full debate with more time to prepare our remarks and more time to present them. So let no-one turn his criticism to the Prime Minister or to the Government in that regard. I do not approach this subject as an economist or as one who understands much about the intricacies of international finance. However I approach it with a feeling of absolute confidence. The question we are being asked today is: 'Do we attempt to stem the tide of inflation?' The Government has said: 'Yes, we will*. The Prime Minister has pointed out that the Government is taking action in this regard and that it is the responsibility of other elements in the Australian community - that includes the State governments - also to take action. The problem is what to do to stop or reduce inflation'. It has been accepted that in a developing country a little inflation is healthy but how to steady it is the problem. In his opening remarks the Prime Minister laid the blame, at least partly, on the action of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission in increasing wages by 6 per cent. I have moved about Tasmania and parts of the Commonwealth on committee work since that decision was handed down and from talking to business people, housewives and others who have been hurt by inflation I have got the idea that the people of Australia feel that the across the board increase of 6 per cent was the great spur to inflation. I pose this question: Would it not be fairer to grant a wage increase of $X a week rather than a percentage increase across the board? Surely wage increases are designed to help meet the increased cost of living and this could best have been done by granting to the blue collar worker, the white collar worker, the professional man and the academic a flat increase of $X a week. 
To that I give the direct answer, yes. One of the greatest problems facing this country is created by our system of wage fixation. If the LiberalCountry Party governments of the past 21 years have failed in any important regard I believe it has been in not getting the best brains in this country to work to introduce a new system of wage fixation. As I understand the situation our judges, legal men of high reputation, sit in judgment and hear legal advocacy for and against this and that. After the decisions are announced it is stated that wage tribunals will sit and it is anticipated that on a certain date they will agree to the flow-on for the wage groups that they administer, whether Federal or State. Then it is said that within the State and Commonwealth public services the appropriate wage fixing bodies have met and have come to a decision to support the wage or salary increase, which in this case is 6 per cent. Once the judges of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission have given their decision - not a suggestion or recommendation to the Government or the Parliament - that wages will rise as from a certain date, the increase flows on. I know of no power in Australia to stop that flow-on. 
If the ordinary wage earners who are governed by the Arbitration Commission receive increases, I see no reason why the salaries and wages of other workers should not also be examined. If we had the time to examine the present salary of a top Commonwealth or State public servant as compared with his salary 2 years ago we would discover one reason for inflation in this country. I believe a better wage fixing system is necessary, but my memory is not so short that I do not recall as a youth seeing the Bruce-Page Government swept out of office because it planned to abolish the Arbitration Court. 
It has been said today, and for the purpose of my speech I repeat it now, that in Australia too much is chasing too little. That is my view. Our work force is fully employed. I have checked today on employment figures. In the last 2 years, except in December, seldom have more than between 10,000 and 12,000 people been registered for employment This situation has caused private enterprise in this country, so rapidly developing and rich in resources, to pay over-award wages. When private enterprise pays over-award wages governments must try to match those payments in order to retain their employees. Otherwise they will be criticised on the ground that they are making their public servants slaves while in private enterprise higher wages could be earned. 
AH honourable senators have had letters from associations of professional engineers and salaried and professional officers throughout the Commonwealth. Great pressure has been applied for wage and salary increases because there is a shortage of specialists in the work force today for all forms of specialised employment. I am glad to see that the Prime Minister has placed restraint on overtime in the Public Service. It has been said that Australia has a 2 pay packet economy. I believe something has to be done to try to alter that as an accepted fact of life. I think it is wrong for the health and betterment of the country and I will be saying more on that point in connection with another subject in which I am vitally interested. It is wrong that 2 pay packets should be needed in every house for our people to achieve a decent standard of living. It is a problem that governments and private enterprise must face. We parliamentarians should direct our thoughts towards finding a cure, instead of merely being critical of that situation. 
The Commonwealth Government is to save $75m. It has not ruled that the States are to receive and to spend less. It has set an example and already several State Premiers have said that they are joining in this part of the crusade. I hope that private enterprise also will play its part. We are an affluent nation but there are too many poor people amongst us. In our affluence we have become an extravagant nation. I will give 2 examples of what I term extravagance which have partly contributed to inflation. Back benchers like myself sometimes must travel in airways buses. I will guarantee that one never sees more than 10 or 15 people travelling in those buses, at 50c a ticket. But on the aircraft one finds more than 100 passengers, which means that about eighty of them have travelled to the airport by private cars or taxis. 
I remind honourable senators that when one stands on a street corner to catch public transport in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Hobart - the only cities I have visited recently - at peak periods when people are travelling to work the buses are half full while about 200 cars pass, each containing one or two people. This is extravagance and has partly contributed towards inflation in this country. There is waste in Parliament House. These are little things, but I believe we must start with little things in this crusade to cut out waste and to cut down expenses, particularly in the government sector. Government spending is never productive, other than in making laws and restrictions and collecting taxation. Public servants in authority must see that as much waste as possible is eliminated. The time should be gone of spending to match the estimates.  Senator Gair  as a State Premier is familiar with the situation in which a department has asked for $X thousand and finds at the end of May that it has spent $2,000 less than its estimate. It immediately gets busy finding ways to spend that sum of $2,000 before 30th June because it fears that its appropriation will be cut next year and its empire will not be so wealthy. There is a shocking waste of money in May and June of each year in State and Federal government departments. No-one can properly deny that that is true of government instrumentalities. I do not want to attack any particular body but I ask one question about the Reserve Bank of Australia: How many thousands of dollars is it spending on buildings that are completely unproductive? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
-I pre  sent the Fourth Report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
I present the fifth report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
On behalf, of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory I bring up the 
Committee^ report on proposals for variation of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory as gazetted in 1925. This is the 47th series of variations. 1 ask for leave to make a short statement on the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! ls leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
The report which I have tabled is the first of its kind though the matter with which it deals is one to which my Committee has given consideration on a number of previous occasions. As honourable senators will be aware, the resolution on the appointment of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory requites it to examine and report on ali proposals for modifications or variations of the plan of the layout of the city of Canberra and its environs published in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette on 19th November 1925, as previously modified or varied, which are referred to the Committee by the Minister for the Interior. For a variety of reasons the Committee has not reported to the Parliament before but considers it proper to do so in the case of the current proposals known as the 47th series of variations and on all future occasions. 
The proposals for variations are fully explained to the Committee in private session by officers of the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior, and following examination of those officers and inspection where necessary of the sites of the proposed variations, the Committee satisfies itself on the desirability and practicability of the variations before recommending their adoption. These matters are not considered lightly nor are members of the Committee easily satisfied as to the worth of proposals. Much evidence is taken and the National Capital Development Commission and the Department of the Interior go to considerable trouble to satisfy the penetrating examination of the proposals made by the members of my Committee. In short, this is not a rubber stamp procedure. The Senate is assured that where proposed variations are recommended they have been well considered. 
There is a requirement for the proposed variations to lie on the table in both the Senate and the House of Representatives for a period of 6 sitting days. This procedure follows consideration by members of my Committee. There is therefore, and there always has been, the opportunity for honourable senators to satisfy themselves on the merits of the proposals. The tabling of this report does not affect in any way the procedure referred to, and the proposals will lie on the table in the customary fashion at some point after . this report has been tabled. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
What about Thursday mornings? 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  It refers to the marking of the attendance of senators in the Senate, which figures are used later for statistical purposes and are sometimes quoted for or against the senators involved. Is any action taken to mark as present for the sittings of the Senate those members of Senate committees which the Senate, for special and important reasons, authorises to meet while the Senate is in session? If no such action is taken, should not consideration be given to having the record so marked in view of the fact that the senators are in the precincts, are available to speak and vote if required and are in fact fulfilling their parliamentary duties as required by the Senate? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the fact that neither Qantas Airways Ltd nor Air New Zealand is agreeable to inaugurating any type of direct air service between New Zealand and Tasmania, will the Minister consider offering Ansett Airways Ltd and/or TransAustralia Airlines the right to arrange charier flights as and when required between these areas of rich and wonderful tourist potential? 
In rising to support the legislation now before the Senate,  1  will follow the example of the 2 previous speakers -  Senator Fitzgerald  and  Senator Gair  - and not speak for long. 1.  do not believe that in this legislation we desire or need a full debate on all aspects of social services and repatriation benefits. I was interested to hear  Senator Gair  suggest or imply that when the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission gave an across the board increase of 6  per cent to wage earners in Australia the Government should have given some thought to increasing the pension benefits. 
When we had a debate on this matter earlier in this session I touched on the across the board increase of  6  per cent granted by the Commission and said that in my opinion the Commission was taking control of the economy of Australia.  1  suggest that, if we maintain this system of salary and wage fixing by the Commission and say to it: 'You do what you want to do and pensions will rise accordingly', we will leave the Government with very little room for movement in providing for all the other responsibilities which all honourable senators know come under the jurisdiction of the Federal Government. I do not believe that any court should be in control of the economy of this country. It is surely the right of the Parliament to exercise that control and it is the will of the people that the Parliament should control the national economy. 

 Senator Gair also suggested complete retrospectivity of pension increases, as I understand him, at least to the date of the last national wage increase granted by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. On second thoughts  Senator Gair  might appreciate the fantastic amount of work involved in determining the people to whom the retrospective payments would be made. Difficulties would arise because of alteration of the situation of claimants in relation to the means test, the death of partners in married pensioner couples and of single pensioners, and new claims made under certain conditions during the period. Such changes would necessitate a very detailed examination of pension cards and records of well over I  million Australians. The cost in lime and labour would be heavy and many weeks, if not months, would elapse before the Department could state accurately the just legal payments due under the law made retrospective by 2 or  3  months. I do not believe that it is fair or wise to ask that retrospectivity be granted for pension payments. 
I understand that we are dealing with the  3  related Bills together. This interim action to increase pensions has been taken by the Government because the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and Cabinet agreed that the national finances are sufficiently healthy and sound to make these payments to the end of the current financial year and until the new Budget comes into operation. We are urged to keep politics out of pensions. Naturally, anybody who has said anything in or out of this Parliament that has been critical of the Government's last 50c pension increase will claim a share of the kudos for the action now taken by the Government. I remind the Senate that when I addressed myself to the last social services legislation I stated unequivocally that when I heard in the Budget speech that the pension rise was to be only 50c I felt keen disappointment. 
I always will have to remind myself and the Senate whenever we talk of a pension increase in this affluent country that we are giving benefits to  1  person in every  13  in the community and that is true of the legislation we are debating today. That ratio gives some idea of the large group receiving social service benefits amongst our population of about  13  million people. 
One has only to look at the records to find the numbers of people who served the nation in war in the armed Services and in peacetime and are now receiving benefits. How many of our people in need, in 99 per cent of cases through no fault of their own, because of ill health and misfortune, are calling upon the national purse to provide them with a livelihood? 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I said that I did not propose to go through the whole range of social service and repatriation benefits and discuss the need for them. However, I do want to point out to the critics of the Government - and a government will always have critics - that a government must govern in all spheres and it must be responsible for all its decisions, particularly decisions in regard to its fiscal policy. Those who sit in Opposition have every right to be critical of the Government, and I have come to expect continuing criticism of all aspects of the Government's policy, but 1 believe that sometimes - I might be accused of being biased in saying this - criticism is unfounded. If the record could be properly researched I think it would be found that whenever payments from Commonwealth revenue are being discussed the critics of the Government will say that the payments are not enough and that the recipients of these payments need and deserve more, but whenever legislation imposing any form of taxation or charge on the purses of the people is being discussed the same critics will say that the Government is stifling initiative, hindering production and being unfair to the low wage earner. 
At this time in our history the friends of the Australian Labor Party and those people whom they appoint to the Australian Council of Trade Unions are wielding mighty power over this land: I would point out to them that their influence could be and should be for the good of the country. I believe that everyone would benefit if they were able to exert influence on the employers and the employees to consider the benefit to the country of their actions. The point I want to make is that Commonwealth revenue would grow without the need to impose further charges and taxation on the people if every person in 
Australia did a full year's work, granted all the holidays. If there were no strikes Commonwealth revenue would be greater because the greater the production in Australia the more we would bc able to export overseas. It is not only Government policy that has an effect on what revenue the country has to disburse to those in need. In the era through which we are passing 1 believe that there is a duty - I think the country is calling for it - for the Australian Labor Party and those people who are in charge of trade unions to try and bring peace to the industrial world so that more work will be done, more production will take place and more money will be able to be paid out of Consolidated Revenue to those in need. 
J wish to refer now to the legislation in respect to repatriation benefits. Under it the main pensions are to be increased by $1 a week and the Service pension by 50c a week. I would, in: &amp;.! very kindly way, draw the attention of the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  who represents the Minister for' Repatriation in this chamber, to a phrase which I think should be struck out of his second reading speech. He referred to the clients of the Repatriation Department receiving increases. I think the Senate will agree with me when I say that the people to whom he was referring are not clients of. the Repatriation Department but people who, because of war caused disabilities, are getting some monetary repayment. It was put much better later in his second reading speech when the Minister reminded us- probably in his own chosen words- that .the Bill now before the Senate provides for higher war compensation payments, by way of increases in the rates of war pension. 1 wished merely to make, the point that the recipients of repatriation benefits are not clients of the Repatriation .Department. 
I turn briefly to the' amendment which has been proposed by  Senator Fitzgerald  to the motion that the Social Services Bill be now read a second time.' I understand that  Senator Fitzgerald's  amendment has- been partially endorsed by the "Australian Democratic Labor Party. The amendment is only an expression of goodwill or wishes in respect to the Social Services Bill; it does not propose to hold up the enactment of this legislation. Of course, it does not involve putting politics into pensions or pensions into politics; it is just that the opportunity has been taken to spell out some of the emerging policies in respect to social services. I shall deal briefly with them.  Senator Fitzgerald  reminded us that the first 4 paragraphs of his amendment are mere repetition. We have become used to these matters being raised in debates on this type of legislation and they have again been raised in the legislation we arc now discussing. The amendment commences by saying that the Senate is of the opinion that the increases proposed are inadequate. 1 believe that that is a very clumsy way of offering criticism. If the Australian Labor Party has been doing its homework and it really wants to be helpful, I believe that it should at this stage - after 21 years in Opposition - be able to say what it regards as being adequate. The word 'inadequate' is inadequate because it means nothing. Therefore, 1 do not believe that the Senate would bc right in adopting such a meaningless phrase as an addendum to the motion that the Social Services Bill be now read a second rime. 
The amendment goes on to state that social service payments generally are inadequate to maintain an acceptable standard of living. Here we have another airy-fairy expression. 1 ask the Labor Party straight out to state whether it disagrees with me when I say that the present social service benefits - remembering those who come within the scope of benefits because of the merged means test and remembering what are known as fringe benefits but what I would call extra benefits - are sufficiently generous to enable many of our pensioners to live a comfortable way of life. I know that there are pockets of poverty in Australia which should not exist in this affluent land. Both  Senator Gair  and I have talked in times past of this aspect. My keen disappointment is that the Government and its advisers have not seen fit to bring forward some plan to deal with the pockets of poverty. However, as long as 1 am a member of the Senate I will not bc supporting the abolition of the means test until this Parliament has ensured that those people who, through no fault of their own, have lo be and are regarded as being in pockets of poverty are properly looked after. ( am man of Ihe world enough to know that in Australia, as in any other country, there are people who, through misfortune and through their own fault, will suffer a state of near poverty, whatever their income is. We know that some sharebrokers are in this situation at present. 1 think the second paragraph of the amendment is meaningless. I have put to the Government a proposition - I shall not repeat it tonight but I hope the Government will consider it - which I believe would provide a way in which the branches of the Department of Social Services in each State could be armed with the authority and provided with the money to enable them to alleviate the distressing pockets of poverty that are dotted about this country. 
In the third part of the amendment the Opposition suggests that steps should be taken immediately to eliminate poverty. In my view the people referred to as suffering under this standard of living would come under the second part of the amendment. I cannot oppose or strongly criticise the suggestion made in the third part of the amendment, but I believe that the Opposition should be able to advance some constructive suggestions of ways in which we could attack these pockets of poverty in order to relieve the situation, lt is of no use to suggest that we can eliminate poverty by spending extra dollars each week across Ihe board in social service benefits. 
The fourth part of the amendment states that a national superannuation system should be established and the means test eliminated. That is easy to say. I am aware that in earlier years those who were representing politics on this side of the House made promises along these lines, and 1 believe that this is a goal for which we should strive, but I believe that there is too much urgent work to be done among the really needy of this land before we eliminate the' means test. I come next to the fifth part of the amendment which suggests that pension payments should be a proportion of average weekly earnings adjusted annually. This is a difficult provision for me to comprehend fully. Whose average weekly earnings arc referred to here? Is this the average weekly salary, allowances and wages taken right across the board of the people in Australia, or is it the basic rate of wage as fixed by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? What is the average and who determines the average weekly earnings? 
Then the Opposition would want the figure to be adjusted according to average wages and not salaries? 
 Tha t is average wages. This brings me back not to the point of no return but to what 1 said in the early part of my remarks and to what it is that the Opposition really wants. The Democratic Labor Party has an amendment lo paragraph 5 of the Opposition's amendment, but I believe that what the Democratic Labor Party proposes is really an amplification of paragraph 5 and sets out in greater detail what is aimed at by the Opposition. So far as I can see. the Opposition wants wages and pensions to be related so that when wages rise pensions will rise. I have no wish to see wages fall, but if this proposal were accepted a fall in wages would mean a fall in pensions. I te/ve it at that. It appears to be the current policy and desire of the Opposition that pensions should be so based that they will rise in proportion to rises in the average weekly earnings of the people of Australia. 
I do not believe that it is reasonable for good and responsible government. It is being suggested that wages and pensions - the Commonwealth pays wages and pensions - shall have the first draw on the common pool. The Opposition does not spell out the order after that in which the other responsibilities of central government shall come. I refer to matters such as education, health, the States, the arts and a hundred and one other responsibilities, and finally the defence of this country. I believe that I am being fair when I say that the Opposition is suggesting that as a matter of policy the first draw on the Commonwealth pool should be for wages as decided by the Arbitration Commission and that the second draw, or co-equal draw with the first from the common pool, should be for pensions which have been adjusted to the average earnings of the Australian people, which amount would be fixed by the Arbitration Commission. I believe that this would be putting our economy in the charge of people outside this Parliament. I do not believe that would be a wise policy to adopt. 1 can suggest no way of ensuring that a fair proportion of the Commonwealth's revenue is devoted to social service and other benefits than for pensions to bc fixed other than by the responsible government which has to raise the money bringing forward to the Parliament the proposals embodying what it believes it should and can do and then allowing the Parliament, which is composed of people who face the public at election time, to make the decisions. I believe that any member of the national Parliament who really thought deeply about this subject and kept politics out of pensions would say that there is no doubt that we do not want a tribunal of outsiders telling us what this nation shall give as pensions, that the Parliament which is elected by the people lo govern should make the decision and should rise or fall by its triumphs or mistakes. That is why f support this legislation. I believe it is wanted by the people and will be appreciated by them. As we come towards the end of our twentysecond year in power we know that we are in office because the people are aware that from us they get responsible government in all spheres of our activity. 
1 present the Sixth Report from the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
As Chairman I present the report of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory on Sunday observance in the Australian Capital Territory. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- 1 move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The unanimous acceptance by the people of the Australian Capital Territory and by the Government of the report on the Sunday observance inquiry, which T have tabled, is unlikely. This is because philosophical issues on which we all make value judgments, are at the centre of the question my Committee has had to consider. The report makes recommendations about the use of leisure time by people in the ACT, including its many visitors, on Sundays and because these recommendations broaden the legal scope of possible activities, some groups may have misgivings about our report. Nonetheless, I say to the Senate, the Government and the people that I believe the report's recommendations truly reflect the weight of evidence which had relation to the Committee's terms of reference. More than this, the recommendations, if implemented, will ensure the creation of an atmosphere in Canberra in which there should be a wholesome enjoyment of leisure and the opportunity for the satisfaction of the needs of a wide spread of age groups, creeds and cultures. I point out that our inquiry was widely publicised, and it was held in public. Witnesses were keenly sought, and those desiring to be heard were heard and their evidence was tested. Finally, all the evidence, together with much relevant legislation and much research material on the question of Sunday observance in the 1970s, was examined and carefully weighed in the balance. 
If the report is accepted in toto, I believe there will be written into the statutes of the Australian Capital Territory a set of rules for the observance of Sunday which, as time passes, will result in the achievement of the goal at which the Committee aimed. I believe that we have truly reflected what was in the minds and hearts of the public spirited people, from many spheres of activity, who proferred evidence to us. Attitudes, desires and rights of people change. The Committee became aware, early in the inquiry, of the desire of some sections of the community for change. It was equally obvious that all sections realised a change was not only understandable but also inevitable. Parliaments, governments and bureaucracies do not have to grant requested claims but surely they do right to grant them; or, as in our case, recommend them when they agree with the case put to them for those changes. 
During the inquiry, there was mention for and against a 'continental' Sunday. We could obtain no acceptable definition of this widely used term, which has been bandied about for many years. My research brought to light an interesting quote from the 'Hobart Mercury' of Saturday. 13th October 1928, under the heading 'The Mainland Day by Day - Melbourne'. It refers to a number of church bodies, whose names I will omit as I wish to ridicule or offend no one. The article pointed out that the church bodies deplore our drift towards a 'continental' Sunday. It went on to state: 

 Mr Hinkler's  arrival on a Sunday, the establishment of a Sunday train service between Melbourne and Sydney and Melbourne and Adelaide, and  Mr Clapp's  Sunday trains between Melbourne and the provincial centres . . . were adduced as evidence of 'disquieting signs of a moral drift which imperils the State'. Unless something is done these things will end in a 'continental' Sunday. This shibboleth of the 'continental' Sunday had its roots in the early and mid-Victorian idea that a Frenchman was naturally immoral, the chief evidence of which was that he and his family made merry on cream puffs and well watered wine on their one weekly holiday. 
Our aim has been to achieve the principle that the law and its administration should recognise the rights and responsibilities of persons and organisations to pursue, in a satisfying variety of ways, activities consistent with the observation of the day as one of spiritual, social and physical recreation and the enjoyment of leisure. We uphold the principle of the importance of church and family life, but we have also listened to the pleas on behalf of that heavy percentage of young people who are hostel or flat dwellers and we have recognised that the continually increasing large number of visitors flocking to our national capital must be given due consideration. 
Yes, liquor will be more readily available, but I would point out that it is not the ready availability of alcohol or the proliferation of points of sale which causes the abuse of alcohol, and there has never been a law prohibiting its consumption on Sunday. The present law places members of i. censed clubs and their friends in a strictly favoured position and leads others to break the law in pursuing activities regarded by present day values as unobjectionable. Some of our recommendations are aimed at bringing an end to this favouritism and to legislate for all sections of the community. Other recommendations seek to provide legally more scope for both participatory and spectator sport and allow for the sale on Sundays of the type of goods that families and visitors require. 
Lifting some restrictions may lead to increased Sunday employment; a matter to which my Committee gave close attention. In seeking a fair deal for all concerned in this matter and realising that various awards govern the rights of those who do work for wages in respect to overtime and hours of employment, the Committee has found it wise to include it its recommendations one which reads: 
That legislation be enacted to provide against compulsory employment of any person in the capacity of an employee on a Sunday and, further, providing that refusal to work on Sunday should not prejudice employment. 
T pay my personal tribute to all those who had any part in the inquiry culminating in this report and I am particularly grateful to my colleagues who have enabled me to produce a unanimous report. I stand by each of the recommendations we have made in the belief that, if put into law, they will help to provide, without amendment for many years, the means by which those who are in the ACT on Sundays may lead useful, happy, and if they desire, leisurely lives amongst their families and their friends. 
I present the report of Estimates Committee D on the additional Estimates for the year 1970-71. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I present the 7th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report, by leave, adopted. 

 - Mr President, I rise because I feel it is my bounden duty. I raise a matter of privilege which is based on articles appearing in the Sunday Australian' and the 'Sunday Review' of 2nd May 1971. I produce a copy of each paper. The 'Sunday Australian' is printed and published in New South Wales by Mirror Newspapers Ltd for the proprietors, Nationwide New Pty Ltd of Canberra. The Sunday Review' is printed by D. L. Manuel, of 91 Church Road, Doncaster, for Barndan a Pty Ltd, for the publishers-distributors Ipec Ltd, of 822 Lorimer Street, Fishermen's Bend, Victoria. I submit that the publication of these articles, which deal with the report and recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia, constitutes a prima facie case of breach of privilege. 
The articles deal at some length with what they state are some of the Committee's findings and recommendations. In the case of the 'Sunday Review', it is stated on the front page: 
The Senate select committee on drugs will publish its report this week. This is the first Australian parliamentary investigation of such matters as the legalisation of marijuana, television advertising for cigarettes, and supermarket sale of salicylates. For an exclusive sneak preview see page 845. 
As the Senate knows, the Committee's report has not yet been presented to the Senate and it is my understanding that the premature publication of a committee's report is a breach of privilege. I move therefore: 
That the article on page 1 of the 'Sunday Australian' of 2nd Ma; 1971, and the article on page 845 of the "Sunday Review' of 2nd May 1971, dealing with the proposed report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Austrafia, be referred to the Committee of Privileges for investigation and report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
As the reports of the estimates committees are under discussion I wish to speak briefly on behalf of Estimates Committee D of which I am  Chairman.  The members of the Committee did not want the request I am about to make to be included in the report in case it was mis understood. They asked me to raise it at the appropriate time in the Senate. The request relates to the Hansard report of the committees. We are spoilt these days and greatly aided by the fact that the Hansard report of today's Senate proceedings is available to us tomorrow. We all know that Parliament has not provided the Hansard staff with the facilities, in any shape or form, to provide the same service to the newly constituted Estimates committees. The result is that 5 days or more elapse before the report is available. When we have 2 committees meeting at a time and honourable senators are busy on other work and on other committees, they do not know what has actually taken place the day before or a couple of days before because no Hansard report is available. This is no form of criticism of anyone. It is just a request that, if we are to continue with the Estimates committees, the powers that be in this Parliament and the Government give some attention to providing the Hansard staff with all the necessary facilities to enable it to give us a daily Hansard, if possible the day after the meeting of the committees. 
I present the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, together with a supplement in the form of a bibliography and a transcript of the evidence taken by the Committee. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr Deputy President, 1 seek leave to make a statement and to propose a motion in connection with the report. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
 Mr President,  the report just presented to the Seriate should, if the aims and desires of the Committee are fulfilled, be a valuable social document for the serious consideration and subsequent action of- governments and the people of Australia. Since it was set up on 25th November 1969 the Committee has worked assiduously on a task it realised was of great magnitude and social importance. We held 64 meetings and heard 213 witnesses. As a result of their submissions and our questioning, the transcript of evidence amounts to over 6,400 pages. We sought and received many up to date and valued research documents and, through the co-operation of the Parliamentary Library, we will make available to research scholars and other interested people, as a supplement to our report, a comprehensive bibliography of 456 references. 
We commenced our task with little real knowledge of drugs or the problems they pose; but we approached our inquiry with open minds concerning the answers that were required to the broad terms of reference. As a result of the evidence received we have set out our conclusions and have made 26 specific recommendations. I believe these recommendations, and the reasons given throughout the report for making them, should be carefully studied as a matter of urgency by those in authority. It is true that 2 members of the Committee found it necessary to make reservations on 3 of our recommendations but I would .stress that all of the remainder of the report has the unanimous support of the Committee. 
I believe our report is comprehensive and that our conclusions and recommendations are a true assessment of the evidence and knowledge placed before the Committee. Not only do I stand firmly in favour of them all; I believe also that they are reasonable and can be put into operation with good and lasting effect. I am convinced, consequent on numerous conversations with many people during the last 15 months and from the evidence and much reading that I have done on the subject - one which has never been out of my thoughts since I was honoured to be appointed  Chairman  - that many people have been awakened to the problem. Perhaps what is more important is that many of those dependent on drugs, their families and friends have been helped to realise that relief. or recovery from this illness is possible and is very rewarding. 
The very fact that this Committee was established has, I believe, already proved of benefit to the community. Due to the excellent publicity given to the proceedings of our inquiry we were I believe acting as a catalyst in making the people and Governments more aware of the problem of drug abuse in Australia and making available valuable information on what could immediately be done to start the long hard drive to stem the rising tide of abuse of drugs among all age groups of our society. Many sectors of the community were at least partly informed of actions they could take to help people suffering or on the threshold of the illness of drug dependency and perhaps they could save others from becoming drug dependent. 
To many up till, now, mention of the drug problem conjured up thoughts of heroin, LSD, cannabis and the other illicit drugs. Without trying to diminish the serious situation these drugs pose in our society, it became very evident early in the inquiry that currently in Australia the major drug problem, so far as the health and welfare of the mass of the people are concerned, revolves round the abuse of the socially acceptable and legal drugs - alco hol and tobacco and the therapeutic substances - which in the majority of cases are either legally prescribed or purchased through legal sales outlets. This factor has led the Committee to be explicit in its recommendations both for the short and long term action it advises for dealing with this widespread and serious problem. 
The Report is neither an attacking nor condemning document. It seeks to assess the present position in Australia in respect to all forms of drug abuse. It sets out our belief of the causes and effects of this abuse and makes recommendations for the treatment of those suffering from drug dependency. Importantly it stresses that the long term solution lies in education. Our Report suggests a revolutionary recasting of the present approach to education in schools and if those concerned are strong enough and big enough to accept it I believe Australia will become a far happier place, not only in terms of defeating drug abuse but in the contribution education can make to what I call 'living in the community'. And equally important we must by education, through the minds of our people, give them the reasons and the motivation not to provide a sales market for those drugs which break through our barriers. 
We recommend the strongest measures against those parasites in our community who commit, in my mind, the heinous offence of trafficking in drugs. AH the relevant evidence clearly indicates, that just as this rich and developing, affluent country is the new frontier for tourism, so is it the possible new lucrative area for the narcotic drug traffickers to attack. Therefore our own preventive measures must be expanded. We as a nation must accept the challenge that the traffickers will offer to us. A serious ill effect of drug dependency, particularly where the illicit drugs are concerned, is the turning to crime by the victims who are forced to procure the rottenly high price charged on the black market to provide themselves with the drugs, which they feel they cannot do without. In these circumstances crime and drugs become partners. 
Statistical information concerning all aspects of drug use and abuse in Australia is extremely weak and unreliable. Your Committee believes this factor to be an important missing link in the chain of knowledge required to deal with drug abuse. Stress is made in the Report on the neccessity for joint Commonwealth and State action to ensure the availability in the future of all relevant statistical knowledge, so that the growth or, more hopefully, the decrease in drug abuse may be known with greater precision to all those concerned in dealing with the problem. 
Our report does not minimise the misuse of drugs currently  in  Australia and it acknowledges the great dangers besetting this country if we do not forthwith take remedial action.. We do remommend a plan for treatment, and  in  both the short and longterm we set out what we believe are realistic ideas for a combined and continuing drive aimed at decreasing the causes and limiting as far as is possible in respect to illicit drugs, the sources of supply. In regard to the legally and socially acceptable drugs, and the admittedly greatly needed and beneficial therapeutic substances, we advocate the means of decreasing promotion of their sales and earnestly hope the unwise prescribing, which is apparently doing great harm  in  the community, will be eliminated as far as is practicable. 
Of all our conclusions and recommendations we believe that those referring to education and we make admittedly far reaching pleas in this regard, are the foundations on which must be built the entire Australian structure to save this country from being engulfed in the rising tide of drug availability, which we know has swept, and is sweeping, through other countries. It is my firm belief the Senate has timed its action on the drug phenomenon just in time, if the national spirit is willing to save this and future generations from the ravages of drug misuse 
I want here to record the Committee's appreciation of the voluntary action of some 100 young people who came to talk with us but not necessarily to give evidence. Some were users of drugs, in various stages of or approaching dependency, while others were experimenters. We learned some of the basic causes which led them to turn to drugs. These included alcoholic and drug taking parents, broken homes, the problems and stresses of the society into which they have grown and, their own personality defects for which society - our system of living - has not provided the necessary help and motivation for them to overcome. Add to these the deficiencies of our school education system; they all play some part in causing the drug habit. 
I pay a sincere tribute of thanks to my Committee colleagues, our staff and advisers. They have been worked hard; they have responded generously with dedication. Careful reading . of the report will indicate a theme or thread running through its fabric enlisting from all who take any part in the cause of careful and prescribed drug use, and the prevention of drug abuse, an attitude of help and compassion for those suffering the illness of drug dependency but a firm and unremitting fight against the careless prescriber, the trafficker and the infecters. What could be a grim picture faces us, but Australia is forewarned. With great sincerity, I believe our report provides helpful and practical answers to some of the problems posed. My colleagues and I have done our best. I hope Australia will . judge our effort as being worthwhile and worthy of the Senate from which our report has emanated. 
I move: That the Senate take note of the report. 
I present the 8th report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of an article appearing in the 
Canberra 'Courier' newspaper concerning the Canberra Airport terminal building and the somewhat primitive facilities for the collection of passengers' luggage, particularly in winter months, can the Minister state whether any plans are ready for improvements to these facilities in view of the fact that the terminal building has been greatly modified and improved in recent years? 
I direct my question to you,  Mr President.  In the knowledge of your pending retirement from the Senate and in the desire to take advantage of your great knowledge and wise counsel, I ask: In view of the fact that committees of the Senate are undertaking inquiries of great interest and public importance to the Australian Government and to the people of Australia, and as from time to time the reports of these committees are completed during parliamentary recesses, would you give consideration to suggesting an alteration of the rules of procedure to enable the reports to be presented to the  President,  thereupon, with his authority, to be made available to the Government and the news media and then automatically to appear as an item of business on the Senate notice paper on the first day the Senate meets after the presentation of reports to the President? 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate supplementary to that asked by  Senator Milliner  asking that an announcement be made of the time when Australian troops will be withdrawn from Vietnam. Can we get an assurance in the name of safety for our servicemen in Vietnam that no information shall be published as to the time and date of withdrawal of our troops? To do this would surely be giving valuable information to the enemy. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIt is axiomatic that the Government  will  not make any announcement until the appropriate time. The question asked by  Senator Marriott  points up the very reason for this but under certain circumstances announcements have been made as to a future withdrawal. I agree with  Senator Marriott  that these should not be spelt out with the sort of precision which would be of any advantage to our enemies. 
I wish to ask a question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate, supplementary to the question asked by my colleague  Senator Devitt.  Does the honourable gentleman in all seriousness believe that it would be a good idea for approaches to be made to the news media of Australia suggesting that when they accept payment for advertisements which mention the names of public figures at least the names of the people inserting the advertisements should also be contained in those advertisements so that the public of Australia will know whether they are humorists or people trying to damage the reputations of public men? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the well known and unfortunate instances of visitors to mainland China, even those whose views were known to be favourable to the country, being held incommunicado for long periods without any justifiable reason being made known, can any action be taken by the Federal Government, through any diplomatic channels, to ensure the safe return to Australia of the Leader of the Australian Labour Party,  Mr Whitlam,  and his party at the end of their proposed visit to China? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of 11 electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth - 
that a United Nations General Assembly Resolution declared that the Geneva Protocol of 1925. which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effect on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray - 
that the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Senators urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr President, undeterred by the Minister's recent statement to  Senator Mulvihill  I ask the Minister for Health the following question: Is the Minister aware that a coroner,  Mr Pascoe,  was reported in the Melbourne Age' of 4th August as criticising the system by which people obtained sleeping tablets and other tranquillisers and saying: 
The number of tranquillisers and sleep inducing drugs prescribed to some patients is perhaps one of the greatest factors in the increase of suicide in the State. Many doctors preferred to prescribe drugs in smaller quantities, but were forced to prescribe in lots of 23 so that their patients can get them on the free list. This left the person who had a tendency towards suicide with a means to carry out this urge. Perhaps it would be better if these drugs were taken off the free list. 
Those are the words of the coroner. Will the Minister indicate whether the position is as stated by the coroner and if so what action is proposed to be taken? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONA cutting. I feel bound to say, on this matter was sent to me. I deliberately set about to get answers from my Department. The statement in the context it was published appears to be inaccurate. Information supplied to me by the Department says that it would appear that the coroner's reported reference to the prescription of certain tablets in lots of 25 relates to the higher strength sleeping tablets for which 25 is the maximum quantity that can be prescribed as a pharmaceutical benefit. There are also lesser strengths of sleeping tablets available as pharmaceutical benefits as well as the tranquillisers which the coroner is also reported to have mentioned. The maximum quantity of these which can be prescribed at the one time as a benefit is higher than 25. Contrary to the statements by the coroner the maximum quantity of any item need not be prescribed in order that the drug may be provided as a benefit. That is completely contrary to the judgment made by the official in the coroner's court. The explanatory notes in the schedule of benefits which is circulated to all medical practitioners 3 times yearly state: 
The quantity of the prescription by a medical practitioner should be that which he believes is necessary for the proper treatment of his pal len provided the maximum quantity is not exceeded. Repeats may be in quantity up to the maximum. 
I feel bound to say in fairness to the coroner that the report may be abridged; it may have created a wrong impression. But to the extent to which the article appeared in the Press it appeared that he had a wrong understanding of the situation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Health. What officers, if any, of his Department will attend the International Symposium on Drug Dependence sponsored by the International Council on Alcohol and Addictions to be held in Hong Kong from 18th to 22nd October? Will he reconsider the request received for Commonwealth financial assistance to enable a specialist representative of the Alcoholism Foundation of Australia to attend this important symposium? Will he endeavour to ensure that Australia is adequately represented at these meetings so that this country can continue to be kept informed on all aspects of the problems of increased drug taking and treatment of those suffering from the illness of drug dependency? 
I straight out oppose the amendment along the lines put forward by  Senator Byrne.  I believe that the longer notice an honourable senator has that an urgency motion is to come before the Senate the better it is for the Parliament, the nation and every honourable senator. I rise to be consistent because my criticism in the past, particular of members of the present Opposition, has been that' they have not, in my belief, been fair enough to enable good debate on matters of urgency because they have not informed the Government on some occasions until after lunch on the day on which the motion is to be debated. Therefore we have not had the time to inform ourselves on the subject. We are not all experts on all subjects. I believe that the better informed we are the more useful are the debates. If during a recess or at any time a group of honourable senators feel that on a given day they want to debate an urgency motion and they tell the  President  and the public the better it is for all concerned. But if we were unwise enough to accept this amendment and place a limit of 24 hours on the presentation of the motion we would see an inglorious rush of honourable senators lining up outside the. President's office to be first with notice of an urgency motion. The  President  has the right to choose which is the matter of greatest urgency but I believe that in 9 cases out of 10 tradition would say that it is the first cab off the rank. I believe that this practice would be unhealthy and harmful. I suggest that there be an amendment which would provide that the statement of a matter of urgency be handed to the President's office not less than 6 hours before the time fixed for the meeting of the Senate. In other words if the Senate is meeting at 3 o'clock in the afternoon 6 hours before that time is zero hour to give notice of an urgency motion. I would agree with that proposition but I oppose the amendment as it is stated in this suggested draft. 
I present the ninth report of the Publications Committee. 
Report - by leave - adopted. 
Can the Minister for Works inform the Senate of what progress is being made on
              the construction of Commonwealth Offices in Hobart? Does the contract lay great stress
              on the use of Tasmanian made materials in the building and is work up to time? 
My question is addressed to the Minister 'representing the 
Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has any thought been given to the possible embarrassment and/or harm that could come to our overseas diplomatic staffs and their families from anti-Australian demonstrations that could understandably be organised as a reaction to the larrikin type protests and demonstrations occurring from time to time in Australia outside and in the grounds of foreign diplomatic staffs who are honouring this country by their presence in our land? Does the Minister believe that some appeal should be made, particularly to members of the Australian Labour Party, both in and outside Parliament, not to encourage such demonstrations in this country either by precept or example? 
After being 18 years in the Senate I do not think one would choose Thursday afternoon in the third week of the session to speak on the Budget. There is not a lot of togetherness at this time of the afternoon. We do not have the added temptation of the microphone which lets  us  believe that we have a vast, widely spread audience hanging on to every word, but I do know that our words are seeping "through into some rooms in this building and that rapt attention is being paid to them. I want to begin by emphasising that I speak holding the status in which I have addressed the Senate for over 184 years. So any comments that I make are those of the author - myself. They are my beliefs and my opinions. 
Having heard the calm and reasoned speech of  Senator Drury,  even I would not wish to be provocative this afternoon. All I can say about his speech is that I hope that the departments to which he referred will read, mark, learn and inwardly digest what he said. If they find that there is reason to alter regulations or attitudes, let them do it for a fair deal for the people. I believe that one of the reasons, if not the only real reason, why we prepare our speeches and are upstanding here is because we know that the speeches are read by officers of the Public Service who decide whether any action will be taken and, if action is to be taken, what action can be taken on any worthwhile suggestions that might flow from the members of the Parliament. During the course of this debate and during the course of debates on matters discussed prior to the Budget we have had the privilege of hearing maiden speeches. The Senate has been enriched by the new men and new lady who have joined us as a result of the last elections. This is of benefit to all of us because the higher the quality of the debates in the Senate the better it is for us all. It is also of benefit to the public because it is imperative that as this Senate really develops itself and becomes something of note in the parliamentary life of this country the calibre and ability of its senators should be maintained and, if possible, increased. 
I say this to remind us that on 30th June last we lost some record breakers from this Senate - some men and women whose names will live forever in the annals of the parliamentary history of this nation. Sometimes we are so easily led to welcome the new and forget to pay tribute to those who have played their part in an outstanding manner. I know it is dangerous to mention names because one might omit someone who is worthy of mention. I hope I will not. I refer, first of all, to our former  President, Senator Sir Alister  McMullin, and the 2 lady senators,  Senator Dame  Annabelle Rankin and  Senator Dame  Ivy Wedgwood, both of whom broke records in many ways during their membership of this Parliament. I mention also  Senator Bull, Senator Toohey  and  Senator Kennelly  - a name well known throughout every nook and cranny of political life in Australia. What a remarkable man  Senator Kennelly  has been. He was a dour fighter but a man who loved life and loved parliamentary life and who, in my opinion, adorned it. I mention also  Senator Hendrickson,  big  Senator Malcolm  Scott, my very close friend  Senator George  Branson,  Senator Dittmer, Senator Toohey  and  Senator Ridley.  All of these people played their part. I pay tribute to them at the same time as I welcome the new senators who have joined us. In particular I welcome my Tasmanian colleague, the Independent senator,  Senator Townley.  Having been secretary to his father perhaps led me on the paths of righteousness into the Senate. 
I shall conclude my reference to individuals by following the example of others and saying very sincerely how pleased I am that  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack is our new  President.  He will carry on in a fitting manner the work of a man who adorned the position of  President  for a record period. I welcome  Senator Prowse  also. The Country Party always seems to be able to provide us with amiable and capable men to fill the position of  Chairman  of Committees, and it has done it again. 
I now turn to the Budget. This is the fiscal policy of the Government around which this debate sometimes winds. First of all, I refer to defence. I do so only briefly so that it is in the record because all honourable senators know that after weighing the situation and all its responsibilities this Government has increased the amount of money to be spent on defence by $117m. It is noteworthy, though - no complaint will come from either side of the chamber - that it appears that at long last servicemen will be better paid for their services as professionals in our defence forces. Of this extra $117m allocated for defence, some $66m will go in extra pay and allowances to our servicemen. I will not go into details on defence but I wish to express my real sorrow that we in this Parliament - in both Houses - cannot have more togetherness with respect to our approach to the 2 great fundamental areas of defence and foreign relations. 
I will not be provocative; I hope I will be fair. But I say from my heart that I have a fear that a tragedy, a collision, more deaths, more wounded, a crashed aircraft, a delayed defence order brings joy to some people who are opposed to the politics of this Government, when in reality for the good of this country and for the people who serve in our defence forces they should share with us the sincere regret that something has happened that has harmed a person, equipment, the stature, the morale or any other aspect of the defence forces of this country. I believe that we should seek to attain greater nationalism and that more effort should be put into achieving a united front. Some of the criticism levelled against the Government has been fair but a lot of it has been destructive. This destructive criticism has been relayed to North Vietnam and other countries and has lifted the morale of those who are our enemies. I believe that we as members of Parliament have a responsibility not to do anything to lower the morale of and destroy the heart and soul of our defence forces. 
That leads me on to Australia's foreign affairs policy. Foreign affairs and defence are matters which are interrelated. I am sorry that the expression 'foreign affairs' is used to describe our international relations. I think that the word 'foreign' is as bad as the word 'alien'. The use of the word foreign' in relation to external affairs or the affairs of other countries is rather harsh. I suppose it is used because we are following the pattern in older countries. The fact of the matter is we do have statutory provision for a joint committee of all parties in both Houses of the Parliament on foreign affairs but that since about 1956 the main body of opposition in this Parliament - in other words, the alternative government - has decided on and off for reasons of its own that it has made public and some of which are perhaps understandable that it will not serve on this committee. In other words, we have in this national sphere of great importance a completely divided Parliament on this subject because an important sector of the Parliament has said that it will not have anything: to do with discussing this subject or with trying to formulate policy on it. I believe that they are 2 of the faults handicapping our country at this particular time. I would point out that those are my views and my views only. 
I wish to refer to another aspect of criticism which gets a lot of publicity. Anybody in Australia who wants to hit the headlines today or be interviewed on television has only to mention in a critical vein the Pine Gap or North West Cape establishments or the possibility of the establishment of an Omega station in Australia. I believe that we should be very happy about and pleased and comforted by the fact that there have been erected and are in operation in this land of ours certain fundamental, modern, wondrous electronic equipment that could be of fantastic importance to us if and when an international war in which we were embroiled' again broke out. I want to say that I donot go along with the criticism that if war broke out and we had a nuclear power station, an Omega station or Pine Gap we would immediately become the target of nuclear weapons. First of all, I do not believe that there will be a nuclear war, but I do believe that we should be prepared for one. A nuclear war would be more likely to occur if we were not prepared for it. But I want to point cut that if there were a nuclear war and we were involved in it, the presence of the Pine Gap or North West Cape establishments, an Omega station or a nuclear power station would not make us the target of nuclear weapons any more than would Sydney, Newcastle, Whyalla and all the other places of industrial richness and wealth in this country. 
We would not be bombed in order to stop any defence works connected with our allies, the Americans. We would be bombed and attacked because an aggressor wanted to take us over. An aggressor could not help itself in the taking over of us by closing down the Pine Gap establishment or obliterating an Omega station, but it could take us over if the hearts and minds of the people were crushed as a result of the dropping of atomic bombs over Sydney, "Brisbane, Hobart, Adelaide, Perth and Melbourne. They would be the targets. I Relieve it is being disloyal to this country to declaim the actions of this Government and the offerings of our allies in respect to these defence works. I believe that they are part and parcel of our defence requirement. 
I turn now to another subject which is of vital importance to Australia, particularly to we people in the Senate, which is a States' House. This item comes second in the items referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget Speech. I refer to the Commonwealth-States financial arrangements. The Treasurer said that he believes - any of us who has read the newspapers and who knows the Premiers will agree that it is a factual statement - that Commonwealth-State relations have improved in recent times. They have improved not only because there has been better communication between the Commonwealth and the States in recent times but also because there has been a handing over - a returning, if you like - of millions of dollars more of the taxpayers' money to the States for their expenditure. The Treasurer estimated that the States will receive S3, 280m this financial year, which represents an increase of S437m or 15 per cent on the comparable figure for last year. The amount the States will receive from the central purse has made them happy. We in this chamber, being the representatives of the States in this Parliament, must take some pleasure in this increase. 
It is good to know that the Commonwealth has given special consideration to the position of the local government authorities. The financing of local government is a problem that I believe the Commonwealth Parliament will have to tackle by way of a parliamentary committee. I do not think that governments can themselves tackle this sort of question. I think it has to be tackled by a formal committee comprised of either parliamentarians or experts from outside of the Parliament. Some action has to be initiated in the Commonwealth sphere to put local government finances on a better basis. Local government really affects the lives, conditions and facilities of every mortal in Australia, but there are not many fund raising avenues available to it.  We  bring out migrants and we encourage trade and industry, but  we  forget that the facilities for these migrants and industries have to be provided by local government. I know that my colleague, the Minister for Works  (Senator Wright),  did a great job in getting the Commonwealth really interested in the tourist industry and in enticing more Australians to travel and more people to come to Australia as tourists, but tourism is not a great source of revenue to local government. If Australia is to develop its tourist resources properly a lot of money will have to be spent by local government on our beach and seaside resorts, picnic areas, river locations and the other things that come within its care. The State governments say that this matter does not come within their province. I believe that we will have to look at how to finance local government so that it can provide the facilities that tourists and the people of Australia require. 
I move on to the subject of social welfare, which is the third item in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer. It is probably the most talked about item. Legislation will be introduced to put into effect the Government's proposals. I believe that in  its  approach to age, invalid, widows and Service pensions child endowment, payments to those who are institutionalised, repatriation and the other aspects of social welfare in general the Government is working to a satisfactory plan. It is not by any means an over generous one. 
I repeat my view so that it is again in the record: Before people cry out for the abolition of the means test they must make sure that legislative action is taken to provide adequate finance to help clear out the pockets of poverty that exist, and will always exist. There always will be pockets of people in areas throughout Australia who will be in need of help and sustenance from the Commonwealth. However much we pay them and however much is available to them through the normal channels, these pockets of poverty will crop up. We have to ensure, if it is humanly possible that these people, particularly the children, are  helped,  nurtured and guided. They  live  only one life on this earth and it is up to us  in  this rich country to do all we can to see that their lives are made livable and happy. We will not have the money for  this under our present financial setup if we  ease the means test  or abolish it and make  every person  eligible  for social service benefits. There is a problem even in easing the means test, and I am all in favour of doing that gradually. It should be eased. But the great financial problem facing the Commonwealth in this regard - there has been criticism  of  this aspect in the Budget - is the cut off time for fringe benefits. 
There were discussions and arguments about the budget last year and it was freely acknowledged by honourable senators on both sides of the chamber that the value of the fringe benefits offered under our social services programme averaged $5 per week per pensioner. That is a terrific cost over and above the payment of pensions. If we extended all the fringe benefits as we eased the means test, and everybody was getting the fringe benefits, we could not possibly provide the necessary finance. 
Because there would not be enough money to go around, if the honourable senator stopped to think about it. I will not get into an argument with  Senator Georges.  He tried to ask me a question yesterday but was not allowed to,  and  he is out of  order  now. The honourable senator should read Hansard tomorrow, think about what I have said and then come back next week and give me the reply. 
I want to refer to 2 other items in this Budget. They are important. The first matter  is  education. We as a nation are not backward. Each year the Commonwealth greatly increases the money it provides for education. Recently I visited a new university, one being constructed gradually but which is in occupation. It has a wonderful campus with wonderful buildings. Many millions  of  dollars provided by the Australian taxpayers are being spent there. But I found that these new buildings were defaced by the painting of slogans and insults. One wonders whether this is the result of education or whether  it  reflects a lack of ability to understand and take in education on the part of those for whom we are providing. Many of the students receive practically all their education as a result of Commonwealth scholarships provided by the taxpayers. It makes me wonder how long we can go on listening to people crying out for the Government to spend more money on this and that, toincrease salaries to the academic staff and to continue to provide sabbatical leave - the 6 months leave they get every now and again. The facilities for these people are: costly to the taxpayer. I would much rather see primary schools, high schools, and other schools developed and improved before there is an addition to such luxury and extravagance. 
I turn finally, so far as the Budget is. concerned, to the question of external aid. From time to time there is, I think, unfounded criticism of Australia's efforts, in this regard, but this year we are increasing the amount of our external aid by $9m. Somebody will work out that this is. a certain percentage of our gross national product and that some other country does, a little better. My reply usually to that statement is that you can do practically anything you like with figures. Before people criticise what we give away they should remember that responsibility, like charity, begins at home. While we have poverty and while we have under-fed and poorly housed people let us think what we can do for them before continually criticising - and not always doing it sincerely - our efforts in respect to overseas aid. 
I emphasise this point so that I am not misunderstood and misreported. I am not critical of one penny that we spend on external aid. Just as a wealthy family should help its relatives, friends or even strangers who are not so well off, so should an opulent country help provide money and goods to other countries. But this help must not be out of balance with the responsibility we have to our own people. 
The Senate will know that for 18 months, ending on 6th May this year, I was privileged to be  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. The Committee brought down its report on 6th May. I have every proof  -  1 am proud of this - that this report has received international acclaim. It has been keenly sought and widely read by people in many disciplines and professions in Australia. It is pleasing to me and to every member of the Committee - there were 8 senators on the Committee - that, from time to time, people in professions and in government, State and Commonwealth, make certain suggestions about what should be done in regard to medicine and drugs, lt is amazing how often what is now being said and published fits in completely with our report. This pleases us. It shows that we made an impact on the people. It indicates, so far as we can judge, that perhaps we reported well. 
Firstly, but not  most  importantly, we said that as a basis statistics must be kept in Australia. We found that hardly anybody knew anything factual about the type, number and variety of people afflicted by dependency on any of the drugs. To start with, we must have proper figures so that we can assess the true position and the magnitude of the problem. Hopefully, as the years roll on and as the numbers decrease, we can judge whether we are progressing and whether our policies are working. A lot of publicity has been given in the news media to the problem of dependency and the harm done by analgesics. To put certain things on the Hansard record I propose to read from the Committee's recommendations. We said: 
Bromureides should only be available on medical prescription. 
In other words they should not be purchased from pharmacies without a prescription. Talking of the safety of these tablets we recommended: 
Wrapping. It should be compulsory for barbiturate, bromureide and minor analgesic - 
Those are the tablets which one can buy from the pharmacy or the milk bar - tablets to be individually wrapped. 
That is recommended as a possible saving of instant action in attempted or successful suicides. It is reasoned that if one has to take  10  or  20  tablets to cause one's death, one can take a handful, swallow them and death will come. But if one has to open a bottle and unwrap  10  or  25  tablets before one can take them it is possible that sanity will return or a friend will come and life will be saved. I believe that this is a serious matter. This is a sensible suggestion and, what is more, it was inserted in the recommendations because of the evidence of the medical profession. It was not our idea. It came from the evidence which was produced to us. Questions have been asked 
18M7/71- 5- 126) 
in the Senate this week regarding the labelling of medicines. Our recommendation reads: 
Labelling. All drug containers should carry factual and adequate information of recommended dosage, the effects of over dose, warnings of harmful side effects and of the dangers of use in conjunction with other drugs such as alcohol. 
The sooner that recommendation is put into action the better off many people in Australia will be- An amount of medicine is taken harmfully and unknowingly because of lack of labelling and lack of caution. Because people have taken tablets which have been prescribed and which they have not been warned not to take after drinking alcohol, the harm done and the accidents caused is quite alarming. The sooner that recommendation is taken account of the better. Now I shall refer to advertising. Questions are being asked and insinuations are being made regarding television advertising of cigarettes. The Committee made this recommendation: 
The granting of tax concessions for all drug advertising should be discontinued. 
That brief sentence gives an idea which is workable. It would pay the Government to adopt that suggestion and it would cut down the amount of advertising taking place on television, radio and in the news media. There is no doubt that if that recommendation were to be put into force it would have  2  effects: It would cut down the over-advertising and the pressure advertising to a great extent. Adopting that suggestion would be more effective than cutting out advertising in one area. It would also increase the revenue of this Government which, in turn, would give it more money - according to other recommendations we make - to provide adequate treatment centres in Australia which do not exist at the present time. Since we made the recommendation that the granting of tax concessions for all drug advertising should be discontinued, from the comments that I have read and from all the questions that I have been asked by the various news media I have not seen a reference to nor have I been asked one question about this recommendation. Honourable senators might ask why the Government has not acted on the recommendation. I have thought about the matter and, without making inquiries, my reply is that as the report of the Committee was not brought down until 6th May it would not have been processed by the Department - I say this very sincerely - in time for the Commonwealth Treasury or the Treasurer to consider the matter for inclusion in the Budget. But I emphasise this matter during the Budget session this year. The recommendation is in our report and I believe that because it could be so effective it is being silenced outside this Parliament. It is not being given any publicity or discussion. The second recommendation we made regarding advertising was: 
Drag advertising directed to the medical profession should be required to include complete, balanced and accurate technical assessments, advice of unfavourable side effects and details of potential for abuse. 
In relation to television we said: 
The Commonwealth Department of Health should impose greater restriction on the content of TV and radio drug advertising. If existing legislation is inadequate for this purpose it should be amended.  1 express a personal view because I believe it is my duty to do so. We made these recommendations as a Committee. In relation to this section a reservation was expressed by  Senator Georges.  He can refer to that himself. The other recommendations 1 have read were unanimous. Our recommendations were based on our interpretation of the evidence.I am concerned about the cry that we should abolish any type of advertising by making it illegal in one medium. Let us consider television. At the moment; it is the in thing to say. 'Abolish or make illegal the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco on television.' 
No. But it is the in thing to say that outside this place. Other countries have done that. My reading on the subject is that . it has not been successful. The money has flowed into other media such as the glossy magazines. As one who for the past3 months has given away cigarettes and tobacco- 
Yes, for 3 months. I think it was the result of being Chairman of the Committee. As one who knows what it is to give away cigarettes and as one who watches television I believe we would be hypocrites if we stopped the advertising of cigarettes but allowed 'Four Corners', 'Monday Conference', people on beaches, on picnics, in plays and in musicals to smoke. It would be hypocrisy. I would be prepared to think that I would support the banning of such advertising if we were to ban the use of tobacco in front of any television camera. That would be impossible. It is absurd to say that more teenagers are smoking cigarettes today because of television. In Australia television is not very old. Let us be honest. At that age we all try smoking. Some of us tried and did not like it. I was one who tried smoking at 16 and I did not give it up until I was 58 but there was no television in my time. I believe it is hypocritical to say that we can cut down the smoking of cigarettes by prohibiting advertising on one medium. It is my view that if we are to start making it illegal to advertise a type of goods or services on television we will gradually reach the situation where there will be no freedom. 
-I am no wowser but if the honourable senator is going to prohibit the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco he would be hypocritical and insincere. I believe that if we are thinking of the good of the people we should not continue to permit the other most dangerous drug in use in Australia today- alcohol - to be advertised. I put those thoughts as one who has spent 18 months on the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. I enjoyed every moment of that service. I believe that the report of that Committee is worthwhile and that notice should be taken of it. I have had letters, from the 2 Ministers concerned - the Minister for Customs and Excise and the Minister for Health - stating that the Committee's report has been received and is being considered fully. I am given to understand that some move is likely in relation to it. 
I shall deal now with committees of the Senate. In my view we still have to give thought to this subject. I can claim some experience in this sphere: I think I am the only senator who has conducted 2 public inquiries at the same time. I have worked out that our duties in the Senate and on the current committees are such that no back bench senator can be on less than 2 standing committees and/ or select committees, plus twice a year on one Estimates committee or in some instances two, plus one or two domestic committees of the Senate plus Party committees. The 2 major Parties have a number of policy committees. I suppose that most of us, because we are in public life, are committed to community projects and committees in our home towns. From experience 1 have calculated that from now on senators will be. employed in the Senate for at least 20 to 24 weeks a year. A senator who commits himself to one or more of the major Senate committees will be interstate or in Canberra for another 20 weeks a year. That makes 40 or 44 weeks a year for which we will be away from our home towns. In addition there are some weeks in which because of holidays mid-week we would not be called away to Parliament or to committee meetings. In a nutshell, if we are not careful and if we fully work all the. committees to which we are committed - senators do their best to attend all meetings of committees - most senators will be absent from their home States for 44 to 48 weeks a year. This will present 2 problems. They will be mainly political Party problems. I believe that senators will have to have no other occupation or responsibility - no earning capacity outside Parliament. 
I am in that position, but I have never thought that it is right. A good sprinkling of such members is good. I do not think it should be mandatory that a senator should not be employed in any money making concern. We do not want senators who have their noses to the grindstone of business. We want senators who will be able to participate in the functions of the Senate. We do not want all senators to be like myself - a senator only. The Party organisations will have problems. How will they be able to contact us? They say that it is important, that we attend our Party functions and branch meetings and so keep the Party going and keep the Party growing. AH Parties need to grow. We are gradually working ourselves into the situation in which we will be professional .politicians only and in which the Party organisation will not see us unless we attend on Christmas Day. 
If we continue with these committees, if we do our work zealously and if Parliament continues to sit a little longer than it has in previous years, the physical work load of this continuous work will be more than we can cope with. This will give rise to the need for staff for members of Parliament. All the older senators have been on committees. They know that senators are occupied not only in the hours spent in hearing evidence but that many hours are spent late at night, in aircraft or. wherever they are, reading the submissions of evidence that will be heard during the week. Committee work prevents senators from preparing their work for the Senate or for the electorate. 
I have given this matter a lot of thought. Senators are responsible for their own programming. If all the committees were set up and if all the items to be referred were referred to the committees, there would be reached a stage of overemployment of senators in committees of the Senate. This may mean that we would have to decide to make the committee work that of the Senate only. We may have to withdraw from the joint committees. We may have to let the other place have its committees and we have our committees. I am  chairman  of a joint committee. It is very hard to hold meetings of that committee. Houses do not sit on the same day. Members of the other place have their commitments. The busier we gel the harder joint committees will find it to exist. 1 leave with senators those thoughts on committees. I believe they are worthwhile. I believe they need examination. We have only ourselves to blame if we overwork ourselves or if we give ourselves responsibilities which we will noi be able to fulfil. 
I will not spend any time on the amendment to the Budget. I oppose the amendment. I hope the Budget will be successful. I believe it was well timed and well constructed and that it will be able to take the ups and downs of the economic and social life of Australia in the 12 months that it is meant to cover. 
 In rising to take part in this debate I must say that I wonder what goes on in the minds of members of the official Opposition, the Australian Labor Party, if more than one member of the Opposition have anything whatsoever to do with putting forward the Opposition's side of the business of the Senate. As is known, the Opposition has full authority to use Wednesdays in sitting weeks for the raising of matters of urgency if it so desires. This is provided for in the Standing Orders. This is the pressure valve that the Parliament provides to allow the Opposition to air matters of urgency and to bring them before the Government in public. As is known, the Senate proceedings are broadcast on Wednesdays. 
It is courteous and traditional - and decent thinking people act courteously and traditionally - to let other members of the Parliament know what matter of urgency is to be raised unless, of course, the matter happens to come to notice only during the lunch hour. But, as our learned Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  pointed out the Government was informed at the latest possible time today, 12.30 p.m., that this matter of urgency would be debated following question time this afternoon. The nature of the subject raised as a matter of urgency must have been known yesterday to the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  because, in his speech attacking the learned Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy  quoted the AttorneyGeneral's reply to a question asked yesterday without notice. He tried to build his case, in his attack on the Government, on this question without notice yesterday which dealt with this particular subject. 
I remind the Senate that our time has been taken up today, for some 3 hours, on a matter which was introduced in true Labor Party style. The matter of urgency raised by the Opposition was in these terms: 
The Government's neglect in failing to introduce legislation to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 
This was the urgent matter thought out and decided upon for debate in order that the Opposition could delay debate on a Bill which is of importance to the whole economy of Australia, namely, the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill. I must remind the Senate that the Leader of the Opposition was heard in absolute silence. This appeared to embarrass him. Provocative as he was, he drew no fire, no interjections, which are disorderly. 
No. He aroused a little opposition from members of his own Party and ordered one of his own team back to the dressing room. As  1  said, the Leader of the Opposition was heard in silence except for that one interjection. His speech was made up of ceaseless repetition. 
He had hoped to live off the interjections of honourable senators on the Government side. After he resumed his seat, he considered what he had said. The Attorney-General replied and when  Senator Byrne  was half way through his speech the Leader of the Opposition rose and obtained leave of the Senate to alter the wording of the matter of urgency. Incidentally. I do not cast any reflection on anyone but  1  did not understand the forms of the Senate which permitted him to do that. So the matter of urgency we are now debating has been whittled down. Second thoughts have been brought to bear and the matter of urgency now is: 
The Government's delay in introducing legislation, to regulate and supervise accident insurance. 
The wording of that motion is quite sensible for a debate in this chamber, but whether the subject matter of the motion is of sufficient urgency to delay a discussion on the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill 1971 must remain a matter of opinion. However, there is no arguing against the claim that the subject of this motion is a matter of Commonwealth Government responsibility. 
I understand that the first Commonwealth legislation regarding this type of insurance was introduced in 1932 and that it was amended in, I think, 1966. The fact is that that legislation has stood the test of time. But the growth in the population of Australia and the expansion of the industry has brought to light the fact that there may not be safeguards in the legislation to protect those people who support certain types of insurance companies. This matter has been raised in both Houses of the Parliament. I believe it is only fair to say that the Government has not only agreed that action should be taken to improve the legislation but also promised to take action. 
The actual date is not known. That has been freely admitted by the Government. But there are 2 reasons why the actual date is not known, although those reasons would not come to the minds of members of the Australian Labor Party because not one of them has ever been in government. They do not know what it is like to be in government. They have no responsibility. They have no idea what goes on. 
I would remind  Senator Wheeldon  that I am a member of a government which has been in power since 1949. We are now in our adulthood in office. As I was saying, if the Opposition had some tinge of experience in government it would know that the framing of legislation in respect to a subject such as insurance is a mammoth task. I feel confident that  Senator James  McClelland, a learned legal member of the Opposition, will agree with me when I say that it is a mammoth task to prepare legislation that suits modern times in this particular phase of the insurance industry. 
Another factor about which the Opposition should be aware because it has been mentioned many times in the Senate is the difficulty of all governments, Commonwealth and State, in drawing into their service adequate efficient drafting staffs for their legislative counselling departments. This is almost impossible. Unfortunately, therefore, there is a delay in the preparation of much important legislation and supplementary legislation. As a former  Chairman  of the Joint Select Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, I know how long it takes to draft an ordinance in respect to the Australian Capital Territory. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! 
Lots of interjections have been made,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  1 do not know why the Opposition has adopted such an attitude to the speech I am making on the matter of urgency it has raised. I would remind members of the Opposition that the Leader of the Opposition, in putting forward this motion on behalf of - it would appear - a divided Opposition, attacked the AttorneyGeneral. Apparently the Leader of the Opposition did not realise that the legislation which is the subject of this debate comes under the administration of the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  If he had known that,  Senator Murphy  probably would have addressed the question he asked yesterday to the Minister representing the Treasurer, who is responsible in this chamber for the administration of the legislation or lack of it that is under attack today. 
I believe that the main thing - 1 may be slightly in error here because I had the misfortune to miss the first 3 minutes of the Leader of the Opposition's speech - that is worrying the Opposition in respect of insurance is workers' compensation and motor vehicle insurance. No-one dealing with either of those 2 aspects of the insurance industry would treat them with any levity. Everyone hopes that the industry will have adequate legislation as soon as possible to cover the proper running and conduct of insurance companies because we all know of the rapid increase there has been in the number of serious and fatal accidents on our roads and of the terrific loss of human life and the terrific cost of the repair or replacement of damaged vehicles caused by road accidents. It is not very pleasing to realise how great this problem will be in Australia if past trends continue. 
Ten years ago there were 2,000,000-odd motor vehicles on Australian roads. There are now 4,861,000. Official figures show that the increase has been 2,037,000. If the development of Australia continues as widely and as rapidly as it has in the last 10 years and the general opulence of the community continues, as I believe it will, we are going to experience added problems in respect to motor vehicle insurance. Both sides of the Parliament and all elements in the community should give serious thought to not being destructively critical and petty party political about this matter but to looking at it from a national outlook. We should consider the matter from 2 angles. First of all we should make the vehicles and the roads safer and generate commonsense and sobriety in the drivers and users of motor vehicles. In this way we could cut down on the chance of accidents occurring. If more consideration were given to the safety features in the design of motor cars and roads as well as to the health, knowledge and sobriety of drivers we would be going a long way towards taking the burden off the insurance companies because the fewer accidents there are the less lighter will be the burden on the insurance companies  and,  for that matter, the holders of insurance policies. I believe that we should all do our utmost to support anything that will improve those features of our national life. 
I do not deny that there is room .n the statutes for improved legislation in this respect, but I do not believe that the Opposition really meant this matter to be treated as a matter of urgency. I think the Opposition thought it would catch supporters of the Government unawares and unprepared to come into the debate. The fact that the Opposition did not let the Government know until just about the commencement of lunch time today that it was going to raise this subject means either that it was trying to break away from tradition and the normal practice of letting the Parliament know what it is going to debate or that the members of the Opposition could not reach a decision among themselves and they pulled this matter out of the hat at the last minute. If it had really been a matter of urgency, they could have given us notice this morning of their intention to raise this matter. The Opposition has sometimes done that in past years. But lack of unity and thought as to what is to happen today in the ranks of the Labor Party is one of the matters that adds to the burden  of  honourable senators on this side of the chamber. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has  expired. 
-I rise to ask the Senate to give very serious consideration to the proposal put forward by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  regarding the referring of further references to Senate standing committees. I speak as one who has studied this matter closely and as one who was  Chairman  of 2 committees over a period of18 months.I do not wish on any member of the Senate the job of chairing 2 public inquiries or of working hard on 2 committees of inquiry at the same time as that honourable senator is taking part in the debates and procedings of this chamber and also representing and spending some time in his State, particularly during a year in which he is facing a Senate election. It should be remembered that, as the Parliament is constituted at present, we are in the throes of a Federal election or a threatened Federal election nearly every year. In considering this question honourable senators should have in mind how much time is available forcommittee work  -  I refer not just to the hours of meeting of committees; how much time is available in the Senate - and we come here for at least 26 weeks in a year to attend sittings of the Senate; and how much time there is for the electorate and for elections. 
Let us consider the situation as it works out for a person who is chairman of  a  committee trying to arrange meetings.  I  must say that honourable senators have cooperated to the greatest degree. The months of December and January are out so far as meetings of the committee are concerned. Then there is February, March. April and May during which the committee might meet but the Parliament is sitting during that period. Then there is a break in June and July. Most honourable senators would honourably, sensibly and fairly say: 'We want to be relieved of committee work in either June or July." Then we come to the Budget session. 

 Senator Murphy said thai some of these references could be submitted to 2 committees so that, the staff could do preliminary work. I suggest that a close examination of the references and work before the legislative and genera! purpose standing committee* reveals that it is such that no new references could be started by them until 1973. There is perhaps one committee of the 7 committees which would finish the work now referred to it in time to start another reference before 1973. 
The number of times on which a committee can meet is very limited. Let us take Government senators, for example. Al least 3 Government backbenchers have lo be on 2 of the standing committees. If we want committees to be well attended we have to be careful that 2 committees do not meet at the same time if one senator is a member of both. The official Opposition - the Australian Labor Party - is in a little better position, lt has sufficient backbench senators to man the 7 general purpose committees, with the help of the Democratic Labour Party and the independent senators. But it is fair to say that when the Parliament is in session a standing committee can meet once a week at the most, particularly when you lake into consideration other committees of the Parliament and of the Senate. the scarcity of committee rooms and the fact thai the have to be handled and serviced by staff and by Hansard. Therefore in a sessional period of 3 weeks the most that a standing committee can meet is for 3 days. Members of committees like to have the week off in between the 3-week sitting periods so that they can work in their electorates. Therefore while the Parliament is sitting it will take standing committees with big references such as those we have put already to the committees a long time to complete their work. 
There is only one other reference I desire to make to  Senator Murphy's  statement. He suggested that the committee staffs can get on wilh considering the framework, the research and the early submissions to the forward references. I suggest, for 2 reasons, that this would be placing a very great difficulty on the committee staffs, lt is my sincere opinion that once a reference is before a committee and the inquiry starts the staff is completely occupied full time. Staffs' provided for committees are not large and I believe they are engaged full time on the references before them. .It. is very hard to foretell when a report of a committee is finally to bc placed before the Parliament. Therefore it is difficult to judge when to call for submissions. I appreciate the point made by  Senator Murphy  that it lakes time and that it is beneficial in a way to give people as much time as possible to prepare their submissions to Senate committees. But it will not be beneficial if committee staffs call, for submissions in June and you then find that because of parliamentary business and because of elections and other factors unknown at the time the hearing of the reference cannot start until the following calendar year. I suggest (hat the research work done and the submissions prepared could be wasted. 
I believe that we should not give more work to the committees because we would not be making progress; we would be overloading them. Also I suggest that between now and then other matters may arise that the Senate, in its wisdom, feels should be put to a standing committee. Perhaps I was ignorant or naive but 1 thought that the original purpose was lo have committees to which we could refer matters of importance for quick examination by a committee of the Senate so that it could report back to the Senate and so that the Senate could then consider the matters not in detail but in principle. That idea seems to have gone by the board. The Senate, in its wisdom or otherwise, has referred to the committees subjects that could almost be said to be interminable. At least they are subjects which, in my estimation, will take over a year. Therefore I say we should agree not to give any more references at this stage to the standing committees of the Senate. 
 Earlier in this debate the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  suggested that it was not wise to pass motions willy nilly referring matters to committees. I support that view completely. I have had a little experience of chairing committees and I believe that you,  Mr President,  with your great experience in these matters, would agree that a motion of the Senate referring a matter to a committee becomes the reference for that committee. The wording of the motion passed by the Senate is the reference to the committee and no power on earth, other than the Senate, can alter it. If it. had been agreed to refer to the committee, which I understand contains only lawyers, the motion moved by  Senator Byrne,  an eminent legal member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party- 
The motion is the reference to the Committee. The motion is in these terms: 
That there be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs the following matter - The Report of the Commonwealth Administrative Review Committee, dated August 1971. 
What, may I ask, is this committee of the Senate asked to do about the report? Nothing whatever. The Senate is just saying: 'We are referring the report'. It is obvious that a little thought in this matter would give the mover of the motion and any seconder time to think and to add some instruction to the committee on what it should do about the report. Does the committee report back to the Senate on any portion of it? What does the committee do? At present it would be just a waste of time because we would be putting a piece of paper in front of the committee and not telling the committee to do anything about it. This debate is useful even if it only gets the motion into sensible and understandable language. 
 Mr Deputy President- 
Opposition Senators - Hear, hear! 
No doubt the cries of 'Hear, hear' and the greetings I am getting on rising to speak on the motion for the adjournment of the Senate flow from the fact that it must be widely known that I am commencing my twentieth year of service in the Senate and that this is only about the third or fourth time 
I have spoken in an adjournment debate. I am one of those who believe in fair hours of labour. I think that from 8.45 a.m. to 
I I p.m. is a sufficient day's work when one does it 4 days a week. However, I rise with the concurrence of my Leader, the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson).  Yesterday  Senator McLaren  posed a question to the Minister for Health regarding the news media drug seminar that was held in Canberra on 26th and 27th February. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Prowse)  - Order! The point of order is not upheld. 
-In the course of the reply by my Leader he said, when referring to me as the Assistant Minister who had opened the seminar, that I had de-fused certain things that had happened at the seminar. Today, I understand,  Senator McLaren  sought a clarification of the term 'de-fused ceram things that had happened' and my Leader gave an assurance to the Senate that either he or I would make a statement on the matter in the Senate today. I shall be as brief as possible, despite all the help that I am getting from honourable senators opposite who are sometimes critical because in their view 1 do not speak enough. I do not have the same thoughts about them. However, 1 should like to explain to the Senate that 1 had the honour of opening this seminar which was held primarily as a result of recommendation No. II of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse of which I had the honour to be  Chairman.  That Committee recommended that opportunities should be taken for negotiations with the Newspaper Council of Australia to see whether there could be more responsible reporting. The Department of Health took up this recommendation but it was found that the Newspaper Council could not speak for all the various news media in Australia and, after negotiations, at the suggestion of the news media the seminar was arranged. Some 78 people representing the media, health and medical authorities and drug educationists assembled in Canberra. At the seminar 7 papers, which had been prepared by distinguished people, all leaders in their own spheres of activity in Australia, were read. Certain news media people present came to the seminar feeling that the term 'responsible reporting' was an attack on the news media. 
Some papers dealt primarily with the drug situation and education. As at ali seminars there was a short period for questions and discussion but not sufficient time was available for satisfaction to be given to those who wanted to discuss the papers. Anyone who has been at a seminar will know that some of the greatest value is gained from discussion - informal, private and general - at meal breaks in lunch hours and during morning and afternoon tea breaks. 
This is so, for those who like it, senator. This was the situation on the Saturday of the seminar. I must say that as the Assitant Minister present, as the  Chairman  of the Committee that had brought forward this report and also as the person who had opened the seminar, I had to do what I could to see that a successful outcome was achieved. There was co-operation from all sides. I was greatly assisted by senior members of the Commonwealth Department of Health who were present. In private discussion it was seen where the discussions could lead and what we could hope to achieve. The Leader of the Government in the Senate used the word 'de-fused'. I think that was quite a good word to describe what happened. We were able to see each other's point of view and to gel differing views considered. 
On Saturday night the seminar was not in session and a fairly lengthy buffet dinner was held. During that dinner much discussion took place. On Sunday morning we were able to come forward from the body of the seminar with a motion which has resulted in the setting up of a committee. It is hoped that from this action committees composed of drug educationalists and representatives of the news media will be set up in each State so that the aims of the seminar will be achieved. It is hoped that by responsible reporting and the fullest co-operation between the media, the drug educationalists and the Department of Health, the people of Australia will be given through the news media the best information possible in the fight against the drug menace in Australia. If I have played any part in helping to achieve that end I am proud and satisfied. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is the Minister aware that the revolving message and information board at Melbourne's Tullamarine Airport has been removed from the main passenger concourse to the ground floor departure lounge? Will he consider my suggestion that this useful piece of equipment should be returned to the concourse, which is used by all visitors as well as by passengers arriving, departing and in transit, whereas in the present position it is normally seen only by passengers leaving the airport by bus, taxi or private vehicle. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In view of the obvious benefits which would accrue from the adoption of the 24- hour clock system which is used in many services and spheres of activity here and abroad, and particularly because Qantas Airways Ltd and other airlines overseas use this system, will the Minister give favourable consideration to urging that the system be introduced for all airline schedules in Australia? Does he not agree that if this forward step were taken it would be a helpful move towards the gradual total adoption of the 24-hour clock system. 
-! will be brief. I understand that a number of the petitions received by honourable senators today  -  I have received one myself - are addressed to the Honourable the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives. I returned the one that I received to the top name and address on the list of signatories saying that 1 am not a member of the House of Representatives and 1 cannot present the petition to the  Speaker.  I understand and believe that on most of the petitions being presented today someone has crossed out the words 'House of Representatives' and put in the word 'Senate'. No honourable senator or person has the right to alter the name of the House to which the petition is to be presented without the permission of the signatories to it. Therefore, I believe that half of the petitions awaiting presentation are not legally valid to be presented to you today,  Mr President. 

 Senator PROWSE (Western Australia)Mr  President,  you will recall that I discussed with you the possibility of asking you a question along the lines of the concern indicated by  Senator Turnbull.  The honourable senator and 1 have something in common at last, namely, our reaction to what has happened. We have both received a maiden petition. I have never received a petition from a maiden. In this case it was with somewhat mixed feelings that 1 found that 1 shared the maiden petition with a great number of other honourable senators. I, like  Senator Turnbull,  was concerned at the manner in which the petition came to me. It was amongst a lot of other material on my desk. It had no covering letter and no request to present it. There was only the petition enclosed in an envelope. I assumed that the signatures printed on the document were authentic. Accordingly I handed the petition to the  Clerk  who proceeded to certify it in the usual way. I think that honourable senators have some obligation to verify the genuineness of a document that they present to this place. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. In view of the fact that Tasmanians suffer from high freight rates charged by the Australian National Line, and as many Tasmanians feel that waste of money caused by lack of business administrative ability on the part of the Line is partly the cause, will the Minister ask his colleague to inform the Senate of the cost of the current Press advertising campaign relating to the re-scheduling of the passenger cargo ships on the Bass Strait service? 
 Like  Senator Murphy,  I pay a sincere tribute to our parliamentary colleague  Senator Townley  on his outstanding maiden speech. Those honourable senators who have been members of this chamber for a long while would know that when I was appointed by the Tasmanian Parliament to this honourable chamber in 1953 I was secretary to the Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party in Tasmania, the  Hon.  Rex Townley, the father of our  Senator Townley.  After my appointment I became a parliamentary colleague of the late Athol Townley, Minister for Defence and for many other portfolios in his time, an uncle of our  Senator Townley.  I have had a long association with the Townley family. It has helped me in many aspects of my life. It is a great joy for me to be able to congratulate him on his maiden speech. He has adopted what I believe for a young man, a new man, to be an excellent practice. Since he was elected to the Senate he has watched, listened and learned. He has kept himself before the public by asking questions of a searching nature, seeking opinions and seeking help for the people whom he represents.  His  speech was bereft of party politics or kite flying. Well nigh a year passed before he made his maiden speech. 
I remember the late Harold Holt being asked by a new member whether that new member should make his maiden speech during the first debate in the Parliament. Harold Holt said: 'Do you know what Disraeli said when he was asked by a new member of the House of Commons: Should 1 make my maiden speech in the first debate,  Mr Prime  Minister?' That great man said: 'Young man, it is better that they ask: 'Why did he not speak?' than 'Why did he speak?'.  Senator Townley  has my congratulations. Tonight he has proved the value of waiting, listening and learning. He has come forward with a contribution that he will be able to circulate proudly to the electors of Tasmania. 
There is a degree of divergence of opinion between us on certain aspects of his speech tonight. I refer to the rather strong emphasis he placed on the cold and long winters in Tasmania, its isolation and that watery mass - Bass Strait - that separates us from our off-shore island. Admittedly the climate is cooler, but it is not the cold wet place that he made it out to be. Hobart has 24.87 inches of rain per annum. I believe that it has more hours of sunshine than any other Australian capital city. I believe that it has a clearer atmosphere and a better climate than any other capital city. I would like the honourable senator to join other senators from Tasmania, me particularly, in advocating for Tasmania an even more fair deal from the Commonwealth purse.  Senator Wood's  presence reminds me that I would like  Senator Townley  to join us in doing all we can to further the tourist potential of our island State - the most valued, valuable and varied piece of real estate in the Commonwealth - because it is from the tourist industry that we will get our improved standards of living from which better conditions will flow. 
I am glad that  Senator Townley  dealt with the situation in regard to the Tasmanian railways. Our early settlers and those in government were unwise when they placed the railways next to the sea along the northern coast and when they placed the road next to the railway. Today aircraft fly over the 3. That was bad planning. It is a plan from which we cannot escape. During the last 3 years the State Liberal Party Government did much to improve our road system. During those 3 years, by representations to the Commonwealth Government, the Liberal Government of  Mr Bethune  was able to start work on a railway from Launceston to the new industrial centre of Bell Bay. That railway was opposed by the previous government. I believe it is essential. That is why I am pleased that  Senator Townley  raised the point. It gives me the opportunity to join with him in expressing appreciation that the railway was commenced. I believe that we should press on with our claims for the Commonwealth Government to look at the Tasmanian railway system. 
We heard from Queensland senators a little about coal in the last 2 days. I am one who believes that if the railway system from the Fingal Valley through to the port of Bell Bay can be improved and if modern rolling stock can be acquired for the transport of coal we can see a rebirth of the coal industry in this industrious part of Tasmania. This is an industry that at the moment is practically dead. I will be alongside  Senator Townley  and my colleagues from whatever party or group they may come in making representations to this Government, of which I am proud to be a member, for instance, on the rehabilitation of our railway system. I know that  Senator Townley  will be willing to join me in making representations to the Commonwealth Government on a policy for which I have been pleading for a number of years. I am quite ready to admit that I cannot achieve all that I desire. However, this is a plea, through you  Mr Deputy President,  to  Senator Townley  that I hope he will join me in this respect. 
I now turn to Commonwealth expenditure in Tasmania on elements of the defence forces. I believe that Tasmania requires and deserves a better deal in respect to expenditure on defence Services. Also I believe that decisions in this regard should not be made just for the sake of spending money but for the strategic deployment of some of our Services. I have raised before today the question of transferring elements of the Navy to the Derwent estuary. Here is an ideal opportunity to deploy our naval forces and also to win political friends. I believe that we would win friends in New South Wales by taking some of the naval defence services from along the harbour shores of Sydney and returning those shores to the people of New South Wales. Some of these naval forces could be deployed in southern Tasmania. 
I do not propose to go any further into this matter. However, as a colleague from Tasmania I wanted to congratulate  Senator Townley  and to show my agreement with him in some respects although I admonish him a little perhaps for decrying our wonderful climate. 1 request him to muster all of the powerful self-will that he can bring to bear to support the things that I and my colleagues will be putting to the Government. 
You have not talked about the Bill. 
It is a coincidence - a happy coincidence for me - that on 1st June of this year I should rise to speak briefly on warning people of the health hazards of cigarette smoking. I say that because today 
I am celebrating my first year, after 30-odd years of smoking, of not having smoked a cigarette and I have enjoyed the best health I have had since I enlisted in the Second World War. So I can say that anything that will help to educate people, young and old, to give up the habit of smoking will have my earnest support and co-operation. Briefly I say that it is my sincerest opinion that if the Government had followed the advice and recommendations of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in respect to advertising and gone ahead with an education policy, much more good would have been flowing to the community than will flow from this legislation. In the belief, and only because I have that belief, that this legislation may - but I doubt it - help the young people I will be supporting it. But I cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Douglas  McClelland. 
We are told that it is aimed at young people. If there is anything the young people of today dislike it is big brother, authority, government, bosses. If any party is awake to that it should be the Australian Labor Party because it is always urging the young people to demonstrate against authority, government and big brother. Except for some members of the national Parliament, some medical authorities and some Ministers in the State governments, very few people in Australia in reality know what is the National Health and Medical Research Council. But the very words used indicate that it is a government instrumentality, the establishment, saying that smoking is a health hazard. 
The young people of today have more faith in and are more liable to follow the advice of their general practitioner or their medical authority. I do not know whether any good will flow from this legislation, but if it does I believe that more good will flow from it if the legislation is left as proposed, namely, that medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard. This takes away any suggestion of bosses and the establishment and brings young people face to face with their doctors. I believe that there would be a greater improvement if the word 'profession' was used instead of the word authorities'. The medical profession is a profession which is honoured and its advice  is followed by everyone. But I do not believe it would be right for the national Parliament to insert in the Bill at this stage 'the medical profession' because the profession as a whole cannot really say this and will not say it as too many of its members smoke. 
I would very much like to talk longer on the subject of the advertising and drugs but time is short and 1 am speaking only to an amendment. 1 have risen purely because I believe I am right in what I have said. I believe that is the only good that will flow from this legislation, which is an attempt by the Government to take the advice of the medical profession to try to help the people of Australia give away or cut down their smoking of a drug that is harmful to health. 
I rise in the role more of a dove than a hawk to address this question to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport. If I may be permitted a brief explanation; recently the 'Empress of Australia' sailed- 
Following the remark of the distinguished Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Gair),  I begin my closing speech in this Parliament on the work of this Committee by reminding every one of us that following consultation between the party leaders, a motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy),  seconded by the Leader of the Democratic Labor Party, and agreed to by the Government, to set up a committee of 8 senators came before this House. That Committee was the one effective and constructive action taken by Parliament on 25th November 1969 - the one-day meeting of this Commonealth Parliament. The Committee got to work.  I  have previously paid a tribute to my fellow members, but as a result of the intercession of  Senator Gair,  I feel I ought to say that from the moment  I  was elected  Chairman  of that Committee, I received the greatest nonparty support and loyalty that any senator could hope for from any 7 other senators from different political parties with different outlooks on life. I believe we were successful. On 6th May 1971, as was our right, we presented a report to this Senate. We were in effect reporting also about Australia to Australians, and, as it happened, to the world. Our report has been both widely received and acclaimed overseas in universities and by leaders of the World Health Organisation, and by many academics and medical experts and other professional people in this country. So whenever the Senate reviews the work of its committees, it can say that the Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse, thanks to the Senate itself, did a job for Australia. The report was presented some 18 months ago, and I have said that as well as reporting to the Senate, we were in effect reporting to Australia about Australians. That means that our report was a report for action by State governments, local government authorities, the Federal Government and by the people themselves. To those various governments it was a report for action by the health authorities, education authorities, social welfare authorities and law enforcement authorities. For the Commonwealth Government, in addition to the Department of Health, the Department of Customs and Excise is deeply concerned with it. 
None of as should think that nothing had been done or that nothing had been known about the drug problem either in Australia before this Committee was set up. It was set up because  Senator Murphy  and his colleagues and  Senator Gair  and his friend or two realised there was a problem in Australia from drugs; as a result of their reading they were aware what a terrible problem it was in other countries. They wanted to help stem the tide of drugs from flowing across this lucky country. There is no doubt that governments were acting to prevent the misuse and the abuse of drugs, and from the moment our Senate Committee began, its public hearings, the good that was to flow from them began, though perhaps only as a trickle. I sincerely believe that the news media throughout Australia reported those hearings widely and fairly; the media gave a very good and a fair coverage to the activities of the Committee which brought home to the people, far better than we could from this parliamentary building, the problems and the dangers of the drug situation in Australia. The good flowed all the time and has continued to flow throughout Australia; more and more interest is being evoked as more people realise that the misuse of drugs can be so harmful in so many ways to their kith and kin. Since I was privileged to be  Chairman  of that Committee and since I am now privileged to hold the position of Assistant Minister to the Minister for Health, I am called upon to visit the States and to address various seminars on the subject of drugs and the misuse of drugs in Australia. 
I have noticed that the attendances at the seminars are becoming larger. The questions are becoming more learned and more on the ball, and people are more interested to know how they can learn means of helping in their family life, personal life or social life when drug problems are met. Regardless of governments, even regardless of the news media, the impetus given to informing the people of Australia of the problems of drug misuse is increasing and is being effective. I say without hesitation and without knowingly over praising our report that it is a living document that can still be up to date in 10 years time. It can help any person who has a problem or who knows anybody with a problem. It is a document that can help anybody who is man enough or woman enough to wake up to the fact that he or she has a problem. It will give them the encouragement that recovery, if not cure, is possible. It will lead them to know that recovery is something for which they can be grateful. 
The report can be read with profit at any time by any unbiased learned member of the medical profession. Any doctor could gain some help and realisation of his responsibilities in the community. Educationists could read our chapter on education and consider curriculums and education systems necessary in the years ahead. All social workers could read the report and add to their learning and understanding of a problem with which they must be dealing each day of their working lives. 
Pharmacologists could read the report and gather, if they read it with a desire to learn, that theirs is a very great responsibility to impart to the medical profession and all those people who prescribe drugs a knowledge of the pharmacology of drugs, the effects of mixtures of drugs and the requirement to warn people against mixing medicinal drugs with alcohol. I 'believe that there are people in most of the professions who could read our report at any time in years to come and learn something of value. 
It is often suggested that after committees are set up, they report to the Parliament,, and the reports are pigeonholed. It so happens that the Federal and State governments have taken our report very seriously. In response to our recommendations they have taken decisive, helpful and preparatory actions in their own fields of responsibility. I was hoping that my Minister,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, would make a statement in this debate but he is indisposed at present. I therefore believe it to be fitting and proper that I should inform the Senate from a paper that has been prepared for me of some of the actions taken on the recommendations of our Committee so that the information will be on record in Hansard as we debate the report. 
The first recommendation in the report - it is by no means the most important but it is a very important recommendation - concerns the statistics on drug dependent people in Australia today. We found it necessary to discover how many drug dependent people there are in Australia, the main drugs on which they are dependent, and any other information concerning numbers and types that could be made available on a reliable basis. In any field in which we looked we could not find reliable statistics'. This recommendation has been fully considered by Federal and State government departments. They have decided that they want to produce an Australiawide system. The Victorian Government has undertaken to evolve a system and has set up a committee under the direction of  Dr Alan  Stoller, a learned and widely known and respected man in the field. The committee is undertaking a pilot study and we hope that it will produce a plan for a system of maintaining reliable statistics. We are hopeful that it will tell the nation how improvements can be effected in respect of dependence on drugs. 
I can assure honourable senators that there are many problems. People do not report. Doctors do not like dobbing in people. Understandably, doctors do not like to tell their friends that they are dependent on this drug or that drug. They do not like to number them in the statistics of drug dependent people. I am dealing with these recommendations in the order in which they appear in the report. The second recommendation relates to law enforcement in Australia and other countries. It is pleasing to know that a meeting of enforcement agencies of 14 nations in the area particularly applicable to Australia and representatives of the United Nations and Interpol met in Canberra in November last year further to develop the already existing chain of communication on law enforcement as it applies to trafficking in illegal drugs. 
I stick by our third recommendation but in my fondest dreams I did not expect it to be put into operation overnight. We recommended that in time a special coastguard service be established to help to stop drug running around Australia's 12,000 miles of coastline. Just as Australia is the new frontier for tourism, so is this affluent country the new frontier for the drug runner and the drug trafficker. So devious are their methods, so great is their cunning that almost every mile of our coastline will have to be surveyed if we are to apprehend the would-be smugglers. At present the Government feels that all it can do in this respect is to leave the problem as part of the responsibilities of our Navy and Air Force. 
The fourth recommendation concerns bromureides which we suggested, because of the danger of misuse, should be available only by prescription. In Queensland, Tasmania, the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory bromureides have been sold only on prescription for some time. Victoria now also has limited sales of bromureides to prescription. Similar action has been taken in New South Wales. The matter is still under consideration in both Western Australia and South Australia, but I believe action is contemplated. 
Our fifth recommendation was that tablets should be individually foil wrapped. Tricyclic drugs under regulations issued as from 1st August have to be wrapped. Under its own resources the pharmaceutical profession is seeing to it that this is done with a great number of types of tablets which, are available. So we can say that this recommendation has been adopted and is being put into operation gradually and satisfactorily. As another recommendation we did request action on the labelling of drugs so that people who could be in a position to use them would be able to know of the dangers and the side effects. This recommendation is being given serious consideration by relevant committees and people. However, the problem arises as to how much can wisely be put on the label of a small container so that it will be read by the person using it. There is also the difficulty of language. But I can assure the Senate that it is realised that this is a problem and some work is being done in this regard. 

 Senator Turnbull surprised me by one of his comments. I bow to his superior medical knowledge, but I heard him say - he was questioned on the figure - that to take 80 aspirins a day was quite all right if one wanted to take 80 aspirins a day. This is contrary to any evidence the Committee received on the taking of aspirins or minor analgesics. We received a lot of evidence on this matter and from other reading it is quite obvious that the medical profession throughout the world believes that aspirin is the cause of a tremendous percentage of kidney trouble. This Government has made funds available for research on this problem to be carried out by one of Australia's greatest experts in this field of medicine,  Dr Priscilla  Kincaid-Smith. 
Our eighth recommendation, which is perhaps one of the most important to be considered right across the spectrum of human endeavour, referred to the living environment: 
The priority being placed on growth, development and material wealth should be critically examined so that greater resources may be devoted to improving the living environment of the community. 
This is not a health problem and it is not altogether a government problem; it is a social problem and it is a problem that leaders in the social field and educational field should be considering. I believe that we hit the nail on the head - we have not been alone in making this opinion known - when we said that a lot of the problems of drug misuse and drug abuse are the result of our living environment, the age in which we live and the manner in which we live in it. On that aspect of the whole inquiry I wish to say that it became evident to me, and a surprise to me, that in fact there are more potentially drug dependent people than there are drugs of dependency. In other words, the human personality or lack of personality - the human make-up - is more liable to cause an above average, healthy person to become dependent on a drug than is the drug itself. I except heroin and morphine from that aspect. So if we are really to try to beat the drug menace in Australia it is important that we get to people not only through education but also through the environment in which they live. We have to take from them the stresses and strains so that they do not fall to the habit of taking drugs which, because of their own personality and other defects, will lead them to be prone to addiction to them. 
The Committee's recommendation concerning advertising has not been adopted by the Government. I say quite frankly that I regret this. It is my belief - and the Committee seemed to feel the same way - that part of our problem is accentuated because of the over promotion of all drugs - both therapeutic and socially and legally acceptable drugs such as tobacco and alcohol which we found to be the greatest harm doers in Australia today. We suggest that money spent on the advertising of any or all drugs in any way in Australia should not be subject to taxation rebate. My thinking on this was that if this recommendation were adopted by the Government we would more than halve the amount of advertising and we would increase Commonwealth revenue because there would be no taxation rebates. Government revenue would be increased to such an extent that we would have all the money we wanted to spend on treatment centres and treatment facilities. The Government has seen fit not to adopt our recommendation. Having heard no argument whatsoever against the recommendation, I see fit to say here in the Senate that I am disappointed that it has not been implemented. I want to say one other thing in respect of this matter. Since this Committee's report and that recommendation were made known - I mentioned it in my opening speech on 6th May 1971- 
That the granting of tax concessions for all drug advertising should be discontinued. I have spoken on this subject at seminars throughout the country. One such seminar was held at the Wayside Chapel of the Cross. The Reverend Ted Noffs and I challenged the news media of Australia to give publicity to this recommendation of ours and have it debated publicly through the news media. Not a word to Bessie. I myself have not seen any public reference to this aspect of the Committee's report, and I cannot help but say that I regret it. 
Our next recommendation concerned the reporting by the news media of certain aspects of drug misuse and the bizarre effects of drugs. I am glad to say that this evoked the interest of the news media and a conference was called. As a result, a seminar, which was criticised at one time in the Senate was held in this capital city of Canberra, and I had the privilege of speaking to it. Quite frankly, it took 2 days for us to get an understanding on the direction in which we were going and why we wanted to go in that direction. It was a most fruitful seminar. As a result committees have been set up in several of the States - in other States they are being formed - on which the news media and the health authorities, governmental or private, are able to get together and talk about drug education through the media and drug reporting in the media. I am not having 2 bob each way with the media because there are 2 different aspects - advertising and reporting. Advertising is done by those who are looking after the finance, and reporting is done by those who are deciding what the paper will publish and how it will be published. I have high hopes that the newspaper reporting of and education on the drug situation in Australia will continue to improve and that governments will get great co-operation from the media. 
The Committee recommended that as much publicity as possible should be given to the whole problem of drug dependency and misuse of drugs so that the people become aware of the problem. This enlightening of the public is done by education, by speeches from people who know about the matter and by the holding of seminars. I have already said that, in my view, this enlightenment is being done. The Committee has no cause to worry that that recommendation has been left unnoticed. 
The next recommendation referred to voluntary organisations. The report stated that every encouragement should be -given to the development of voluntary organisation in the community available for counselling those with personal problems and for providing emotional support to those needing it in times of stress or crisis. Those times are the times when persons, young or old, need help. I like to call the places at which persons can get help ports of call. There is the Buoyancy Foundation in Melbourne, the Bomb shelter in Queensland and the Reverend Noff's show in Kings Cross. There are others throughout Australia. I cannot recall the names at the moment, but in each capital city work is being done by voluntary organisations. 
That is one of the leaders. I want to see big business, private enterprise and individuals come to the financial help of the organisations. They should not have to rely on government money. If government money is provided there has to be supervision. If there is government supervision the young people will not come to these places. They want to go somewhere where Big Brother will not know about it. They want to go where they can receive help and encouragement and a bed for the night, if possible. There is a home in Sydney, Wistaria House, which is run by a great doctor,  Dr Stella  Dalton, where men live while they are recovering from the effects of their dependency on drugs. They get back into life and into jobs and when they have recovered fully, or as fully as possible, and have saved some money they can get back into normal life and normal social activities. In my belief, we want this help to come from the people for the people, not from the Government. In my belief, persons with a drug problem will not go to a government instrumentality for help because they feel that they will become names on a list of suspects, that they will be treated as probable criminals and that they will be followed for the rest of their lives or until the authorities can catch up with them. Therefore they do not feel that it is worthwhile reporting. If they could go to a port of call where they could get help, I believe that many young people and old people would be quickly cured of their dependence. 

 Senator Turnbull, who is a doctor, was critical of the Committee's comments about over prescribing of drugs by the medical profession. The Committee's recommendation was based on evidence. I was amazed at the lack of numbers of doctors who gave evidence to the contrary. I still believe that the medical profession has to consider its responsibility. Does a doctor prescribe a drug or does he give a sociological talk to the patient whom he thinks may be a potential drug dependent person? 
 I have 'been placed in an embarrassing situation because I thought the debate would end at 3.10 p.m. I shall continue putting on record aspects &lt;of the recommendations and action taken cm the report of the Senate ;Select Committee on 
Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in relation to marihuana. Obviously the Government is going to accept the Committee's recommendation and it is not going to legalise marihuana. I can say that that has the full approval of all State governments. It is true that the Commonwealth has not taken heed of our recommendation for an immediate grant of $5m to the States - according to their requirements - for treatment centres. But I am informed that a report prepared by the Mental Health Committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council is currently under study by Commonwealth and State Departments of Health in preparation of a review by a conference of Commonwealth and State Ministers in relation to this matter. At least it can be recorded that the governments are considering this aspect. 
I think that enough has been said and is known in relation to education but, for  Senator Turnbull's  information, I say that the Commonwealth has produced, under a vote of $500,000, in the last 3 years a lot of very worthwhile pamphlets, television shorts and films which have been made available to and are greatly appreciated by the State governments which are using them according to their sovereign rights as they wish to have them. The Committee's recommendations in relation to penalties have been referred to. The situation is that all States have agreed on the maximum penalties for drug offenders which is in accordance with the Committee's recommendations. Of course penalties are up for review. Opinions will always differ as to whether a problem is cut out by increasing the severity of a penalty. As a Committee we were worried that in some States heroin, which is an illegal drug in Australia, could still be retained in chemists' shops. I am glad to say that the last bastion of heroin in Australia is going to be closed very shortly. I believe it is true to say that when this happens anybody holding stocks of heroin in Australia will be guilty of an offence. 
The Government is fully conscious of its responsibilities as 'brought to its notice by the Committee in regard to international agreements. Of course, we know that it has ratified the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. In relation to drug abuse research money has always been available. From this it is obvious to me that the Government has shown itself willing to provide funds for suitable drug research projects to be carried out in Australia when application is made. The Committee made a recommendation regarding the setting up of a committee to oversee all the educational and sociological aspects of the drug problem in Australia. An education sub-committee to which -I have referred has been working on this matter. There are signs that the States and the Commonwealth want to alter the set-up and perhaps improve it and give the committee more power and bring in a wider coverage of people suitable for it. One can say that this is under way. As a result of the Committee's report a senior specialist to advise on problems associated with drug dependence took up duty with the Commonwealth Department of Health in December 1971. I know that his services both as a guide and counsellor .on aspects of the problem of drug dependence have had a valuable part to play in the Commonwealth Department of Health and I believe his goodwill has flowed throughout the Commonwealth. 
I can never be responsible for who will read 'Hansard and who will not. Like  Senator Turnbull,  I might be skating on thin ice if I said any more. I thank the Senate for its indulgence. I have put on record a brief outline of the progress being made. Perhaps I have enlarged a little more than I should have and commented on particular aspects of the drug problem which I see as so important. I finish toy saying: Please 'do not leave the Senate and say that the drug problem is the problem of the youth of Australia. The drug problem is the problem of the adult population of Australia who are responsible for it and who participate in it. A very small proportion of the youth of Australia today is abusing drugs. It is the simple truth, according to the information which I have available, that the youth of today will give the drugs away after the age of 25 years. It is by example more than precept, by being fair in our comments and wide in our understanding that we may play some part in carrying on  the  work which I think the Senate Committee did a lot to start. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Cotton)  adjourned. 
 In rising to speak briefly to this report I should like to deal with one reference made by  Senator Wilkinson.  I could not quite understand the burden of his complaint about possible absences of senators from committee meetings. I have been a member of a number of committees, and I have chaired about 7 public inquiries conducted by committees of the Senate. In my opinion it is impossible, because of the busy lives that senators lead, to arrange meetings of committees and so progress with an inquiry if one is to wait until every member can be present. As a result of this experience 1 say: Give me the senator who reads the submissions that are sent in, who reads the daily Hansard and who attends the meetings when the report is being drafted. He is the one from whom I get value. Of course, I should like to see every member of committees present at all meetings. Nevertheless it does not in my opinion detract from the work of a committee if a senator is absent from a meeting or 2 during the course of an inquiry. He has the advantage of transcripts of evidence, the submissions which are circulated, and the daily Hansard of proceedings. 
This reference to the Standing Committee on Industry and Trade was made on 3rd September 1970. I think it will go down in history as the first reference ever made to a legislative and general purpose standing committee of the Senate. As with all innovations there were teething troubles. In my view the terms of reference were too broad. What was wanted was a fortnight's inquiry into specific facts and a finding submitted to the Parliament. But because of the terms of reference, and other factors of which I am not sure, the Committee was not able to present its report to the Parliament until June 1971. 
That is an added factor for one of the weaknesses in this inquiry. Here we are in August 1972 continuing the debate. I think that there have been at least 2 increases in freight rates by the Australian National Line on the Tasmanian service since the Committee was set up'; I say that we have reached the situation where we have possibly a more unsatisfactory service, at very high cost to the people of Tasmania than we have ever had during my period in Parliament. A deputation of Tasmanians waited on 2 of our Ministers yesterday. According to the Tasmanian Press the deputation was well received. It comprised businessmen and State Government Ministers and officers. They put up a well-documented case which I hope is going to be well and truly considered by the Government. 1 hope that a lot of sympathy and understanding will be given to the problems which exist in Tasmania today because of its dependence on a shipping service which is really a ferry service. Unions and management do not seem to understand that it is a ferry service and, as far as possible should be exempt from industrial trouble. 
The Minister for Works  (Senator Wright)  referred to the huge increase in wages since this Committee started to operate. By way of interjection  Senator Rae  got into the record the information on page 47 of the report. Under the heading 'Industrial Troubles', it is stated that up to that time industrial troubles had cost the line some $600,000 in net loss of revenue. I wonder how many hundreds of thousands of dollars have been lost to the line since that time? I would like to see a return showing each stoppage on Australian National Line ships trading to Tasmania in the last 12 months, the actual loss of revenue, the damage done to the reputation of the Line as a shipper of goods and passengers and the very heavy cost in advertising and communicating to people that the ships will not run. They have to tei] people: 'The ship may run tomorrow', or 'it will not run tomorrow, it may run next week'. The amounts of money involved would be terrific. 1 do not think we can go on like this. Tasmania is obtaining a less effective service. Through the Federal Government it is costing the people much more money. At the same time it is costing the shippers and the passengers more money for a service which is becoming more unsatisfactory. 
Recently I booked on the 'Empress of Australia' to leave Port Melbourne at 7.30 at night. My booking was accepted at 4.30 p.m. I boarded the ship at the given hour of 6 p.m. Blind Freddy could tell that the ship was not going to sail. But the information given to me was that it would be sailing and that dinner would be served at 7.30  -  and you line up downstairs and take your turn. Some 400 passengers were on board including parties of children. The airline strike was on at the lime. At 7.20 they started to move the gangway to indicate that the ship was prepared to sail on time. At 7.30 there was no action. At 7.45 it was announced over the public address system that owing to an industrial dispute the 'Empress of Australia' would not sail that night but that passengers might stay on board. It was announced that there would be absolutely no service whatsoever and that the ship might or might not sail on the next scheduled date which was Friday. This was a Wednesday night. 
There were 2 or 3 members of the Tasmanian Government Tourist Bureau on the Port Melbourne ferry terminal, which does bear comparison with the terminals in Sydney, Devonport or Hobart. I must say that comparatively speaking it is out in the bush. It is miles away from the centre of the city. Most of the 400 passengers had unpacked their gear and, no doubt, some of the little ones would have gone to bed. There were 2 people and 2 public telephones to assist the passengers. If any member of Parliament, the bosses of the unions or of the ANL management had been at that ferry terminal their hearts would have bled for the discomfort of the people concerned. At the moment I am speaking about people only. However, I must say that the Tourist Bureau people were excellent. They got on a telephone because the other telephones were swamped with people making personal calls. The officers of the Tourist Bureau arranged for taxis to take the people into town. I would like to know the amount of economic waste caused by that one failure to depart. Over the years that can be multiplied by 10 or 20. No government and no private enterprise can run a shipping line when this sort of interruption is going to occur to its service. 
It was an industrial dispute caused by the stewards. I am not against the stewards on this matter because I do not set myself up as a judge. But after the 'Empress' was taken off the Sydney-Hobart run a number of sleeperette chairs were put in what were previously verandah lounges and the dining-room service was reduced to cafeteria style. Evidently the powers that be - possibly the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission or some official body with some say in the matter - said that there would not be the dining-room service, that there would be more passengers with fewer stewards. It is my belief, and I implied this by way of question when people tried to sit me down the other day, that at half-past 4 from that afternoon the ANL knew that it would not give in lo the union demands to provide more stewards. I believe it knew - if not it has lost its sense of touch - that the stewards were not going to give in, that they wanted to go on strike and would go on strike. I believe that for the sake of humanity the people concerned - forgetting the economic side - should have announced that the ship would not sail. This is why I suggested by way of question, and I emphasise it here, that there should be some decency, courtesy and commonsense brought to bear on management and unions so that an announcement will be made that the ship next sailing after the one scheduled will be the one which will be stopped because of a strike. I believe that both union and management, for the sake of the people, should co-operate in this respect. 
Getting back to other aspects of the Tasmanian ferry service, a lot of people say that to overcome the problems of stewards going on strike there should be a daylight service. I do not believe this to be feasible. We have one of the roughest stretches of water in the world. I do not believe that we can put 400 or 500 people on a ferry service during daylight hours in a ship which does not have cabin accommodation. If there is going to be cabin accommodation there is a need for stewards. Therefore, the ships should travel, as all ferries do, during the hours of night. It is only a 14-hour crossing at the most. I believe that something has to be done to operate a satisfactory passenger service. We have a good airline service but a passenger and cargo service is essential to keep Tasmania viable economically. 
The Government has to decide whether it will run the Line completely or whether it will get out completely and provide a subsidy as it did in the old days. I do not believe that the Australian National Line, as at present constituted, will ever successfully own and operate the ships while private enterprise companies and travel agents arrange all the bookings, and the lack of bookings. I believe the Government should go the whole hog. If it is to be Government owned, it should be like TransAustralian Airlines and do its own bookings. Ever since the 'Empress of Australia' and the 'Princess of Tasmania' began operating I have said that the passenger side of it - the bookings - has been the killer. Anytime one tries to make a booking with the ANL, or with the Union Steam Ship Company or any of the travel agencies one is told that the ships are booked out for years ahead. I would not mind betting that they hardly make a trip with full bookings. 
I want to take no further part in this debate other than to suggest that unions and management get together for the sake of the people. I believe that the Government has to give very serious consideration to taking complete charge of the service or getting out of it and letting private enterprise take over and to then pay a subsidy. I believe that in the old days of the Taroona' it cost 1,000 a day- $2,000 today - to operate the Bass Strait ferry services. Probably we are losing more money a year now because of the way it is being run which is half-hearted and unsatisfactory. The service is doing terriffic harm to Tasmania's economy in respect of freight and also to what could be a rapidly growing tourist industry. That will continue to happen if we are asked to survive with the poor services that we have now. 
Relative to the last  2  questions asked by honourable senators opposite I ask: Can the Attorney-General inform the Senate whether he has any knowledge of any information flowing from the plush headquarters of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or any other trade union to the Commonwealth or Victoria Police to help them solve the crimes allegedly committed within Painters and Dockers Union circles? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Shipping and Transport, arises from an inference I gained from the Minister's answer to a question from  Senator Townley  that because a Senate Committee was opposed to a freight rate subsidy to Tasmania, that would be the finish of the matter and there would be no freight rate subsidy. Can he assure the Senate that although an important Committee of the Senate expressed lack of agreement to a shipping freight subsidy to assist Tasmanian industry this will not be the final consideration by the Government of what, on the surface appears to be the most reasonable means of assisting Tasmania to combat the ever increasing and crippling shipping costs? 
 In rising to speak to the Bill I am struck by the feeling that we must admit that at times the Australian Democratic Labor Party reminds me of the selling point of a little pill some years ago - it is small but active. The members of the Democratic Labor Party have had some considerable knowledge of the policy of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Murphy,  who wants the vote to go to  18  year olds.  Senator Murphy  and the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton),  who put forward the Government's view on this Bill, were allowed to make their speeches on the measure, and then the leader for the Democratic Labor Party in this debate, the Party's esteemed Whip,  Senator Byrne,  introduced what someone called a blanket amendment, the blanket, I think, being the idea of swamping the purpose of the main Bill, drawing debate away from the main Bill and prolonging the debate - something like in a cricket match: Bring on your fast bowlers as the light is beginning to fade.  Mr President,  you have ruled - naturally I agree with your ruling implicitly - that only one paragraph of the proposed amendment can be allowed. This will prevent a wastage of some of the time that might have been expended in a debate on paragraphs  2  to  6  of the formerly suggested amendment. 
They may come up later on but now we will have some notice and be able to do our homework. If and when they come up later on we will be in a better position to speak to them. I am not going to be led away from the main purpose of the Bill for very long. In regard to the first matter, the Senate has been notified that a request has been made for each proposition to be put and voted upon separately. I rally to the support of  Senator Willesee,  the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. The way this amendment is framed does not, to my mind, suggest an alteration of the Electoral Act for a House of Representatives election. I have always understood that members in that House were elected by proportional representation. 
Preferential or proportional- 
I have never been able to have the clear difference explained to me.  Senator Byrne  did say that when the amendment to the Bill is introduced at the Committee stage he would have it so worded that we would understand the system of voting which he proposes. 
Yes, you did. The honourable senator said that he would explain the system. 
I do not want to argue. My recollection is that the honourable senator saw me in the Senate chamber and said:  'Senator Marriott  would know of the Tasmanian system'. I said something to this effect: 'To our disenchantment, we have it.' If the time comes when  Senator Byrne  has the opportunity to move an amendment to the Electoral Act in specific terms to introduce the system of grouped electorates to which he referred, if not in those words in similar words, I will be strongly opposing this. I would think that every political party in Tasmania would oppose the Hare-Clarke system which is known as the 'Mad March Hare-Clarke system*. It is known by all sorts of names. But there is only one reason why it is not being altered, has not been altered and I doubt will ever be altered. It is the very old political maxim: Do not change an act that gets you elected to Parliament. You can rave about compulsory voting and say that it is wrong or undemocratic. But if you are in government you will never change from compulsory voting. In the case of the British Parliament no government will ever change from free voting to compulsory voting. 
As it has been signified that we will be voting on this proposition, I want to make it perfectly clear that I will be voting against it, as I am now trying to speak against opposition from another corner of the Senate. I do not believe that the Parliament of this country would be improved in this way. I believe that it would be handicapped if a system of grouped electorates were to be introduced into the House of Representatives. The honourable senator also canvassed the idea that it might lead - he was not too sure - to the expansion of the House of Representatives. Then, the question was raised about the Senate and his Party's part in the referendum which defeated the breaking of the nexus when be was not in the Parliament.  Senator Byrne  gave me the impression that he felt it could be dangerous if we were to increase the numbers in the House of Representatives and have a small, powerful Senate in comparison. Therefore, he gave me the idea that he would have to look at enlarging the Senate also. I think that I have made perfectly clear the fact that I will be opposing the amendment moved by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. 
I will now refer to the Bill introduced by  Senator Murphy.  Its idea is clear cut. It is to amend the Electoral Act for the sole purpose of allowing 18 year olds to vote. I am in favour and have publicly declared myself in favour of giving 18 year olds the vote in Australia at the right time in all State and Federal elections. I hope it will be moderately early. 
I will not be drawn back by the honourable senator to refer to the discussion on the proportional system of representation. I have dealt with that and I am now dealing with the main purpose of the Bill which  Senator Murphy  had the courtesy to let us know about some weeks ago. In this case we are not speaking off the cuff on some hurriedly drawn ideas. The facts are today, as they have been ever since man started to make laws, that after about their 14th year youths throughout the western world at any rate seem to face some new relief or take unto themselves more power and responsibility. In some States they are permitted to leave school at 14 years. Whether that is relief or power is a matter for each individual to decide. In Tasmania we believe in a well educated State. That is why so many of our people go to the other Australian States and abroad to fill very important positions and why we have a school leaving age of 16 years. Then there are times when youths are licensed to drive a vehicle and ride a motor bike. Varying age limits are set down for this in the various States. With regard to taxation and child endowment a youth and his parents are encouraged to keep on with education to a greater age than hitherto has been the case. This Government encourages them to go on with their education, following upon our Tasmanian example. So allowances are provided up to the age of 21 years. As the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  said when replying to this Bill on behalf of the Government 21 has been the magical age when we get the key to the door and the right to marry if we so desire without our parents consent. It is an important aspect that in some States and I think under Commonealth law, 21 years is the age at which a person can enter into contracts. A person can buy and sell. That is an important power and responsibility to give to youth as it is an important power and responsibility to give to youth of today the vote in regard to their national and State elections. To my way of thinking, if they are not fit to do the one they are not fit to have the right to do the other. In other words, if the youth of today is classified as being too immature to withstand the wiles of salesmen - and many people older than 21 fall for them - they have no right and are not mature enough to cast a vote in parliamentary elections. 
It is very helpful to get suggestions along the lines of your own thoughts just before you utter them. If the honourable senator reads Hansard tomorrow I think he will realise that what I have been saying is the lead up. I am being very methodical tonight. If a youth is fit to vote he should be considered fit to enter into legal contracts, to buy and sell, and to enter into hire purchase agreements. At 18 years of age, the 2 main political parties represented here and, I am certain, the Democratic Labor Party have subscribed to the view that the male youth of Australia is old enough to go to war. 1 have subscribed to that view. I saw untrained 18-year olds arriving in New Guinea in 1942 and 1943. They were sent to us to go to war. 
I do not think so. They were allowed to vote, were they? It seems as if I am going over to  Senator Murphy's  side. 1 was a little older than 18 years during the last war. If we have allowed our servicemen to vote at the  age  of 18 years, I believe we should give every youth of 18 years the right to vote because we should classify every youth in Australia as being willing, if called upon, to take some part in the defence of his or her country. If we give a vote to those youths that we make serve or allow to serve, we should give a vote to those who can serve if something terrible happens and we want to serve in some way. I am one of those people who know quite well that many men and women served their country just as valiantly by staying at home, with much sorrow, as those who went to foreign climes. 
Some people are not able to control themselves and wait before making silly remarks.  I  want  to  speak about the matter of people over 18 years who, I agree, are fit and mature enough to vote and who we classify as being fit to go to war and to enter into legal contracts. If they are so classified, can we stop this arrant humbug that we have heard in recent months and years since the Vietnam conflict began - this nonsense, this hypocrisy that we hear from people who refer to these poor kids that are being forced into uniform, these children who have to go on to a parade ground and who have to endure a sergeant major going crook at them when the only hard words they have ever heard before have come from their mothers. 1 refer to this nonsense that we hear, that men in uniform at 18 years of age are children or kids. 
Let us all remember when talking about this business of age that an old person is someone older than the person who is talking or thinking. In other words, to me an old man is someone in the range of 70 to 80 years. Sometimes when I see some of my friends around this place I realise that they think that I am growing old. Using the same reasoning, it is my belief that youth is not only in the eye of the beholder. A young person is someone younger than oneself by 10 years or more. Therefore, these 40-year olds in this chamber who are smiling are young in my estimation. But that gives no-one the right to say, no matter how old or middle aged they may be, that kids of 18 years of age are in uniform and that children are leaving their parents in order to go into camp. I agree that in the age in which we live they are still undertaking education and the like but I am only speaking about Australia - that is all the Bill is about - and who is fit to vote. 
I am talking about Australians. Whether the Papuans and New Guineans aged 18 are capable of casting a vote is not within  my  knowledge. However, I do not know  why  there  has  not been  a  statement of Government policy on this matter. It is my belief that if we are to give 18-year olds  a  vote we also have to give them the right to enter into legal contracts, to buy and sell legally, and to have other powers a.id responsibilities. 
Half a moment. I will come back to you. 
What was it? 
I believe that the rights now vested in our people at the age of 21 years should be given to our youth in one piece of legislation, or by the necessary pieces of legislation coming before the Parliament at the one time and receiving royal assent at the one time. Our youth should be given all these powers. I would support such legislation. 
That has not been done. I will vote for this measure when that situation exists throughout Australia. The Attorneys-General can meet and make up their minds. In my opinion the Senate cannot wisely pass this Bill at this stage when it knows, even if  Senator Murphy  did not listen to the late news tonight, that the date of the election is to be announced some time next week or the week after next. Therefore we know that the election will be held in November or December. This Bill could not come into operation in time to be effective for the coming House of Representatives election. I conclude my speech by saying that when all powers now given at the age of 21 years are given at 18 years I will support the right of 18 to 20 year olds to vote. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. In respect of his problem of the parallel time-tables of the major airlines, is he aware, and if not will he find out whether it is a fact, that when the current schedules of the major airlines were prepared one of the airlines issued its schedule which was an attempt to get away from the parallel times of running; then, when the other airline saw the new schedules, although it had its own schedules prepared and printed, it withdrew them and prepared new schedules which proved to be in keeping with the parallel times of departures and arrivals on the major routes? 
If it were not for the hard, cold fact that this Senate must adjourn by some time late on Wednesday night because of a general election which no-one can stop I could take my whole hour of allotted time to refute some of the well meant but false arguments put by  Senator Milliner.  All I say in relation to the speech made by  Senator Milliner  is that I do not believe it fair either to the Australian fruit growers or to the Federal and State governments to infer that over the years money spent in assisting the fruit industry is money wasted. Even if the honourable senator opposes the limiting of production by pulling out the trees it is palpably wrong to say that growers are being paid to reduce production. They are being paid to diversify and reconstruct. We hope that there will be production of other primary produce in place of fruit where it has been proved and agreed to by the growers - they are the people with the bank balances who are worrying - that under the conditions governing today in the world markets now available they are unable to produce the fruit for the return they are obtaining on the Australian market. 
But I leave that matter only because of time. I am going to limit my time to allow other debates to ensue tonight. I want to correct what I believe is an error made by a Tasmanian colleague in another place, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  He is always well informed and sincere in his approach to the fruit industry. My attention has been drawn to an opinion expressed by  Mr Duthie  about the shipping of the Tasmanian fruit crop. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  in a previous debate today told us how people, interested in implementing Government legislation, read Hansard and how they are often guided by factors put forward by honourable senators and honourable members in Hansard. Therefore I want to express my view and correct the statement which was made by  Mr Duthie  in the House of Representatives. As recorded in the House of Representatives Hansard of 17th October at page 2648  Mr Duthie  stated: 
Fifthly, we need better arrangements in the United Kingdom for the disposal and sale of our fruit. As 60 per cent of our fruit is marketed in the London area our fruit should go to London. Instead our fruit ships are being directed to Liverpool and to Hull at odd times and fruit has to be brought from these cities to London some times at 12c a bushel extra. This cost is loaded on to the English consumer's price. This is a disastrous system. 
The inference is that we should ship all our fruit through the port of London and save costs, thereby making it a better proposition. Having had my attention drawn to this matter I discussed it with my friend and colleague  Senator Rae  who thought the Bill was going to come to come on last night when 1 had a deputation to receive. I thought that he was going to make this correction or explanation of what is our considered view after further research. I have had help in my research from my colleague  Senator Rae.  We believe that the statement made by  Mr Duthie  needs some clarification. We acknowledge that the last season's arrival dates of ships at the ports of Liverpool and Hull were somewhat closer together than desirable. A number of other market and cost factors are important. 
The recent history of shipping fruit to the United Kingdom from Tasmania has been one of endeavouring to arrange for a system which is the most efficient and provides the greatest returns to growers. Shipping through the ports of Cardiff and London as well as Liverpool and Hull has been tried. Some of the important considerations include not only the question of port charges, the nearness of the market and transport costs from the port to the market, but also the question of surcharges imposed by some shipping companies in respect to the use of the port of London, the speed of discharge and port handling, and also the availability of experienced and efficient land transport from the port to the market - something which J do not believe is not available at all ports. 
Other important questions for consideration include the arrival date of the ships from Tasmania in relation to each other and in relation to the ships from South Africa and our other competitors Western Australia and New Zealand. Both South Africa and Western Australia have the advantage of being able to have more fruit arrive on the British market earlier than Tasmania. Accordingly, it is necessary for Tasmania to be able to direct its land transport distribution in Britain to the best available market at the time of the arrival of the fruit and not necessarily dump its fruit on a perhaps already saturated London market. Added to that are other considerations such as the appropriate market for different varieties of fruit. I am assured that different areas of Britain have very clear preferences for particular varieties of apples, and trade tests have proved this. 
Anyone would suggest that many lessons have been learnt by the consortium or corporation known as Tasfruit during the last season. It is realised by this consortium that further improvements can be made, but it is misleading to state the case baldly in the terras used by  Mr Duthie. Mr Duthie  said that 60 per cent of the Tasmanian fruit is marketed in London. However, that may be so in a particular year but if adopted as an absolute practice, it may also result in lower prices being obtained if the London market is already flooded with other countries' fruit. This is the point which has to be watched when one talks about ports to which fruit is shipped.  Mr Duthie  also said that the system of shipping through Liverpool and Hull was disastrous because it cost up to 12c a bushel for land transport from those ports to London. He asserted that Tasfruit should be shipping through the Port of London. 
What he failed to say was that various efficiencies in the port of Liverpool, together with the comprehensive shipping and transport plan organised by Mersey Docks and Harbours Board, and the others associated with it, has resulted in a number of savings to the fruit shippers. For instance, the port charges in the port of Liverpool are now 3.5c a bushel less than those of the port of London. London has a poor record as most of us know for turnround speed and has a history of industrial and other troubles which I am informed have resulted in a shipping company surcharge of 10c a bushel being imposed on fruit shipped from other ports to London. Accordingly, the cost to land fruit at London is 13.5c a bushel higher than that for Liverpool. 
When one bears in mind the need for flexibility of distribution and the need for speed in unloading and for land transport to be immediately available, to get to the best markets at the particular time, then the preference by the Tasmanian corpora tion, Tasfruit, for the port of Liverpool for the distribution of the fruit is readily understood. They are some of the considerations which should be borne in mind when people are arranging the shipping of Tasmanian fruit in the future. I realise that the problem is complex but, with the lessons which were learnt last season, it is to be hoped that the price obtained next season will be better and that costs will be contained. 
In giving support to the Bill I do not intend to refer at length to the amendments. A fashion has developed in the Senate of Opposition parties moving addendas or so-called amendments to the Bill at the second reading stage. I classify these motions as well-intentioned significations of the point of view of the party which moves them. In other words, they are getting on the record in brief terms aspects of their policy on the legislation being dealt with. What is said on those occasions can be taken by the Government as a guide to the points of view it should consider. In this case I do not believe the amendments add anything of help to the fruit industry. I do not go along with all of  Senator Little's  very harsh criticism of the legislation. The legislation can do good, and I sincerely hope that it does. I differ slightly with  Senator Webster  who said that the fruit industry was important to Victoria. I say the fruit industry is important to Australia because it is important to Tasmania. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General in his twofold role as Attorney-General and representing the Prime Minister in some aspects of administration. Is it a fact that one of the earliest decisions of the present Government was that what are known as royal awards would not be granted in Australia in future? Is it a fact that when word of this decision went around,  Mr Reece,  the Premier of Tasmania, tore up his list of recommendations for royal awards? Is it also a fact that the legal profession has highly regarded the tradition that those who lead in the profession as barristers should become Queen's Counsel? Did the learned Attorney-General on his visit to England when he started to undo some of the remaining links between this country and the United Kingdom make any provision for the removal of the title of Queen's Counsel? If so, will lawyers in Australia be able to take silk? What initials will they be able to put after their names so that all and sundry will know that they are leaders in their profession? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Has it been decided whether the American Central Intelligence Agency has influenced or does influence the policies of the Australian Department of Defence as is apparently alleged by the former secretary of the Victorian Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hartley? 
1 ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: ls it not a fact that this administration and previous administrations have spent many millions of the taxpayer's dollars on education and can exert some influence on the education system throughout Australia? Is it not a fact that uniform spelling of words is desirable and that in respect of the English language system a style of long standing is taught throughout Australia? If the answers are yes, will the Minister give an assurance, and obtain one from the Prime Minister, that the efforts of one of the more eccentric Ministers in the second Whitlam Government to introduce a new and weird system of spelling within his department is stopped forthwith? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Secondary Industry able to inform the Senate whether any aspect of the Australian Government's policy has in part or in whole been responsible for the announced decision of a consortium of companies not to proceed with plans to construct in Australia a large industrial complex based on the steel industry? Would this unfortunate decision come to be classified as the worst blunder in the first 100 days of the Whitlam Administration? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the Senate whether, if problems associated with the ship 'Straitsman' are overcome and it is returned to the King Island service, that service will include the port of Stanley on Tasmania's north-west coast on which many thousands of dollars have been spent to enable it to provide correct facilities for servicing the Straitsman'? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. If, as he has told the Senate, the safes and filing systems of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Melbourne were sealed, will  he inform the Senate whether they are still sealed? If so, what benefits have accrued to the security of Australia? If they are unsealed, when were they unsealed? Has anything been taken out of those files which has been of benefit to him in his search for the security of Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. If the Minister is not able to do it immediately, will he endeavour as soon as possible to make a statement to the Senate indicating if and when legislative action will be taken to give effect to the recommendations contained in the Jess Committee's report on defence forces retirement benefits? 

 - Mr President, I think you will agree that in spite of the political heat which is engendered here the niceties of human life should not be allowed to go by. Therefore before asking my question of the Leader of the Government in the Senate I would like to say how pleased I am, as are all senators, at the happy event which occurred in his family in Sydney at the weekend. 1 congratulate him and  Mrs Murphy  - and I wish them and their child health and happiness. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In spite of the joyous family event and the heavy political duty undertaken by him in recent days, was the Minister able to relax on Saturday night and view the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Four Corners' and listen to his colleague  Senator Georges,  who appeared prominently and for such a considerable time that 1 understand that in ABC and media circles the program is known as the Georges Four Corners program? If the Minister watched the program, did he hear the questions posed to him publicly by his colleague and will he be able now or in the near future to give the Senate the benefit of his replies to those questions? 
My question contains a plea to the Leader of the Government in the Senate to restore one of the rights of hon  ourable senators. Perhaps  Senator Georges  could have withheld his tears until this question was answered. I ask the Leader of the Government: Is it not traditional in the Australian Parliament that, following a general election for the House of Representatives, there is a debate entitled the AddressinReply debate which gives all honourable senators the opportunity to address the Senate on any subject desired? Is it not customary for this debate to proceed and to be completed with as little interruption as possible? Will the Leader of the Government state why tradition has been trampled so blatantly in recent weeks, depriving honourable senators of their democratic right to address the Senate? Does the Leader of the Government think that action on his part this session to delay the debate is in the interests of open government? When is it anticipated that the Address-in-Reply debate, which was adjourned on 1 5th March, will be completed as was done several weeks ago in the House of Representatives, which has twice the number of honourable members. 
My question is  addressed to the Minster for the Media. If he has not already done so will the Minister give consideration to taking early legislative action to amend the Broadcasting and Television Act in relation to the ban on the broadcasting of political matter within 48 hours of an election? I am sure he will agree that in the past ithas been found impossible to put this ban into practice, particularly in relation to State elections and especially if they are held when the Australian Parliament is in session. 
My question is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. What specific evidence is in the possession of the Australian Government which has linked each or any of the-  4  Australian citizens executed or imprisoned 'in Yugoslavia with .any alleged Croatian terrorist activities in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If the Minister does not know th'e precise answer to my question, will he endeavour to obtain it? Does he know whether the information which came from moderately reliable sources is correct that the man who came to dinner at the Lodge and who was heralded and guarded in Australia as the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia is not in fact, as we know the Prime Minister, next in order of seniority to the  President  but in fact is approximately fourth or fifth down the line of seniority in his own country? If this is correct, was it known to the Government prior to his arrival in Australia? 
In addressing a question to the Minister for the Media, I wish to return to the subject of the People's Republic of China. Earlier today, the Minister told us of the great privileges bestowed by the bountiful goodness of Peking China to permit an Australian Broadcasting Commission cameraman and a newsman to stay in that country for a given period. Will he inform the Senate now or in the near future how many, if any, Peking Chinese cameramen and newsmen have been allowed into Australia? What restrictions, if any, as to time of stay and areas of travel are put on them? 
I believe that the Senate should agree to my spending a little time in speaking on this matter because the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory is a very important Committee to the people of the national capital. The Committee means much to the people. It was born in the Senate way back in 1957, and the idea was that it should be a Senate Committee. The Committee has been reappointed from parliament to parliament. In fact, 2 helpful things eventuated on the memorable and historical one-day sitting of this Parliament on 25th November 1969. The first was the appointment of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse and the other was the setting up again of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. 
From its inception the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory has worked very hard for the people of this Territory. It has held some 11 inquiries. Under the terms of its franchise and responsibilities it has studied 50 statutory variations to the plan of the national capital. Previously the Committee comprised of 5 senators - 3 Government senators and 2 Opposition senators - and 4 members of the House of Representatives, with a senator as the  Chairman.  The government of the day felt that the Senate should have the greater number of member on the Committee. In the message that we are considering, the House of Representatives is being given a greater number of members on the Committee. The Opposition parties have agreed not to oppose this more, but I believe that it is a retrograde step from the Senate's point of view. 
The idea of the Committee started in the Senate. It was supposed to be a Committee consisting only of senators, but the House of Representatives requested membership on the Committee and the Senate felt that at least the member for the Australian Capital Territory should be a member of the Committee. 
So Government and Opposition members in the House of Representatives were appointed to the Committee. The members from both Houses on the Committee have worked in great co-operation and tenaciously on all the references and duties which have been given to the Committee. I was privileged to be the  Chairman  of the Committee for some three or four years and during that time the Committee accomplished quite a lot, as it did under other chairmen. 
I must say that never once did the idea of party politics or ministerial control or interference become apparent on the Committee. But as has already been indicated, we object to paragraph (5) of the message which has been sent to us by the other place which states that the Prime Minister shall nominate one of the Government members of the Committee as the  Chairman.  In addition to what has been said previously on this matter, I believe it should be emphasised and put into the record that the Parliament does not believe that any committee  chairman  should be beholden to the Prime Minister for any period of time. The  chairman  of a committee must be elected by the members of the committee. As  Senator Withers  has said, it is true that normally - almost without exception - the person who becomes the  chairman  of a committee is the one whom the Government Party agrees should be the  chairman.  But it is possible that another Government senator or member could become the  chairman  of a committee if a committee is allowed, as has happened in the past, a secret ballot to elect a  chairman.  So believing that it should be in the hands of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory to elect its  Chairman,  on behalf of the Opposition I move the following amendment to the motion of concurrence in the House of Representatives' resolution: 
At end of paragraph (1), add - subject to the following modification - leave out paragraph (5), insert the following paragraph: 
That the committee elect as Chairman of the committee one of the members nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate'. 
At end of paragraph (3), add - with a request for the concurrence of that House in the Senate's modification of the resolution transmitted to the Senate by that House. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Original question, as amended, resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Yesterday, as recorded on page 1159 of Hansard, I put a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs.  His  answer indicates that he totally misunderstood my phraseology. Therefore, I now ask, inter alia: Is the man who came to dinner at the Lodge and who was heralded and guarded in Australia as the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia not, as we know the Prime. Minister, next in order of seniority to the  President  but, in fact, approximately fourth or fifth down the line of seniority in his own country? If this information is correct, was it known to the Government prior to the man's arrival in Australia? 
My question which Is addressed to the Attorney-General is in a lighter and more local vein than previous questions but is just as important. I fear that the impression may have been gathered earlier in question time that the young ladies - I think they are young - who are encamped on the lawns in front of Parliament House may be infringing the law. Is the Attorney-General not aware that the Minister for the Capital Territory, in keeping with the announcement he made on assuming office, has caused the Ordinance forbidding the camping by people on the lawns in front of Parliament House to be repealed and that now, under the Australian Labor Party in office, there is practically no restriction on what may be done by people on the lawns outside the national Parliament? 
Will the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate of the following, in respect of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation files which he confiscated during his visit to that body's Melbourne headquarters and later tabled in this chamber: What persons were authorised to copy the contents of those files? Is it known how many copies were made and what persons were put in possession of them? Was any restriction placed on the use or distribution of information contained in those files? Does any privilege of Parliament still attach to those files, as they were tabled in this Parliament? Finally, have all - I emphasise the word 'all' - the complete files been returned to ASIO and have the seals been lifted on the filing cabinets that were sealed during the raid? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. If he is not now in possession of the facts, will the Minister take early action to inform the Senate in respect of the possibility of a naval supply vessel being sent to the French nuclear explosion test area? Will it be manned by a volunteer or conscripted crew? Will any danger ensue to all or any member of the crew? If the ship is contaminated, how and how completely and when will the ship be able to be classified as clean'? Will the absence from Australian waters of one of our supply vessels interfere with any active or training program of Her Majesty's Royal Australian Navy? 
 On behalf of the Opposition I say that we are not going to oppose this motion. I think it could be termed a ruthless use of numbers against something which is obvious Government policy. But I place on record my disapproval of what I see as the intent in this rather cunningly devised amendment in this particular case. The Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, as I said earlier, was conceived and formed as a Senate committee. The Senate finally gave in to the then Government's request that members from another place be included. Because the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory was in opposition, we always gave him the job of  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee. But the Senate had the numbers and an honourable senator from the Government side was  chairman.  A couple of days ago we agreed to a motion for re-constituting this Committee. The number of members from the other place is now more than the number from the Senate. But we were asked to approve that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  appoint the  chairman  from Government members. We deleted that paragraph and the Senate agreed that the resolution should provide that the  chairman  be appointed from senators nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In other words, the Senate took the view that we had given way to the other place on the numbers but we were not going to give way in relation to the chairmanship of the Committee. We agreed that that position should rest in the Senate for the benefit of the people of the Australian Capital Territory as well as for the stature of the Senate. I believe that this Committee is much better controlled and organised in the Senate for and on behalf of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. 
Although I will be privileged to be a member of the Committee I honestly believe that if the Senate loses control of this Committee it will be to the detriment of the people of the Australian Capital Territory. The grapevine tells me that a very good senator in  Senator Milliner  is to be the chosen  chairman  of the Committee or that his name will be submitted to the Committee. So we start off, we hope, with a senator in control of the Committee. But the motion to which we are agreeing permits the Government to say: 'We want a senator out. We want our man from the House of Representatives in.' If honourable senators from the Government side give in, then another point will be lost to the Senate. I do not want to be provocative on this, but only last night we heard the Prime Minister - if I heard him properly in the noise during his speech - say to members of the New Zealand delegation who were our guests that they had an admirable form of democratic government in that they had only one House of Parliament. 
That, coming from the Prime Minister in the precincts of this Parliament and in front of guests of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, means that the Prime Minister is out to get rid of the Senate. One of the first 2 moves he will make is to denigrate the Senate whenever and wherever he can. Secondly, he will take from the Senate the powers and stature which it has. If we are going to have 26 honourable senators on the Government side who act spinelessly and let the Prime Minister get away with his, why are they not upstanding in the Senate to say: 'Let us vote ourselves out of office.' I give honourable senators a warning that this is a cunningly devised message. I am protesting at least on my own behalf very sincerely, but I have the authority to say that we will agree to this motion at this time because, in this instance, the Government should be able to put its policy into operation. But if honourable senators have any desire for the Senate to be retained let them not say that they have not been warned. I hope that the Committee as it will be constituted will be as successful as it has been in the past. In conclusion I say that I am confident that when the LiberalCountry Party coalition is returned to Government in about 18 months or. at the latest in 2 years the Australian Capital Territory Committee will come back to its former greater glory. 
Will the AttorneyGeneral, if possible prior to his imminent departure from Australia, or one of his advisers give attention to Senate Hansard of Thursday, 3rd May at page 1276 and to the questions therein set out which I put to him concerning his visit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation headquarters in Melbourne? Having given attention to those questions will he provide the Senate with an answer to them, as they are of interest and do not deserve the treatment which they received last Thursday? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation institute inquiries so that he can inform the Senate as soon as is reasonably possible of the fees and allowances being paid to the  chairman, deputy chairman  and members of the committee set up by the Australian Government and known as the Lake Pedder Committee of Inquiry? What staff and how many staff does the Committee employ? What office accommodation does it use? When is its report expected to be, given to the Minister, and will the contents of that report be made available to the Premier of Tasmania who is opposed to the inquiry? 
My question, which is addressed to the Attorney-General, is supplementary to question No. 266 on the Senate notice paper asked by my colleague,  Senator Carrick.  The subject matter df that question was the basis for another question asked by  Senator Carrick  of the Attorney-General this morning. Will the Attorney-General agree that he and the Australian Government have possibly made a very grave error of judgment in that he has got the Government to agree that Australia should make an approach to the International Court of Justice at The Hague concerning nuclear testing when, on his own admission, the Attorney-General - the chief law officer of Australia - is unable to say whether the Government accepts the jurisdiction of the Court, whether it will be bound by the Court's decision and whether it accepts the other aspects which were put to the 
Attorney-General by  Senator Carrick?  Would the Attorney-General agree with me that surely the nation wants to know whether the Government agrees with the powers of the Court before it makes an application to the Court? 
My question is directed to  Senator Willesee  in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs and relates to one of the reasons for the absence overseas of the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Australian Government made any protest to the Chinese Government about that country's nuclear atmospheric testing? If so, was the protest a verbal or written protest? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property obtain for the Senate a statement detailing the areas of office accommodation leased for Commonwealth ministries, departments and/ or instrumentalities in the Australia Square building in Sydney and indicate the length of the leases listed and the annual rate of rental agreed for each lease? Is it a fact that nearby, newer and more prestigious office space is available at a rate which is at least 12i per cent lower than the lowest rate charged in the Australia Square building? My authority for asking that question is the statement by a spokesman for the Australia Square building reported in today's 'Australian'. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, is supplementary to the question asked earlier concerning HMAS Supply'. Did I understand the Minister to say that HMAS 'Supply' is being adapted in preparation to go to the atomospheric test area. Does this mean that special work is being done on the ship which is in addition to any normal refit or running repairs which the ship would undergo? If so, when will it be known what will be the cost of the adaptation of this ship which is to be sent? Will the Minister try to supply me with an answer to a question I asked earlier on this subject as to whether, if HMAS 'Supply' is to be sent to the area, it will have a volunteer or conscripted crew, and what arrangements are being made to ensure the safety of the crew and the ship from contamination? 
My question without notice is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. What will be the cruising range of HMAS 'Sydney' if and when it acts as refuelling vessel for the RNZ Navy ship which is to visit the French nuclear atmospheric test site in the Pacific Ocean? What will be 'Sydney's' nearest refuelling port? What fear will there be for the ship's company and/or the ship becoming contaminated with nuclear fallout if it refuels the RNZ Navy ship after that vessel returns from the test site, if there has been a nuclear explosion? What facilities, already tested, will there be on board 'Sydney' to ensure complete decontamination of personnel and the ship, if required, prior to its return to Australian ports? Will the Australian Government be responsible for all personnel on board HMAS 'Sydney'? The. latter question is asked because the Pome Minister has emphasised that all personnel on 'Sydney' will be volunteers. 
My question is addressed to the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate as Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Minister aware that I was officially informed yesterday that no decision has yet been made as to the fees payable to members of the committee of inquiry into Lake Pedder, which has been operating for some weeks? Will the Minister provide to the Senate a statement settingout details of any official advisers and/ or committees appointed by this Australian Government for whom fees and allowances have not yet been decided? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. As the Minister for the Environment and Conservation has officially advised me that no decision has yet been made as to the fees to be paid to the members of the committee of inquiry into Lake Pedder, whose report is expected to be available at the end of July, can the Minister advise me on what principles this open-ended contract for services will be decided? Will fees be based on the length, quality or political philosophy of the report, or on the academic or professional standing of the members of the committee? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and it concerns telephone tapping. Owing to his absence abroad the Attorney may not know that telephone tapping has been given great prominence by the ever popular 'Four Corners' program of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, which has said that it will continue to give prominence to this facet of Australian life. ls the Attorney-General able and willing to inform the Senate whether, once an authorised person has been authorised to tap a telephone, there is any limit on how long that authorised person can tap the telephone concerned? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence, particularly in respect of his administration of the use of VIP aircraft. Is it not a fact that it has been decided by the Government that VIP aircraft are not suitable for long overseas journeys by Cabinet Ministers? Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence is to leave Australia shortly for Europe and places in between and round about? Is it a fact that the Minister for Defence will be travelling in a BAC-III aircraft? Does this indicate that the Minister for Defence, the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia, is rated as less than the VIP with the Mercedes-Benz? Will the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence at some time before the Senate rises indicate who will be the passengers in the aircraft taking the Deputy Prime Minister overseas later in June? 
I address my question to the Minister assisting the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs. Is it true that the Australian Government has become one of the last of the big time spenders in real estate in New York as reported in the Melbourne 'Herald' of Wednesday, 30 May? If so, why and when were the leases of luxury space approved for the Australian mission to the United Nations? As it is reported that Australian and French government officials will be moving into the same building at approximately the same time, I ask whether  Senator Murphy,  the Attorney-General, took any part in negotiations with the. French Government during his recent visits to Europe? 
The subject of voting rights may not have anything to do with this Bill, but I think the public of Australia, particularly the British people in Australia who hitherto have had certain privileges, ought to be alerted to the fact that if this Bill ever becomes law, unless someone makes very strong action against the present anti-British Government, British people in Australia will not have the right to vote for at least 3 years. That is the point which in my belief was raised by  Senator Greenwood's  wise interception. The public should know what is happening. 
My question is addressed to whoever represents the Minister representing the Acting Prime Minister representing the Prime Minister. Will the Minister prepare a statement for the Senate setting out the names of professors and/ or staff members of Australian universities who are under appointment to fulltime temporary positions either as ministerial advisers or to Government commissions and committees, and indicating if their positions at the relevant universities are filled during their Government appointments? Can it also be indicated which ones are on sabbatical or any other type of leave during their appointments? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who, I am sure, has noticed the Press report of a television interview with our Prime Minister in India. Is it a normal or wise practice for the promoter of a competition for which a valuable prize has been offered: (a) to travel overseas and there make known the possible winner of the competition; (jb) to have access to the suggestions made concerning what entry should win the competition; and (c) to have his wife concurrently opting for another entrant as the ultimate winner? Have the rules for his competition been properly drawn so that, if a very old song is elevated to be this young nation's national anthem, it is abundantly clear to whom the prize money will be paid? 
 Order! The time allotted for all stages of the Bills having expired, I put the question that the Bills be agreed to. 
My question - it is a good one - is addressed to the Acting Minister for Labour. Did the Minister, on the very popular Australian Broadcasting Commission radio session 'A.M.' this morning, criticise the Opposition Parties in the Senate for not permitting the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill 1973 to go into Committee for detailed discussion and decision? Does the Minister agree on reflection that in making this criticism, he did not display his normal characteristic fairness, in view of the fact that his Government allowed only 3 hours, and perhaps 8 minutes, for the entire debate on this lengthy, comprehensive and important industrial legislation - a fact perhaps not known to his great crowd of unseen but interested listeners? 
 The Liberal Party will not oppose this measure. It will be recalled that one of the early actions of the committee of two that ruled Australia after the election on 2 December last was to take administrative action to cancel all forms of national service. It is recognised by the public of Australia that abolition of national service is a definite plank of the Australian Labor Party's policy. All the Bill which is before the Senate tonight seeks to do is to complete the administrative action that was taken. It is my view that the Senate cannot undo that which was done on 5 December. As a result of that action there is no national service. It is my view also that it is of no value to the Senate or to the nation to have an Act of Parliament on the statute book which cannot be put into operation. That is the reason the Liberal Party Opposition does not oppose the Bill. We realise that the action has been taken. It was definite action. Therefore we do not oppose the repeal of the Act. I do not propose at this time to enter into a discussion, as I possibly could under the terms of this Bill, of the somewhat tattered policy of the Australian Labor Party in relation to the defence of Australia. So I leave the matter by stating our lack of opposition to the Bill. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate agree with the forecast contained in the leading article in  Mr Rupert  Murdoch's newspaper the 'Australian 'of 20 August which stated that it may be proved that the Labor Government's biggest blunder since coming into office was the recent television appearance of the Prime Minister when he was interviewed by  Mr Frost? 
Was the Minister for the Media correctly reported in the 'Australian' of 8 August as promising that the Federal Government would pay the cost of action by Greater Union Theatres in Brisbane to fight a court case to overcome a ban on the screening of the film 'Oh! Calcutta'? If so, what governmental precedents was he following? What are the reasons for using taxpayers money to fight a State government and to aid a powerful picture theatre combine to screen a film of somewhat doubtful decency? 
It may be one of the disadvantages of an Address-in-Reply debate that it is not a coherent debate on any particular subject. I am not going to continue along the lines  of  my colleague from Tasmania,  Senator Wright,  but that must not be taken as indicating any lack of support or interest in what he said. However, I do not like and I do not encourage repetition. All I want to say in that respect is that I hope that the Minister for Primary Industry,  Senator Wriedt,  a fellow Tasmanian, will look thoroughly into the grave situation that this aspect of Budget policy has forced upon the apple growers of Tasmania. The longer one is privileged to be a member of the Senate the more first occasions one must celebrate and tonight, well into my 21st year and participation in my 21st AddressinReply debate- 
That is not what the electors of Tasmania think. This is the first time that the Senate has been so mismanaged that in the beginning of the second sessional period we are still debating what should have been a continuing debate from the opening day of this Parliament. Traditionally speaking, we have insulted Her Majesty the Queen and we have breached the traditions of this Parliament. However, not all that has happened in this House - 
Pardon me, I am making the speech. Not all that has happened in this House even under this Government is bad, and I should like to place on record an event which took place yesterday in the quadrangle of Parliament House and which pleased me greatly. Seventy American school children who for the last 10 or 12 weeks had visited schools throughout Australia under  the  auspices of the American field service scholarship scheme, which is promoted very largely by the Australian-American Association, visited this national capital as part of their final tour towards Sydney from where they will depart tomorrow for their own country. I am an executive of the American field service scholarship scheme in Australia and I was privileged to obtain the Government's authority for the Government to entertain  these  young people to morning tea. The great privilege which they were granted - this really pleased me - was that you,  Mr President,  and your Presiding Officer colleague,  Mr Cope,  both of you busy men, were waiting in the quadrangle when they arrived. You mixed with them and you talked to them. I spoke with them afterwards, and they said they were very thrilled and honoured that they had been accorded this distinction in Parliament House. They all assured me that they had had a remarkably good time in Australia and many of them want to return in later years. They will be good ambassadors for AustralianAmerican relations when they return to their homeland. 
When making up my mind this morning about the subject on which I would address the Senate during this Address-in-Reply debate, I decided that I would not at this late stage speak in retrospect of the last session, firstly, because it would have been old hat and, secondly, by referring to a debate in the same session of Parliament I would probably breach Standing Orders. I certainly will not indulge in a debate on any aspect of the Budget because at present - I do not think it will last for more than 72 hours - members of the Government and their supporters and some of their friends in the media are still in a state of euphoria, believing that they really did something good by the Budget. They think they have changed the face of Australia. I think that the Budget will change the position of the Australian Labor Party in government in Australia. However, we shall have plenty of time and plenty of legislation to afford us an opportunity to discuss this aspect of Parliament. I believe,  Mr President  - this is no fault of yours - that since the new Government took office this Senate has been very badly managed; in fact it has been mismanaged. Permit me to cite quickly 3 examples. Firstly, several months elapsed before we formed the Standing Orders Committee which you,  Mr President,  so wanted to be operating. Secondly, the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Australian Capital Territory, which to my knowledge has continued since it was first set up at the instigation of a former senator, Professor McCallum, did not commence operations. Previously this Committee came into operation at the beginning of each Parliament; even on the celebrated one day meeting of Parliament on 19 November 1969 the Parliament found time to resurrect it. But this Government took some months to get the 
Committee operating again. We still have on the notice paper a resolution to appoint a similar committee for the Northern Territory but the Government did not find time in the last session for a debate and a decision on what would be important legislation for the people of the Territory. Those are only 3 examples which very clearly indicate the mismanagement by the Government of the business of the Senate. We all know that day after day in the last sessional period we came into the chamber and neither we nor the Government knew what was to happen. As a result there was frustration and the use of the guillotine at the end of the last session. 
I am amazed that the Government and its spokesmen have been boasting about the large number of Bills they introduced. They say: We had 110 Bills brought to the Senate in the last session which was more than the number introduced in a comparable period by the previous Government'. I do not believe, and I am certain the people do not believe, that a government shows its mettle and efficiency by boasting about the large number of pieces of legislation it brings in to control, tax and frustrate the taxpayers of this country. If we could finish a session of Parliament and boast that we had only about 8 new Acts of Parliament with which to worry and confuse the people, we would be a more popular Parliament than we are today, and let none of us think that the national Parliament has much popularity among the people of Australia today. Speaking of popularity, I do not believe that the Senate has found its right place or reputation in the minds of the people of Australia. Some of this may be, and possibly is ,the fault of we senators. But I believe a lot of the fault lies with the media, for traditionally the media has placed the emphasis for news on the House of Representatives, which is the House of Government and the House which initiates most legislation. Many media commentators have decided either not to publish any news or information about the Senate or to rubbish the Senate and to speak of it as a rubber stamp. The extraordinary fact is that immediately the Senate - it has been like this for some years because the Government of the day does not have a commanding majority in the Senate - has amended, held up of defeated legislation, some among the news media, and always the Government, whichever party is in power, say that the Senate is frustrating, mischievous and interfering. But I believe that the Senate in all cases, no matter which party was in power, was doing its job as the elected senators thought it should. 
One very good illustration, I think, of the lack of treatment of the Senate by the media occurred at the end of the last session. On, I think, 8 June the Leader of the Opposition,  Senator Withers,  prepared a Press statement which I believe spelled out very well the role of the Senate and showed that it had acted sensibly and reasonably and had accomplished a great deal in the time at its disposal. I do not believe that a major part of that Press statement appeared in any newspaper in Australia. I searched a few newpapers for it but did not see it. It is quite a shame that this aspect of the Senate is not put to the people. For instance, in the sessional period under review it is true that the Government produced to the Senate a total of 110 Bills of which the Senate decided to defer the final decision on three. I am citing these figures from the statement of  Senator Withers.  The Senate rejected 4 Bills and amended eight. 
In a similar period when the previous Government was in power, but without a majority in the Senate, in 1972 the Senate dealt with 65 Bills of which it amended 6 and the Opposition coerced or encouraged the Government to withdraw one. This indicates that when either major party or a coalition has been in power without a majority in this chamber the Senate has not in reality acted mischievously or to frustrate the government. Senators - and in each case I have referred particularly to the Opposition senators - have been frustrated by a great overload of work towards the closing stages of each sessional period. I think my memory is correct that the debate on 19 measures was guillotined in the last sessional period. Some of the most important Bills presented to this Parliament were debated in this chamber for between 1 hour and 2 hours. At page 2475 of Hansard of 1 June of a certain year, to be divulged later, the following appears: 
Sometime the lesson will be learned by the Government that measures of a major nature ought to be brought in well before the end of the sessional period. If this lesson is not brought home in any way it will have to be brought home by consideration of the matters remaining on the notice paper at the end of the sessional period being deferred. Bills ought to bc introduced in ample time for them to receive a reasonable consideration. The Senate is not being treated as it ought to be treated, and I ask the Senate to agree to the proposition that we stand these matters over to the first day of the next period of sittings. 
That was said by the current Leader of the Government in the Senate when he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate on 1 June 1972. 
Yes. Unless a new look is taken at the management of the Senate and of legislation in the national Parliament every Leader of the Opposition worthy of his Opposition will be threatening and possibly taking the action that  Senator Murphy  urged us to take in June 1972. The main delay to legislation is caused by the House of Representatives, partly added to by the custom of initiating the majority of Bills in that House, and by the fact that the government of the day always has a majority and is able to rush legislation through by guillotining measures or by making members sit into all hours of the night. I believe that that was not done in the autumn session this year, but still the rush came on. So the Government's legislation starts to mount tip here and that is why we are dealing with the Address-in-Reply debate tonight, 6 months after it started, because it was broken into and had to give way to get legislation through. This will continue to happen and we will have the same frustration and the same anguish unless we take a look at the facts of political life as they are in the Senate in 1973. 
I would go so far as to say that a seminar ought to be held of interested senators of all parties over the weekend to thrash out ideas on how the Senate should have a new look at its treatment of legislation. It should not be done when the Senate is in session, when Standing Orders have to be obeyed and votes taken. It should be done by informal discussion, perhaps in groups taking various aspects. The groups could then report to the Government which would decide what it would like to suggest to the Parliament. I do not think we will do it by senators rising in the AddressinReply Debate and taking certain points. I believe that the time is past when something has to be done. 
I refer, for instance, to second reading debates in the Senate as it is now constituted. In my estimation on every Bill there have to be at least 8 speakers in a second reading debate. This is because the Senate consists of 4 groups and the Government. Custom, tradition, the thoughts of men and women are such that a Bill is introduced, the Minister makes a second reading speech and when thi debate is resumed the Opposition, the Country Party, the Democratic Labor Party and the independent group each have the right to have at least one of their senators speak. This is true of each measure. Every three or four speakers possibly but not always necessarily are against the measure or against the Government. It is then necessary to interweave a government supporter between each group, it is necessary to have a closing speech in reply by a Minister so that for every important Bill 8 speeches are made. 

 Mr Daly, the Minister for Services and Property, has informed the Australian public that about 200 Bills will be introduced between now and Christmas. Some will be the subject of cognate debates, but each Bill must be dealt with in Committee and the procedures of handing over and passing motions and debates all take time. We therefore have reached the stage where there is not time for Parliament to do its business and anything else in the time that it can sit. In this situation is must be remembered that we are now overloaded with valuable committees. In my view we have out-committeed ourselves and we have to look at that. Party meetings have to be rushed. People cannot attend one committee meeting because they must be at another. All these problems are upon us and will get worse as we proceed in this session. 
We are sticking to the fact that in an Address-in-Reply debate we can take over  H  hours each. For other Bills we can talk for over an hour. So that as many senators as possible can speak to listeners when we are on the air on Wednesdays we allow ourselves half an hour each. I believe in freedom of speech in the Parliament and the rights of senators to speak, but I believe the stage has been reached at which we must cut ourselves down in time but not in numbers. I believe that in the Senate no speech should be allowed for more than half an hour without special leave of the Senate - and I would begrudge the granting of that leave. I believe that when the Senate is on the air, in order to get through the business and for the sake of listeners no speech should be longer than a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes. Then I believe that we could really improve the business of the Senate. There would be full and adequate discussion. There would be time for committees to go on doing the work for which they have been established. Unless the Governments takes a lead in this no improvement will come. Honourable senators say to me: 'You were in office for 23 years and you did not alter anything'. I admit that they are right. We did nothing. 
One of the problems of government is that once a government gets in it thinks: 'We will ride roughshod over the Opposition whatever happens so do not alter the system'. Last year when we wanted to alter the system a little - we were in government - honourable senators who were then in Opposition would not listen to the suggestion of shortening the time of speeches or cutting down debates. They insisted on their rights. We had arguments from certain honourable senators whom I will not name now because I am not being provocative. I am trying to be constructive and helpful. But many honourable senators from the Australian Labor Party felt that the slightest alteration to the Standing Orders was taking away their rights. If 2 of the Estimates Committees sat at the same time the attitude of some honourable senators was: 'We will not have a bar of it'. Not one of those honourable senators came to an Estimates Committee hearing because they were not interested. But these are the problems which are facing this Senate. My Tasmanian colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt),  is taking all this in. Hansard is printed and there are the' public servants and the army of advisers. Surely we can get something good out of the advisers. We do not want all these search and destroy combinations going around. I suggest that the Government find some of the academic advisers and get together with them to see what they can produce to help Parliament conduct its business in a better way. 
Just in case the Opposition thinks that because I am not criticising aspects of policy I have gone all calm and that I am satisfied with the present Government I will let honourable senators know by way of conclusion, that I am very worried about many aspects of government. I hope that soon  Senator Wriedt  will be able to let the farmers of south-eastern Tasmania have something definite and helpful in relation to the 1967 fire loans, the interest and the problems associated with that matter. On several occasions we thought the Government had made a decision or was nearing a decision, but my latest information from the division is that nothing has been granted. As the Minister knows full well this same area has been subject to a very bad drought. Our shipping situation is terrible. Do not lose any sleep over the idea that the Sim to the 'Empress of Australia' will be any great help. It may save the fares going up a lot but it will not get the 'Empress of Australia' running satisfactorily. It will do nothing for the 'Australian Trader'. I believe that our shipping situation is chaotic. It will be chaotic until strong action is taken by government or by courts against the waterside workers, the ship unions and those who run the ships. I do not believe that the Australian National Line is run well. I believe that it is run shockingly. I have always said that and I still believe it. 
I shall briefly refer to the situation in Canberra, which has not an elected representative in this chamber. I believe that the situation in the Australian Capital Territory today for the people is worse than it has ever been. Treatment by government has never been very good. The facilities for the people arc good but the control of Canberra by government has been so fragmented under the new administration that the people are confused and confounded. They have the great handicap that their own honourable member who should be fighting for them is the Minister who has some control over some aspects of their lives in Canberra. But naturally because of Cabinet responsibility he is too timid and too handicapped to take action for the people who put him in with a record vote. He probably did not beat the late Jim Fraser in the number of votes he received but he probably got near a record vote. The people of Canberra put him in but he cannot fight for them because other Cabinet colleagues are controlling many aspects of this city. This is a matter which has to be dealt with. I believe that the Parliamentary Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory will do something to help the people but the Government needs to wake up to the fact that it is not giving the people of the Territory a fair go. 
The only other criticism at this stage about the Government is that I believe it has declared war on the people of Australia. I mean that. I believe that there are Ministers who have not vested interests but doctrinaire dislikes of elements in our community. They are using their ministerial power and authority to declare war on the people. We have one Minister referring to the 'fat cats' of the Public Service. These people whom he is gratuitously insulting are the people who advise him. I think it is terrible when we have Ministers saying things like that. There are plenty of other illustrations. The hillbillies of the mining community, as they were called, are attacked. There are others. Honourable senators know them. I know that in the Labor Party the backbenchers and honourable senators like  Senator Wriedt  regret this. But something must be done to stop the national Government declaring war on segments of the population. I will say more about that at the suitable time when the Budget debate is taking place. 
One has only to move around the States or to write or telephone people in the State governments - Liberal, Labor or Country Party - to learn that they fear what is going to be said about them or what will happen to them next. Enough was said about foreign affairs last night. Our friends have been insulted, our acquaintances have been ignored and our enemies have been crawled to. That is the problem of having a Prime Minister who is also Minister for Foreign Affairs. He may be fit to be Prime Minister but he is certainly not fit to carry the 2 highly important offices. Foreign Affairs is a portfolio which needs a level-headed, dedicated person with plenty of time to study all aspects before he opens his mouth. These are the things which are worrying Australia today. I hope that this AddressinReply will soon be agreed to and presented in the normal, traditional way to  His Excellency  the Governor-General and passed to  Her  Gracious Majesty the Queen. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and it may interest him as Minister for the Media. In view of the Minister's assurance to the Senate this afternoon that the Minister for Social Security is working on a detailed plan to place before Caucus and Cabinet in respect to a national health scheme, can the Minister state under what authority or precedent the Government is currently spending an amount said to be $250,000 on a national health scheme publicity campaign? Can he inform the Senate the name of the advertising firm which is carrying out this Press, radio and television campaign? Were tenders called to decide which firm would obtain this lucrative contract? Was it the firm that conducted the It's Time' campaign for the Australian Labor Party? If so, I believe it's time is up. 
Order! The honourable senator is not addressing himself to the issue before the Committee. The honourable senator should be addressing himself to  Senator Jessop's  amendment and he is not in order in referring to a previous debate. 
If we had any regard in this Parliament for these institutions we would provide millions of dollars for the  reform  of the prisons which we have. Instead there is mental stress on the prisoners whom we confine for various reasons. 
Then he added: 
But that is another subject. 
I should simply like to indicate that, whilst 1 oppose the death penalty and support the Death Penalty Abolition Bill and intend to vote against the amendment that has been moved by  Senator Jessop,  I believe that there is a very strong case for considering the point in relation to this matter that was raised by  Senator Webster  and other honourable senators. We have the situation where one of the common arguments against the abolition of the death penalty is that if it is abolished criminals who have committed crimes for which the death penalty might be appropriate will in due course be let out of goal. 
 My speech on the motion for the third reading of this Bill will not take long. I want to speak for 2 reasons. The first is that ever since the first measure of this nature was introduced in 1968 until the last vote which has been taken, I have voted in accordance with my conscience which is very clear. I believe that the statutes of the Australian Government should continue to contain the ultimate penalty of death by hanging for certain crimes.I have voted in that way on all occasions. However, in all the many hundreds of thousands of words that have been uttered on this subject I have not taken part in the debate except perhaps by way of friendly and helpful interjection. This evening my colleague  Senator Wright  reminded the Senate that we were discussing a Bill and that people in years to come will look back on the record and judge whether we were right or wrong. Many honourable senators on this side of the chamber would forecast that those people would decide that the Senate was taking the wrong attitude and was making the wrong decision. I do not want people to be able to prove that I was one of the few who consistently voted from one point of view and was not man enough to stand in my place and briefly state my reasons. I believe that the death penalty should be maintained. I believe it is some deterrent; how great no one can imagine.I believe that if, as a deterrent, it saves one human life, one innocent person from being murdered, it is well worth having on the statute book. I am a great believer in human life, but first and foremost the innocent person has priority. As we went through amendment after amendment tonight, I was nearly moved to speak but I wanted to say something beyond the terms of the amendments before the Committee and did not want to contravene Standing Orders. That is why I have taken the opportunity to speak to the motion for the third reading. 
It is interesting to note, if one examines the Hansard report of this debate, that each time an amendment was moved the proposer or supporter indicated that that particular amendment at any rate should be passed as it dealt with the most important aspects of the law for which the penalty of death by hanging should be maintained. My colleague the learned  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Greenwood)  in referring to the last amendment which related to murders for political rights or reasons, said that those things were important. I do not think that murders for those reasons are any more important than murders because of jealousy, murders as the result of provocation and murders for religious reasons. Any murder of an innocent person is a terrible crime, and I do not believe that we should classify it because to the innocent murdered person death is final and I believe that punishment for the guilty should be final also. 
I do not reflect upon the vote of the Senate but I want to close my speech by saying very sincerely that when the Senate decided by vote not to maintain in our statutes the ultimate punishment of death by hanging for treason, I mentally threw the towel in. I said that this Senate, while it is so constituted, will never agree for any aspect of hanging to be maintained in the laws covered by this Parliament. If it really is the view of the Australian people that anyone who commits treason should not be hanged, the Australian people must believe that no person should be hanged for any crime. In my view, if the act of treason which so easily can cause the death of thousands - it can cause the fall of a nation - is not punishable by death by hanging, and if the Australian people share the belief of the vote of the Senate in that respect, they do not want death by hanging in their statutes. I oppose the motion for the third reading of the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the greatly decreased use of our defence forces' aircraft, ships and modern equipment with the resulting increase in the use of moth balls and the general trimming of defence man power, has the Government yet given consideration to ordering a heavy cut in the advertising campaign that is still being conducted through the media for recruits to the 3 Services, as it would seem that the recruiting rate would not now be required at the former level? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media who, I quite understand, did not have available yesterday certain information which I had sought from him. I ask the Minister: Will he inform the Senate as soon as he is able to do so the name of the advertising firm currently masterminding the Australian Government's proposed new health scheme publicity campaign? Further, can he state why Specialty Press in 
Melbourne and not the Australian Government Printer produced the booklet 'The Australian Health Program'? Were tenders called for this major printing contract? 
I understand that the Minister for the Media has been good enough to obtain information in reply to questions which I asked him concerning the publicity campaign being conducted for the proposed new health scheme. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware that the Tasmanian Government has taken action to set up a microfilm service to record and store records and films of government departments and that it is confident that many benefits such as the saving of storage space will accrue? Is the Attorney-General aware that many companies desire to be permitted to microfilm the records and documents that they are required to hold for a number of years, particularly for Taxation Office requirements? Is any action being taken in his Department to introduce any legislation to ensure that microfilm copies of company records will be accepted as legal evidence of the information contained in the original documents? 
Is leave granted for  Senator Murphy  to move all of the amendments at the one time? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
Clause 5. 
Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting sub-section (3) and substituting the following sub-section: "(3) Where- 
a person has been convicted in his absence of an offence against the law of, or of a part of, a foreign state; and 
b ) the conviction is not a final conviction, then, for the purposes of this Act, the person shall be deemed not to have been convicted of that offence but shall be deemed to be accused of that offence. "; and 
) by adding at the end thereof the following sub-sections: "(7) For the purposes of this Act, the territorial sea of, and the airspace over, a foreign state shall, unless the contrary intention appears, be deemed to be within the jurisdiction of that foreign state. 
Clause 10. 
Section 1 6 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-section (1) the words 'there is produced to the Magistrate such evidence' and substituting the words 'such information is given, or such evidence is produced, to the Magistrate'; 
by omitting from sub-section (3 ) the words 'and the evidence produced to him on the application for the warrant'; 
by inserting after sub-section (3) the following subsection: "(3a) A report under sub-section (3) shall- 
set out any information given to the Magistrate on the application for the warrant; and 
if any evidence was produced to the Magistrate on that application- be accompanied by that evidence. "; and 
by omitting from paragraph (a) of sub-section (5) the words "and the evidence as provided by the last two proceeding sub-sections ". 
Clause 12. 
Section 18 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting subsection (5 ) and substituting the following sub-sections: "(5 ) Any article, including a sum of money, that may be material as evidence in proving the offence to which the requisition for the surrender of the prisoner relates or that has been acquired by the prisoner directly or indirectly as a result of the offence shall, if the Attorney-General so directs, be delivered up with the prisoner on his surrender. 
Clause 13. 
After section 1 8 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: "(2) Where a person is being held in custody in pursuance of a warrant by a Magistrate under paragraph (b) of sub-section ( 1), the Attorney-General may, if he thinks fit, by order in writing, direct that the person be released. ". 
Clause 2 1 . 
The First Schedule to the Principal Act is repealed and the following Schedule substituted: 
The unlawful seizure, or unlawful exercise of control, of a ship or aircraft, by force or threat of force or by any other form of intimidation. 
I move: 
In clause5, at end of paragraph (c) leave out 'and '. 
In clause5, before paragraph (d), insert the following paragraph. "(ca) by inserting after sub-section (5) the following subsection: (5a) On and after the day on which the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation (being the Convention referred to in the Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1 973 ) enters into force for Australia, an offence against a law of, or of a pan of, a foreign state that is bound by that Convention, being an offence constituted by an act, including an act taking place in Australia, that is of a kind referred to in item 32a or item 34 in Schedule 1 and over which the foreign state is required by paragraph 1 of Article 5 of that Convention to establish its jurisdiction, shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be an extradition crime and to have been committed within the jurisdiction of the foreign state. '; and ' '. 
That the following new clause be inserted in the Bill: 9a. Section 14 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting the words "the Attorney-General has" and substituting the words " there are ". '. 
Leave out clause 10. 
In clause 12, in proposed new sub-section (5) leave out the words ' directly or indirectly '. 
In clause 13, in proposed new Section 18Asub-section(2) after 'sub-section ( 1 ) ', insert ' and his transportation is not continued within such time as is reasonable having regard to all the circumstances '. 
In clause 21, after item 32 in proposed Schedule 1, insert the following item: - 32a. An unlawful act of any of the kinds specified in paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation (being the Convention referred to in the Crimes (Protection of Aircraft) Act 1973).'. 
My question is directed to my Tasmanian colleague, the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the many sided and regrettably long drawn out representations to both the Australian and Tasmanian Governments on behalf of drought stricken farmers in south east Tasmania which have not reached finality, can he, for the benefit of those suffering financial hardship make now or in the near future a statement defining what prospects there are that the Federal Government will assist by releasing the farmers from the burden of the 1967 bushfire loan repayments or by providing a subsidy for the many thousands of tons of stock  feed wheat which it has been necessary for them to purchase during the current winter or by taking both these measures. 
-I do not place so much importance on the actual date for the Estimates Committees to report to the Senate, 15 November, as my colleague  Senator Wright  does because the Senate is the master of its own destiny. If 1 5 November appeared on the horizon and the hearings of the Estimates Committee were not finished, we would move the date back. But I go along with his cry for a businesslike decision and some purposeful result. 
The Parliament has been in session for 3 weeks now. The Government has known that the Estimates Committees have to meet. It was the great supporter of them, and honourable senators on this side of the Senate went along with them. I have no inside information. I speak with complete innocence of what is going on in the background. But I do know what is happening in the foreground The Government knows that the Estimates Committees have to sit. The Estimates have to be passed, refused or requests made in respect of them. That is as plain as night follows day. 
Honourable senators opposite comprise the Government. This week the Government sent around to each senator a list of suggested meeting times for the Estimates Committees. I see a head being shaken, but I read the list. I was given one. I presume that it emanated from the Government. If so, the Government should be firm. Are we having this governmental decision overriden because of some meeting of the Caucus or for some other reason? I go along with  Senator Wright.  Let us meet on Mondays or Fridays or on both days. We are paid full-time salaries to do a full-time job in the Parliament. At the present time we are overridden with committees. But over and above everything, as far as committee work is concerned, the Estimates Committees must have precedence. Regardless of anyone in the Parliament, I will support the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  any time he moves a motion calling for 1, 2 or 3 Estimates Committees to meet on any day of the week barring Saturday or Sunday. I hope that he will show firmness of decision and leadership on a matter that is of the utmost importance and stop letting the Senate make a fool of itself. 
-In rising to oppose the Bill before the Senate I find that there is only one really potent point to answer in the speech of the Minister for the Mediocre. I am referring, of course, to  Senator Douglas  McClelland. He has been critical of this Opposition for taking a stance in opposition to the measure introduced by the Government. He tried to interpret the Constitution as saying that the Government or the Opposition or a senator or a member can put to the people a question to be decided by referendum; whereas the Constitution lays down that the Parliament will decide whether and what questions are to be put to the people, and this is precisely what is happening in this national Parliament this week. This measure has been debated in another place and those who have the same political allegiance as I have have shown cause why they oppose the measure, why in effect they are saying that this question should not be sent on to the people for decision. 
We say that this Parliament can make a decision on this and that the wise decision on behalf of the people is or should be that the question should not be decided by the people. 
No one will argue with anybody in Australia on the point that inflation is a national problem of great importance. What the Australian people regret is that this factor was not recognised by the new Government when it came into office in all its glory and newness after the dictatorship in the early part of December. What happened was that the new chum Government went around the country not only promising but also undertaking the expenditure of many millions of dollars. On 2 1 August last it came to us with a Budget. When it was so obvious that the flames of inflation were being fanned, it came along with an inflationary Budget. It must be admitted in all fairness, that some anti-inflationary fiscal policy was undertaken by the Government in the hope, we presume, that it would dampen down the flames of inflation. But unfortunately, the continuing policy of the Government of bolstering expenditure in the public sector has overcome the remedial action that the Government has taken. 
So the Labor Caucus, worried about the electoral prospects in the forthcoming Parramatta by-election and about the fact that the Labor Party will not have the nerve to go for a double dissolution, says to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam):  'You will go to the country on a referendum to control prices'. The Prime Minister realised that it might be a runner to ask the people for power to control prices, costs, charges and wages.  Mr Hawke,  whether as  President  of the Australian Labor Party or as  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions or as a tycoon of the Reserve Bank Board- I know notindicated that the private conversations already exposed to the public were not a true interpretation of his feelings. He said that the trade unions would not guarantee any assistance in respect of wages, costs and other charges. But Caucus has said that the Government will go on with the prices referendum. This is what this Bill is all about, lt is not about inflation; it is about who is to have control of prices in Australia today. Is the control over prices to be altered? If so, the Constitution must be altered. 
It is not news to anyone in this Parliament that the States have the power over prices. I will not repeat to the Senate what has happened in recent weeks in regard to what some Premiers will do, what other Premiers may not do and what one Premier has indicated he will not do. But what is obvious is that the States have had enough of this Government's usurping of the powers of the 
States. There is no doubt in the minds of State governments and State parliamentarians that this is what is happening. They have the feelingand justifiably so- that this centralist Government is attempting a takeover of the States. Therefore they will fight any move to give the central Government further constitutional powers. 
If the honourable senator will stop his cackling and listen, I will tell him that, as I understand it,  Senator Withers  quite rightly said that it was likely that the Premiers would meet with the Prime Minister and cooperate, in a temporary sense, in respect of power over prices. What I say- I believe that  Senator Withers  will agree with me- is that the State Premiers will not agree to give permanent power to the central Government. 
What has happened in respect of the powers of the State governments since this Government came to office? It is true that at the first Premiers Conference and Loan Council meeting a generous Government gave the States the right to spend many hundreds of millions of dollars in the form of grants and loan funds. This was one of the Government's first big inflationary moves. But some time after that meeting was over the master- the Prime Minister- announced that there would not be any more Premiers Conferences. It was indicated quite clearly to the Premiers that, if and when they wanted anything from the central power, they could come to Canberra at a time convenient to them and the master and put their own individual case or their own individual requirements. This appears to be an amazing move which has been made to stop the Premiers of the sovereign States getting around the table and talking with the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Prime Minister. 
The Prime Minister took over- quite rightly, because he is the elected Prime Minister- being in charge of the arranging of the Constitutional Convention which had been mooted by State Premiers and the previous Government and which was held in Sydney early this month. The Convention consisted not only of delegations from the Federal and State Parliaments but also of delegates of local government bodies. This move had my full support. But, unfortunately, it would appear that the Constitutional Convention, which was a pipe opener for the needed consideration of required constitutional amendments, turned into a mini Premiers Conference. 
There was a lot of haggling at the convention until the Prime Minister and the Premiers, with the exception of the Premier of Queensland, had a chit chat around the table at Kirribilli. We probably will hear more about what went on at that conference when we read the celebrated nonsense column 'My Day' in a few days' time. But it is a fact that the master, who had said that there would be no more Premiers Conferences, turned the Constitutional Convention into a mini Premiers Conference and that nothing to dampen the fires of inflation resulted from that meeting. 
Then the rolling began. The small Cabinet made a decision- by coincidence, perhaps, when the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  was away attending a very important trade conference on behalf of this nation. Then the mini Cabinet took that decision to the big Cabinet and the big Cabinet took it to Caucus, and the rolling went on. So the Australian people, in considering why the Opposition is opposing this Bill on their behalf, will realise that in the national Government which is not yet a year old there is no solidarity, there is no unified thought and there is no cohesive view of what should be done in the future. The Government is divided into a thing of shreds and patches. This is the alarming feature of the national Government today. 
The Government, in a bit of political gimmickry, decided to introduce this Bill to alter the Constitution so as to enable the Australian Parliament to control prices. Clause 2 of the Bill states: 
Section5 1 of the Constitution is altered by inserting after paragraph (xiv) the following paragraph: (xivA.) Prices:'. 
That is what this debate is all about. It is the job of the Labor Party, if it is sincere, first and foremost to try to persuade the Parliament to give the Government the authority to go to the people on this question. I do not blame the Labor Party for its efforts to persuade the Parliament if at the same time it gets across to the people of Australia the reasons why, if the referendum is held, they should be prepared to vote to give the central Government power over prices. 
But I believe that the public will be grateful to the founding fathers who, in drawing up our Constitution, made it very difficult for it to be altered. As we all know, a majority of the people and of the States has to be obtained before the Constitution can be altered. If one does not want the Constitution to be altered, it is customary for one to vote 'No'. A celebrated statesman of earlier years, when stating why constitutional amendments had a long history of defeat, said that it was obvious that they always would have because of the way the Constitution was set up. When he was asked why, he said: 'Because in Australia there are more women voters than men voters and they have always been taught to say no'. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I ask Government senators to allow  Senator Marriott  to make his speech and to desist from their continual interjections. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder! I want  Senator Keeffe  to know that an order which is given by the Chair must be obeyed. The comment that  Senator Marriott  was not making a speech was a ridiculous and silly one. I ask  Senator Keeffe  to refrain from making such interjections. 
I have emphasised that the writers of the Constitution, as history has proved, knew their job and that it is difficult to alter the Constitution.  Senator Douglas  McClelland told us about events that took place in, as he said, 1 948.  His  script writers may have a better knowledge of the subject than I, but I did have in my notes a reference to these events taking place in 1947. However, in either 1947 or 1948 the then Labor Government attempted to obtain control of rents and prices, including charges, and failed. Up until 1 949 the Commonwealth Government, under its defence powers, had control of prices in the Commonwealth. Something which should be remembered by those in government today is that some 24 years have elapsed since then and that anyone who was 17 at the time of the last Labor Government would be 41 now and would not have had any experience as a voter of what life was like in the workforce under price control with a Labor Government in office. 
There was a war from 1939 to 1945. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order!  Senator Gietzelt  will cease interjecting. 
Since 1 949 many hundreds of thousands of people have come to this country as migrants and are now Australian citizens. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder!  Senator Mulvihill  will cease interjecting. 
It is true to say that the great bulk of the Australian public has no real memory of what Australia was like under Labor with central price control. They would not remember the blackmarkets, the favouritism, the frustration of people trying to buy and sell, the dampening down of initiative and the killing of enterprise. I defy anybody to try to prove otherwise than that the hardships to which I have referred do occur in a nation which has central control over prices only. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTOrder! I just want to say - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTSenator Keeffe, I ask you not to treat the Chair with contempt. The continuing running fire of interjections must stop. I want all honourable senators to know that  Senator Marriott  has the right to be heard in silence. I will take steps to make sure that he is heard in silence by naming anyone who interjects. 
We used to hear  Senator Cavanagh  talk sincerely about the rights of people to be able to speak. It is an extraordinary thing that the so-called democrats are now drunk with power on being elected to office. Honourable senators opposite are trying their best to stifle criticism of the Government, but they will never howl me down. With great respect to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I do not need your protection. I will get my views across in this Parliament whenever I rise to speak. There is not a ratbag on the other side of the House who will be successful in stopping me. If  Senator Keeffe  thinks I do not mean him he is mistaken. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! I have spoken to you before,  Senator Poyser,  and warned you. I want you to understand that if I hear another interjection from you I will name you. 
This is just a cheap way of trying to waste time. Every minute of my time that is wasted by interjections is one minute less of valid criticism that will be heard not only by the people in this chamber but also the listeners to the broadcasting of the Senate's proceeding and that will be read by the readers of Hansard. The Government will know from the result of the Parramatta by-election next week how it is held in such low regard throughout the country today. When honourable senators opposite are criticised they very easily turn into a mob of larrikins. As far as I am concerned, I will carry on regardless of their behaving like larrikins. I want to point out to the people of Australia that the Labor Government's ideas, ambitions and efforts are based on control and more control. It is never happy unless it is controlling the people, increasing the size of the Public Service and appointing people to advise it on how to control and manage the people. The people of Australia were free of that for 23 glorious years. What is happening today? After only 9 months of occupation of the Treasury benches by the Labor Government the people are waking up to the sorts of things it will do when it is in power. It has set up the Prices Justification Tribunal. I do not know whether it is going to be of any use. I am not prepared to voice an opinion yet. I will give it a chance to prove itself. But I do not think it has any teeth. However, I understand that it took the Tribunal only about half an hour to say: The extra excise on petrol provided for in the Budget is a justifiable reason for an increase in the price of petrol by 5c a gallon. But what is the position in the Australian Capital Territory, which has no local government, which has no State parliament, and which is under the control of a person whom caucus wished to destroy by making him Minister for the Capital Territory. I refer to the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory,  Mr Enderby. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I know. 
What happened? The Minister for the Capital Territory immediately froze the price of petrol in the Australian Capital Territory. That is an example of what Labor will do in government. He then rightfully asked the Prices Commissioner in the Australian Capital Territory to inquire into the price of petrol and ascertain whether an increase should be granted. 
From my reading of the Press the Prices Commissioner reported to the Minister that in his view the price of petrol in the Australian Capital Territory should be increased by the amount of the increase in excise imposed by the Budget. Did the dictator of the Australian Capital Territory say that the judge's decision- the umpire's decision- was final and that he would abide by it? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The word 'dictator' was used by you,  Senator Marriott,  and  Senator Poyser  has asked for it to be withdrawn. I ask you to withdraw it. 
I have no hesitation in withdrawing the word 'dictator' or the words dictator of the Australian Capital Territory' if they offend a member of the Australian Labor Party. I have nothing but the highest regard personally for  Mr Enderby.  But I must say- I think  Senator Poyser  will in all fairness allow me to say- that by using almost dictatorial powers he refused to accept the umpire's verdict- the decision of the Commissioner. This is an example of what Labor will do when it is in power. 
The Opposition does not want to give the Government central power over prices because that is how it behaves when it has such power. What is the situation at the present time in respect to the controlling of prices by Labor in the only place- the Australian Capital Territorywhere it now has power to control them? The price of petrol is still frozen to the preBudget price. The companies are paying the extra 5c excise, and the Minister has called in the manager or managing director or head man of one of the independent oil companies to advise him over and above the head of the Prices Commissioner what he should do about the price to be charged for petrol and fuels in the Australian Capital Territory. This may not be of great moment to people outside the Australian Capital Territory, but it is at least an indication of what would happen if they gave this power by referendum. 
I return to the Bill. I have given a number of cogent reasons why I at any rate am pleased that my Party and I believe other members of the Opposition are opposed to this Bill. 1 believe it would be wrong, first of all, to waste the money. It has been publicised that a referendum would cost well over $2m. There is an effort to hurry it on. Parliament, we are told, has a very heavy program of legislation before it. The Parliament, we are told, is scheduled to meet until 9 December, yet the Government is trying to suspend Standing Orders so it can rush the Bill through and then hold a referendum, if Parliament gives it authority to do so, by or on 1 December. My sincere hope, for the sake of the people of Australia both now and in the future, is that the Bill will be killed here and that the people will not be put to the bother and expense of a referendum; that the Parliament will be allowed to get on with the job of legislating; that the Government will really and truly settle its problems internally and get busy with seeking outside advice, if that is needed, and try to do something to stop the great on-rush of inflation which has made such headway since the Government came to office. For those reasons I hope the Senate will defeat this Bill and that the Government will get on with governing and will let the people have a little more freedom. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether it is true that in a speech by the Prime Minister, the Honourable E. G. Whitlam, to a Master Builders Association function in New South Wales on Friday, 14 September- and I quote from the officially circulated transcript of the speech- he said: 
We - 
That is, the Government- have introduced a graduated form of tax deductions of interest rates for home buyers. 
Is it not a fact that in reality this aspect of the Government's housing policy has little likelihood of coming into effect until the year 1974-75 at the earliest? 
-Some 40 minutes ago, I think it was, the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  without any great lasting effect reminded the Senate that we were discussing his motion to suspend standing order 242 in order to obviate the necessity to have a call of the Senate and a delay of some 2 1 days in this legislation on the prices referendum. At the risk of being called a traditionalist, which I am and of which I am proud, and at the risk of being told by the wise people, the smart people on either side of the chamber that I am telling them something that they all know, I want to refer to the importance of this desire to suspend Standing Orders so that if any listeners are left and are paying attention to this debate- in any case I say if for those who will read the record- they will know why we are debating this motion and why, in my opinion, we should not pass it. 
We have heard the word 'democratic' used in respect of one section of the Australian Labor Party, and the word 'democracy' has been thrown across the chamber in recent weeks. I had 20 years in this Senate when the Labor Party was in Opposition and the members of that Party were great exponents- and I supported them- of the rights of members of Parliament, of upholding the tradition and the Standing Orders, and of freedom of speech. 

 - Senator Cavanagh was one of the most outspoken members of the Labor Party on this subject and when he was in opposition he lived up to his belief, and I have never criticised him for it. But the hard cold fact is that when the Constitution was written the writers of the Constitution provided- and it was agreed to by this Parliament- that it would be very difficult to alter the Constitution in the future. Because of that, and also because of the efficiency of those who drew up the Constitution, there have been very few alterations to the Constitution since 1 90 1 . 
The Constitution laid down that there would be 2 Houses of Parliament- a bicameral system of government- and if the bicameral system of government means anything, in my view it means 2 principal things. Firstly, it provides, for a house of review. Secondly, the very existence of that house of review ensures that any legislation that may be introduced by a majority government in the House of Representatives must have time to mature and to become known to the Australian people before it is debated in the second chamber, which is the Senate. In other words, the Constitution, by providing for 2 Houses of Parliament, ensured that the voice of public opinion could be heard by the parliamentarians, the Government and principally the senators sitting in the Upper House, and this has happened so far. A very quick decision to hold a referendum on prices has been made. The debate on the legislation providing for the referendum was cut short in another place, but in the Senate as much time as was required was allowed in order to debate the legislation. 
The Constitution also provides that Parliament should draw up its Standing Orders, and the Standing Orders of the Parliament provides the further safeguard that the rights of the people shall be upheld and that the people, if they so desire, shall be able to make their voices heard before the Parliament takes any action in respect of which the people want to express their opinion to the parliamentarians. So in drawing up the Standing Orders the Parliament has made it more difficult to alter the Constitution by including standing order 242 which this debate is all about. 
I would not vote for the suspension of this standing order for anything other than a prices referendum because if I agree with anything that has been said on this subject by the Government in either House it is with those who have said: 'If the power is to be given, it should be given quickly, because the longer you give those who will be raising prices, the more they will raise them before the Government, if it is to get power to control prices, gets that power'. Of course, the Government has been hoist with its own petard. Its argument in this respect does not really hold much strength because it set up the Prices Justification Tribunal- a toothless terror that is proving to be useless. It has been proved to be useless by the very action of the Government in bringing forward a Bill to have a referendum in order to get full control over prices. So those who wish to make a profit out of the public in this time of inflation and affluence have had all the notification that they need. A very late decision was made a week ago to hold this referendum, and the normal rules and regulations that have to be followed in order to conduct this referendum mean that at least 2 to 3 months- if not 4 months- will elapse before the Government, if it gets the power, introduces into the Parliament legislation to give effect to its policy on price control. 
So the Constitution, our Standing Orders and our system of government have provided for a delay so that the people can make their opinions heard. There will be time for the people to be fully informed of the dangers of price control. Although I am glad that standing order 242 is available to us, I will not oppose the motion for 2 reasons. Firstly, enough time now has been provided to enable the public to be informed, and the people will make their opinions known at the ballot box. Secondly, I am confident that the Australian Labor Party will never be given power over prices in the Federal sphere while the Australian people have the right to deny the Labor Party that power. 
-In rising to support this motion I make it quite clear from the start that 1 will be referring to one aspect of  Senator Devitt  's speech a little later, when it is his turn. Secondly, I do not propose- I am not called upon to do so in a speech of 15 minutes- to proclaim a defence policy or to deal with minute details of our defence services. I make it quite clear also that in supporting this motion and the establishment of increased defence Services in Australia I am not being a warmonger. I am glad that so afar in this debate that sort of nonsense has not been thrown around, as has been customary. But I do believe in defence preparation and in defence education. 

 Senator Devitt, my Tasmanian colleague who served with distinction in the Air Force, criticised  Senator Maunsell  for saying that it took about 7 years to train a serviceman, but he will agree that it does take a number of years to train people to officer rank in the sophisticated Services, particularly the Navy and the Air Force. Naturally  Senator Maunsell  did not imply that it takes any number of years to train an Australian to be an ordinary serviceman in the Army, Navy or Air Force. Our defence academies are providing up to and above university education for the officers who are required for the sophisticated equipment, aircraft and ships that we have. 
The matter of urgency before the Senate regrets the lowering of the morale of our defence Services, and I support that aspect of it. It is true to say that the morale of a nation is mirrored in the morale of the defence Services. It is also true to say that the morale of a nation gets some lead from the morale, moral fibre and behaviour of its national Parliament. We should be setting an example and the people of Australia should be looking to their Service personnel with respect and with support. At no time can it be said that it is easy to run a peace-time defence Service, lt will be more difficult because of the announced policy of this Government that troops and servicemen generally will all remain in Australia and or in Australian waters. Even Australian participation in naval exercises outside Australian waters has recently been cancelled. Lesser flying hours are to be incurred by our Air Force. 
All these factors will add to the problems of the commanding officers and people who run our Services in trying to maintain the morale of the troops. No bribes in respect of recruiting, reenlistment or discharge will attract young Australian men into our armed Services if the morale of those Services drops as I believe it is dropping today. I am a firm believer in the armed services for defence only, not for aggression. Also I do not believe that we should have one person employed in uniform or as a civilian purely to take up slack in employment. Nobody who cannot be usefully used in the work of the defence services and their administration should be employed in the Services. 
I do not believe that bands and other display units should be maintained merely for display purposes. In times of difficulty in recruiting- in every period of full employment it is difficult to recruit servicemen and it will be more difficult as the morale of the Services falls- there is a need to show the Services to the people. The taxpayers, who are paying immense sums of money every year to maintain the Services, deserve to see on occasions the Navy, the Air Force and units of the Army from various areas parading and displaying their training and ability in order that the public may know what their defence Services consist of. The stronger we maintain our defence Services the greater will be the respect shown to us by our allies. It is axiomatic that the stronger we are and the stronger the respect of our allies for us is the less is the chance that we will have to call our defence services into action to defend us. If we weaken our defence power and go on insulting our allies, neighbours, influential countries and friends the greater will be the chance of attack from the north, be it the near or distant north, upon these shores. This is why I believe that we should be alarmed at what appears to be happening today in relation to the Australian defence services. 
In 1945, when Labor was in office, the Australian defence Services were the strongest, bestequipped and well-trained in our history. With the cessation of the war and with the Labor outlook at that time the Services were allowed to dwindle. I remember early in my career in the Senate in 1954 saying in the Budget debate that we had found that our defence Services were a thing of shreds and patches. From that time on the government of the day gradually built up, reformed and modernised the Services. No one can deny that those Services proved to be able to meet the test and requirements that were put to them. 
We were criticised from time to time- I do not say by the Labor Party, because 1 forget its criticismsby elements in the community who said that we were not spending enough of the people's money. But looking back those critics now would swallow their words and say: 'No, you had other national responsibilities which you saw and you helped to develop Australia rapidly'. So everyone knew, at least up until 1972, that this land of ours was known as Australia unlimited. But during the latter years of the regime of the Liberal-Country Party Government there were winds of international change blowing that were not foreseen by anybody. We saw the United Kingdom, for obvious reasons, withdraw from east of Suez. We saw the closing down- it appears for keeps- of the Suez Canal which would be an important sea link for us should ever we require our defence Services to be maintained in a time of war. 
This Government has been highly critical and insulting about South Africa, but we who know our nation's history remember that South Africans fought side by side and bravely with our men in 2 world wars, and those who may be blind in their ideology and criticism of a country that they know little about should remember that the naval base at Simonstown, the ports of Cape Town and Durban and the sea routes around the Cape will be of great importance to Australia and its allies should our defence Services ever be called upon to defend this country. 
Another wind of change has come into the Pacific and Indian oceans. The British have withdrawn to all intents and purposes, so there has been an understandable contraction of United States influence and involvement in this part of the world. The vacuum there is being filled to a large extent by Russian forces. I am not prepared to say at this moment that that is all bad, but we cannot help but proclaim that Russian armed services are a potential threat to this country and we would have little defence against them if we did not maintain the friendship of strong allies in America, the Commonwealth of Nations and other countries.  Senator Devitt  was critical and said that this Government would not take the advice of its advisers. I throw this back in his face. 
I am sorry; I made a mistake. It is easy to make a mistake after more than 20 years of Liberal-Country Party Government.  Senator Devitt  said that the previous Government- the Government that really cared about defence- did not take the advice of its advisers, yet the new 2-man syndicate that started to run the country on 2 December last year did. What did  Mr Barnard  say in this statement from which  Senator Devitt  quoted little parts in order to help his case? I read from page 8 of the roneoed copy of his speech: 
But the favourable strategic prospect allows us an opportunity to review and rationalise, to promote more efficient and economical defence capabilities. After the more or less continuous defence expansion of the last 10 years, it is a time for taking stock . . . 
We should all be conscious of the fact that Australia has developed over the past decade a very significant level of defence capabilities. There has been a very substantial growth in manpower and equipment, and in some forms of defence facilities, although not in others. 
That was said by the Minister for Defence and all the other portfolios in a statement in the House of Representatives on 22 August 1 973.  Mr Barnard  was man enough to say: 'Yes, we could close down a bit because in the last 10 years my predecessors have built up strong defence forces for this country'. But where I differ with my Tasmanian colleague,  Mr Barnard,  is that I believe the closing down has been too rapid. In my view it has been done at the behest of an economistnot of a soldier, a sailor or an airman. It has been done at the behest of the Coombs report. It has been done to such a degree that some units in the field have so few men that training is a farce. It has been done so much that the Air Force of its own volition has placed 'for sale' notices on the Mirages. It has been done to such a degree that the FI 1 1 pilots have 12 more aircraft coming to Australia but they know not what they will do with them. 
It is understood in the defence Services that the one great shortage which this Government has caused or is causing is the shortage of mothballs because the Government just cannot find enough throughout the world to put into the equipment which will lie idle. This is because the 
Government has scant regard for the importance of and need for adequate defence forces in Australia today. One newspaper, quite rightly and a little humorously- not with pride, as we would have done recently- referred to the Royal Australian Army Corps as the Royal Australian Army Corpse. Another newspaper saw fit to say- and I completely agree with it- that there is no person outside the defence forces who knows in reality how much shearing and cutting off is going on and that the only way in which we can find out is by asking a series of searching questions of the Minister. These things are being done in the form of open government. There is no such thing as open government in the defence Services of Australia today. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In reply to  Senator Poyser  's point of order, the Committee decided to take the Bill as a whole. A little latitude is always allowed when discussing a Bill in Committee in those circumstances, but I do not propose to allow a second reading debate to ensue. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. When will he be in a position to say if and when the Senate will adjourn to participate in any campaign for the prices referendum? Or is it thought by the Government that the less said about the referendum the better the popularity of the Government will be? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I wish to give a brief preface. The question refers to communications between departmental heads and ministerial advisers. These people have become prominent and plentiful under this Administration. Can the Leader of the Government state unequivocally, now or in the very near future, whether rules or guidelines have been laid down to indicate whether heads of departments have the right to communicate direct with ministerial or departmental advisers without reference to the Minister concerned? Conversely, can the advisers communicate direct with departmental heads without reference to the Minister? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate if and when the Australian Government and /or the Australian Labor Party Caucus will come to a decision in respect of its attitude to Lake Pedder in Tasmania so that the Government of Tasmania, which is a sovereign State, will know when it can expect a halt to Federal interference which is harming the development and beautification of Tasmania by the encouragement of the flooding of Lake Pedder? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In pursuance of the Government's policy of open government, can the Senate be informed as soon as possible as to how much commission was paid, and to whom, for the purchase of the $ 1 ,300,000 Jackson Pollock painting Blue Poles'? What was the address and occupation of the recipient of the commission, if any, at the time of the purchase of the painting? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Will the White Paper which is said to be a blueprint of the Australian Labor Party health scheme- the contents of which have already been leaked to sections of the media, and then understandably discussed by Caucus- be made available to the Parliament and the people this week, or is it still subject to further prolonged discussion? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, representing the Prime Minister. Is the demotion of  Mr Mick  Young from the position of Secretary of the South Australian Branch of the Australian Labor Party to the personal staff of the Prime Minister to fill a vacancy on that staff or is it to forge a link between the Prime Minister and Caucus? 
One must not reflect on a vote of this House, but one can comment on it. If ever there was proof that this place should not have voted on the principal motion before it, it would be found in the result of the last division which was 20 to 25 against the Government One of the reasons why I want the debate to continue is that 1 realise that under the absurd sitting hours we are now forced to follow, as a result of which the question that the Senate adjourn is put at 7 p.m. a thin Senate would be present to make a decision of lasting importance to this country, a decision the effect of which will not be seen, I suggest, by very many, if any, honourable senators now in this chamber. We were going to rush a decision on this matter through on the death knock when 45 out of the 60 senators in this place were present. I do not believe that such a practice is in accordance with the traditions of Parliament and the traditions of this House. 
The situation is that all of a sudden, after months of inaction, we have brought before us a motion for a joint meeting of the 2 Houses to vote on this very subject matter. I believe we should forget about meeting with the other place and the question of the siting a new parliament house should be very thoroughly examined. I come down on the side of those who oppose a meeting of the 2 Houses to discuss this matter. I believe that such a course of action would be wrong and that we would be held up to ridicule if we adopted it. I believe that if a joint meeting were to be held there would be an endless debate and where it would be held I do not know. The fact is that the Senate has been placed in a position to discuss the matter. An amendment to  Senator Murphy's  motion has been moved by  Senator Prowse.  Without reflecting on anyone I wonder how, on close examination, that amendment can be acceptable because it is my belief that it is an absolute negation of the original motion. I have always thought that an amendment should not be a negation of a motion. 
The motion is that there should be a joint meeting of the 2 Houses, and the amendment moved by  Senator Prowse  proposes that the new parliament house be built on Capital Hill. Whether or not the amendment has been properly brought in- it was moved by  Senator Prowse  only 10 minutes or so ago- we now find that  Senator Byrne,  a man of great erudition who has taken a terrific interest in this question, has foreshadowed another amendment. One  speaker  was allowed to rise and briefly refer to the amendment before the gag was applied. I believe that we all should study what has been said in this place today. When we have had time to consider this matter we should resume the debate and make a decision. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to either the  President  or the Leader of the Senate. We have just heard something about badly run-down organisations. Could I be informed why there appears to be no business sheet indicating how this Senate will be run this morning? Can the Senate be informed why the Leader of the Government in the Senate and the Leader of the Senate are not sitting together at the table this morning? 
-At 6.52 p.m., which was 8 minutes before the Senate was due to adjourn, on Thursday of last week, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh),  in all good faith and sincerity, moved that the question be now put. I objected. A vote was taken. The Senate, in its wisdom, decided that the debate should not cease, the motion being defeated by a majority of 5 votes, 25 to 20. That indicated that at that hour, because of the parliamentary and electoral duties, ill-health and such, there were only 45 out of 60 senators available to vote on a subject which would have an effect on the Australian nation for many hundreds of years- an effect which would be for good if the right decisions were made, and for evil and harm, and at great cost, if the wrong decisions were made. 
I am one of the first to admit that perhaps too much already has been said about if, when, where and how we should build a new and permanent parliament house. I recall the debates of 1968 when I was one of the big majority in the Senate who voted for Capital Hill. Hindsight is valuable sometimes and on looking back I am of the opinion that if the Prime Minister of the 1950s and early 1960s, now  Sir Robert  Menzies, had had his way, made his decision and said that it was to be built on the lake side, possibly we would have a new and permanent parliament house at this time. If not complete and ready to occupy, it would have been under way on the lake side. That did not happen and I forecast that a new and permanent parliament house never will be built on the lake side. What I have just said brings into stark reality before us today the fact that we have a motion before us requesting a joint meeting of the 2 Houses of Parliament to decide certain factors regarding a new and permanent parliament house. An amendment to that motion was moved by you,  Mr Deputy President,  indicating that you desired that the Senate should not have a. joint sitting with the House of Representatives but should give an opinion that the new and permanent parliament house should be sited on Capital Hill. An amendment has been foreshadowed by the learned  Deputy  Leader of the Democratic Labor Party  (Senator Byrne)  in which he will ask the Senate to support the holding of a convocation, a convention, to decide how, when, and where a new and permanent parliament house should be built. 
-A convocation of members of the Parliament as opposed to a joint sitting of the Parliament.  Senator Byrne  no doubt will give his views on this proposal if and when the time arrives. The first point I want to make now is that at 6.56 p.m. last Thursday when I stood in my place I did not do so for any mischievous reason. I did not want to delay a decision but I wanted to prevent the taking of two or three votes during the last moments of the parliamentary week when only 45 senators were available to vote. A little while ago there were more than 50 senators in this building. If we can come to a vote on the questions before us this evening I believe that in spite of parliamentary and other duties and health requirements 55-odd senators would be available, which is about par for the course for a nearly complete muster of senators to give a Senate decision. I said that in 1968 1 supported Capital Hill. At that stage there had not been built onto the present Parliament House the 4 wings or corners that have been added at a total cost, I suggest, of some $5m to $7m. Those wings provide modern office and committee accommodation and are of a pretty good standard. 
Per wing. At that stage this building needed a terrific amount of repair. I am not so solidly sold on Capital Hill at the present time. One of my reasons is the action taken by my Tasmanian colleague,  Senator Wright,  in recently introducing a Bill which also shows a map of the parliamentary triangle. It showed this building partly used and the new edifice of parliament house built on Camp Hill. It showed the remainder of the parliamentary triangle as not built on but retained as a national memorial garden. I believe that there would be no finer spectacle in Australia than the view from anywhere on the far side of Lake Burley Griffin across to the buildings now fronting the lake on this side, with the gardens, trees and statuary, and with this building rising behind and linking with a new and permanent parliament house on the Camp Hill site. As a backdrop there would be Capital Hill, untouched by buildings for all time. That would happen if we agreed to  Senator Wright's  Bill. There would be a beautiful garden in the background. 
In our Senate party room not so long ago it was pointed out to me that if you look from here across to the other side of Lake Burley Griffin you do not see the Australian War Memorial on top of Mount Ainslie; you see it at the base of the Mountain with gardens in both the foreground and the background. I believe that to have the new parliament house placed in such a situation on Camp Hill and with an everlasting memorial garden on Capital Hill, as  Senator Wright  suggested, would be a happy way out of all our afflictions. I am not going to go through all the arguments again and I am not going to listen to interjections. In this type of debate we should not be interrupted by stupid interjections and wisecracks. We should consider points seriously and speak freely of our many thoughts on this matter. 
I make it quite plain that I will oppose any joint meeting of the Parliament to decide this matter or any matter other than a constitutional one. I believe that no good would come from it and that it would be an added waste of time. If we come to a vote I will support  Senator Prowse  's amendment because at least that would kill the motion relating to a joint meeting. If that amendment is defeated I will consider the foreshadowed amendment of the  Deputy  Leader of the Democratic Labor Party. I want to say to the Senate that I believe all three proposals should be defeated. If I were the Leader of the Government in the Senate today, or the leader of the House- whoever has the power- I would say that we should withdraw our motion and the 2 amendments and allow  Senator Wright  to make a second reading speech on his Bill. I would say that we should make a decision on that Bill and insert in it the words 'Capital Hill' or allow Camp Hill' to be specified as the Bill stands. I would at least let this Senate pass a Bill which would be a parliamentary document. That is what the Senate wants. Senate resolutions have no effect in law. They have no influence anywhere. Governments do not have to obey resolutions of the Senate. On the other hand a Bill at least must be transmitted to another place. 
This Government appears to want to get on with the job of starting to plan and build the new and permanent parliament house and I believe that if it got a Bill from the Senate it would be put high on the notice paper for the remainder of this session. The Bill finally would pass in some form and would become an Act of Parliament. A decision would be made which would be to difficult to unmake, although it could be made by the will of Parliament. The planners could get on with planning. At the moment the Parliament has its foot on the development of this area of Canberra. The planners, who are experts- they have proved that- are standing off, waiting for 185 members of Parliament to decide where the new and permanent parliament house will be. The only way we can give our real decision to this nation is by passing a Bill and foregeting about motions which need not mean anything. In my heart of hearts, I hope that the motion and the 2 amendments will be defeated and that the Bill will be brought on and a decision reached. If not, 1 hope that we will prevent a joint meeting of the 2 Houses. If we do not do that and we must make an ineffective decision by way of resolution, I hope that we will opt for Camp Hill. 

 - Senator Rae, you should keep to the amendment you are now moving. 
Leave out paragraph (b) of sub-clause (2), insert the following paragraph: 
14 other members selected or appointed as hereinafter provided. 
Clause 4 would then read: 
1 ) There shall be a Commission by the name of the Schools Commission. 
The Commission shall consist of- 
A Chairman; and 
14 other members selected or appointed as hereinafter provided . . . 
Clause 4 then would go on to provide for those aspects to which I referred in opening my remarks. I commend the amendment to the Senate and seek the support of the Senate for the extension of the Commission from a membership of twelve to a membership of fifteen. 
I naturally join with other senators and you,  Mr President,  in welcoming back  Senator Bishop,  the Minister for Repatriation. I direct a question to him in his capacity as Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Will he make inquiries, and advise the Senate when the information is available, as to whether it is true, as indicated in the Launceston 'Examiner' of Monday, 19 November, that the Prime Minister travelled, presumably by Royal Australian Air Force VIP aircraft, on Saturday, 1 7 November, from Adelaide to Sydney to record his vote at the State election and continued to Launceston, arriving one hour late for his appointment at an agricultural show? What was the cost to the taxpayer of this excursion, if it took place? Are not postal votes available to New South Wales electors who wake up in time? 
My question is addressed either to the Minister who administers the Australian Government Publicity Office or the Minister representing the Minister in charge of the Government Publicity Office. Can the Senate be informed now or in the near future why the dossier of ministerial statements dated 15 to 1 8 November and containing a verbatim report of a speech by the Prime Minister in Hobart on Sunday, 18 November, does not contain any statement or answers understood to have been given by the Prime Minister at a Press luncheon in Hobart that day? Is it that the Prime Minister does not want some of the things he is supposed to have said at that conference to appear in print? 
My question without notice- and I do not expect the Minister to have anything to read from- is addressed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. When the Minister is able to give the information will he state whether it is customary for representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission or other news media to be permitted to travel in Royal Australian Air Force aircraft during any search operations in which the RAAF is taking part? If it is not, will the Minister institute inquiries to ascertain why and by whom the RAAF was instructed to take ABC representatives on RAAF aircraft of their choice during the search for the crew of the ill-fated 'Blythe Star'? Will he also inquire whether operational conversations between the RAAF crew and search and rescue headquarters were recorded by an ABC representative without the knowledge or permission of the captain of the aircraft? 
-In rising to give wholehearted and enthusiastic support to this Bill on behalf of the Liberal Party I want to say that I feel we are all pleased with this good news in the field of health care for a particularly unfortunate and growing part of our population. I believe that I should read into the record the full title of the Bill because it expresses delightfully the aim of the Bill. It is a Bill for an Act to provide for financial assistance to the 
States, local governing bodies and voluntary organisations in respect of the provisions of medical and other services or facilities in relation to mental illness, mental disability, alcoholism and drug dependence. The Bill provides signs of a new approach to mental health in all its aspects as covered in the long title of the Bill. It shows the people of Australia that the Commonwealth Government and departments of health are continuing to develop a helpful and understanding approach to the problems that, as I say, beset an unfortunately increasing number of the Australian population. 
The Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  who represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  in the Senate said in his second reading speech that the Bill provides: 
. grants for the capital costs of approved additional community facilities for alcohol and drug dependent persons and the mentally disturbed or disabled. These will not be inside mental hospitals. They will include both non-residential and hostel facilities for prevention, outpatient treatment, training and rehabilitation. 
He then went on to say: 
Under the Bill the Minister will approve schemes and projects submitted by the States, local governing bodies and voluntary organisations. State schemes may include projects of voluntary organisations within the State. 
I want to add further in congratulating the Government that the Liberal and Country Parties in another place wanted to amend the original Bill. During the second reading debate in the other place the Minister accepted the idea and an amendment was passed in Committee that pleased all sections of the House. 
As would be well known by my colleagues in the Senate, throughout the year 1970 and up until 6 May 1971 I was  Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. It is interesting to note that of the 8 members of that Committee seven are still members of the Senate. I refer, of course, to  Senator Dame  Nancy Buttfield,  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Georges, Senator Maunsell, Senator McManus, Senator Wheeldon.  The other member of the Committee is my own personal friend and former colleague, now  Mr George  Branson. We do not claim because we submitted a very complete and comprehensive report that in respect of any action that has been taken in the field covered by our report we necessarily were responsible or even ignited the thought that has culminated in some helpful action being taken in what I must say is the fight against drug dependency and alcoholism. 
In respect of what I consider to be the kernel of the Bill- the points I read from the Minister's second reading speech- I wish to quote the following extract from page 68 of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse: 
The Committee therefore recommends that a sum of $5m should be made available immediately for distribution to the States for the provision of facilities and staff for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug dependence, including alcoholism. These funds should be used for the facilities to be provided by Governments and for the support of voluntary organisations. The amounts required to maintain an adequate treatment and rehabilitation program should be reviewed annually and a continuing Commonwealth contribution on a dollar for dollar basis with the States for this purpose should be assured. 
This Bill provides $7.5m each year for the next 2 years. This is something that I know will give great heart to people in the States who are connected with local government and voluntary organisations. Throughout our taking of evidence in all the States we heard from people in these voluntary organisations. Their main trouble was the lack of money. Although various people and some States were helping the organisations they were all cramped in their efforts and some had to close down. The work that could be done has not been very successful. I believe that those organisations will be given new heart and new encouragement and it is hoped that all governments in the future while the need shall last will continue with this outlook towards the sicknesses that this Bill covers and will help to look after those people who are affected. 
The Committee found that it was essential in the whole field of drug abuse and alcoholism that there be voluntary organisations as opposed to those run by governments or government instrumentalities. So many of the people who either were suffering or who had relatives who were suffering from the sickness of drug dependency or alcoholism for obvious reasons did not like to attend a government institution and talk with a government official. But those people would willingly go along to the voluntary organisations. These voluntary organisations all had members of the medical profession of high standing, very interested and helpful departmental officers on the outside and in some cases and probably in most cases members of the drug squads and the narcotics squads of the Department of Customs and Excise giving a helpful hand and advice in a completely voluntary style. Although it could be said that the recovery rate from drug dependency or alcoholism is not great- it is not a high percentage- I believe it can be said that recovery has occurred in a number of cases. It has definitely been proved that where the organisations, the treatment, the advice and later on, if necessary, the hospitalisation are available the recovery rate can be greatly increased. It can be shown very easily that where someone who is suffering from diseases which this Bill encompasses is motivated back into normal civilian life it is of great benefit not only to the community and the country but also to the family to which those formerly sick persons belong. Anything the Government can do in this respect is worthy of support. 
I do not wish to delay the Senate any longer. A long debate took place in another place and much has been said and written about the causes and effects of drug abuse and alcoholism. All I believe in is already contained in the report that I had the privilege to sign on behalf of the Committee. The only final remark I will make is that I am pleased with the way this Bill describes how this money will be spent. If I have one complaint in Australia and in the international sphere in respect of the fight against alcoholism and drug dependency it is that too much money is being spent by too many people writing too many articles and books, most of which are complete takes out of articles which have been written previously by other experts. These people travel together to various countries, hold seminars and conventions, write more papers and come to more findings and not one person is aided in his or her fight to get rid of the cause of drug abuse or alcoholism. This Bill provides the working tools and the encouragement of the people, as the second reading speech of the Minister says, to go almost into the houses of the afflicted. These are the tools for the fight. The money is there and the encouragement is there. I congratulate everybody who has had any part in bringing the Bill to the national Parliament. 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
Amendments (by  Senator Wriedt)  agreed to: 
1 ) Leave out 'twelve months', insert 'two years'. 
2 ) Lea ve out sub-clause ( 5 ). 

 - Senator Wright's amendment reads: 
A Commissioner shall not exercise any power by this Act conferred upon him in any matter in which he has a direct or indirect pecuniary interest; unless 
his interest is recorded in the minutes; and 
his interest is disclosed in any report in which he participates. 
The question before the Committee is that the words proposed to be added by  Senator Wright's  amendment be so added. Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no, I think the ayes have it. 
Amendment agreed to. 

 Senator WRIEDT (Tasmania-Minister for Primary Industry)- I accept the inclusion of subclause (3) in clause 20. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Clause 2 1 agreed to. 
Clause 22. 
1 ) In the performance of its functions, the Commission shall have regard to the desire of the Australian Government, in pursuing the general objectives of national economic and social policy and urban and regional development, to improve and promote the well-being of the people of Australia, with full employment, stability in the general level of prices, viability in external economic relations, conservation of the natural environment and rising and generally enjoyed standards of living and, in particular, to the desire of the Australian Government to- 
improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used; 
My question, which I address to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, is a sincere attempt to find out something about how the Senate is expected to complete its work load for the remainder of the session. Is the Leader of the Government aware that there are 33 Bills on the Senate notice paper, that 7 Bills will be received by message today, that notice will be given of 2 others and that 2 Bills will be introduced? This will mean that a total of 44 Bills will be before the Senate which is a little less than 25 per cent of the total of 186 Bills already dealt with this year. In view of this information will the Leader of the Government inform the Senate of the total number of additional Bills which are expected to come to the Senate from the House of Representatives by message or which will be introduced in the Senate? How many of these Bills does the Government not require to be passed during this sessional period? When will the House of Representatives adjourn and when will the Senate adjourn? 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is it not a fact that the Broadcasting and Television Act does not prevent the broadcasting of referendum propaganda even on the day of taking the vote? Does the Minister feel that if this is a wise and correct procedure action should be taken to lift the prohibition now placed on the broadcasting of election propaganda after 48 hours prior to polling day thus bringing the broadcasting and television media into line with newspapers? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Australian Government intend to make financial grants to the States to allow them to pay an annual leave bonus to State public servants on the same basis as is proposed for Australian Government public servants and which, it is said, will cost the Australian taxpayer $2 7m annually? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did the Prime Minister attend at a polling booth in Sydney on Saturday to vote at the referendum? Was he informed then that a postal vote had been lodged in his name? If the answer to the second question is yes, can the Senate in due course be informed who signed the papers to get the postal vote ballot paper and who completed it on behalf of the Prime Minister? 
This afternoon we have witnessed the greatest verbal indication ever of an immature Party in Government acting stupidly through a pistol packing back bencher by the name of  Senator Gietzelt.  For a member of a Government Party which is in the absurd state in which the Labor Government is in today, a year after coming into office, to get up on the first reading of a Bill not to say anything of help to the nation but to indulge in snippets of criticism which he has learned from some of the newspapers and news media commentators over the last 12 months, is, to say the least, surprising. He finished his speech by saying that the Senate has shown a lack of maturity. What sort of judge does  Senator Gietzelt  think he is that he can say of this chamber that it has shown a lack of maturity?  His  comments have given me the chance to say a few things that I wanted to say but that I had a mind to withhold. I know of the mess into which the Government has got itself through a lack of ability in regard to its program for this session, but I was going to keep what I wanted to say to myself.  Senator Gietzelt  should remember what I once heard my colleague,  Senator Wright,  say to a member of the Australian Labor Party, namely: 'If you light a fuse you always want to have a lire brigade to put it out'. I believe that  Senator Gietzelt,  by his intemperate attack not upon Parliament, not upon the enemies of Australia and not upon industrial unrest but upon fellow members of the Parliament in the form of the Opposition, has lit a fuse that he may have some regrets about lighting in his attempts to put it out. 
I say in rebuttal that no government has a right to claim that it is doing a remarkably good job simply because it happens to introduce a large number of Bills in its first year in office. If and when an analysis is made of the legislation finally passed by this Parliament it will be found, thanks to the reviewal status of the Senate and the hard work of the Senate, started by Opposition senators and reflected in the homework being done by honourable senators on the Government side of the chamber, a number of Bills have been well tidied up. We have had 2 examples today of Government amendments being necessary to make its legislation good. Included among the 200 measures that we have passed or dealt with in the 77-odd days on which the Senate has sat this year has been a lot of rubbish. No government worthy of its name and no government trying honestly to get credit where credit is due would include in its legislative program a number of the Bills which have been passed in the present session. They are consequential and inconsequential. 
The Opposition in the Senate has been criticised because it has deferred consideration of some Bills and defeated some Bills outright. Those Bills have been bowled back up to us after the stone crusher down below has been in operation. But that is why we have 2 Houses of Parliament. The first element is to allow the public to become vocal if a measure is introduced and/or passed in another place. The second great element in our work is to review legislation. We amend it, defer it or defeat it. The news media have been referring to the actions of the Opposition. In fairness they should refer to the actions of the 3 different political parties in Opposition in this chamber. Each meets on its own and comes to its own decisions and, finding those decisions to be in accord, they agree to oppose certain measures. Over and above all that each of the parties has its own political organisation. Such organisations do not instruct them, but they can growl, they can complain and they can advise, just the same as does the Federal Executive of the Australian Labor Party. But the Government is dealing not just with 20-odd senators; it is dealing with 3 separate political entities. It is dealing with a combined Opposition which, after much thought, decides to take certain action. Members of the Opposition have been able in each case to get up and give good, solid reasons for taking the action that they have decided to take and those reasons are all in print. 
I have always believed that it is a government's job to govern. I also felt that the Government which came to power on 2 December last, or soon after that, had been in the doldrums for so long- out of office for so long- that one would have to put up with its lack of expertise. In retrospect I think that some Ministers have done remarkably well. Others have been and wil continue to be failures. But, overall, the business of this Senate has been very badly run. The Opposition has not been given a fair go on the programming of the legislation. We have had the absurd situation of changing the times and sittings of the Senate 3 times in the Government's period of office- and I believe that the times will be changed again before we adjourn for Christmas. Instead of more time a week being given to legislation, less time a week has been given under the last 2 alterations to programming. History Will reveal, and a fair assessment of the work of the Senate wil show, that more time has been devoted to legislation because of the greater number of Bills that more measures in which the Opposition has concurred have been passed with little or no debate; and that more second reading speeches have been incorporated in Hansard to save a great deal of time. This has been done only to help the Government govern. Whenever we had not agreed with those who occupied the Opposition benches last year and in previous years- and I have listened to them for 20 years- we had long debates on every social services, repatriation and health BUI that was introduced. Nearly every BUI that came before the Parliament was savagely debated and some platitudinous amendment was moved to the second reading debate. This has seldom been done in the many measures that have been put through this Senate this year because in Opposition we have known that we would have to fight strongly to defeat some Bills but we were willing to help the Government govern and to get through that legislation in which we concurred. 
Another point I make is that the Opposition Parties have co-operated far more willingly in the estimates committees than the previous Opposition co-operated in the estimates committees which were introduced by the previous Government. I believe that it is most unfair and unwise for a backbencher to get up at this stage of the game when people want to see legislation that is good passed but want to see that which is bad defeated. The Senate has been criticised in recent months for obstructing the Will of the Government. Every single item that was included in  Mr Whitlam  's policy speech is said to have a mandate to get it through Parliament. This is utterly absurd. Nobody goes to vote for a candidate at an election in any electorate saying: I will vote No. 1 for Brown so long as he sees everything in the policy speech becomes law'. That is utter nonsense. If it were so, Parliament need not meet. It would be useless. It would mean, as  Senator Murphy  almost implied the other day, that we should not speak to measures. It would be the dumb Parliament. The fact is that we have done much to help the Government. 
On Saturday the people clearly voted to indicate 2 things: Firstly, that they did not want power over prices and incomes centralised in Canberra and, secondly, that they did not trust the present Federal Government. The Government has seen the results of the Parramatta byelection, the New South Wales State elections and other elections held in Australia. There was no indication in any one of them that the people are pro-Labor. They are showing every day that this Government is in power that they are more against Labor. The Government should have learned that lesson on Saturday and said: 'After all, the Opposition Senators have been reading the minds of the people. They are knocking back some of our bad legislation. Let us take a look at ourselves. Let us play the game. Let us look to Australia and not to cheap political party advantage'. And this- looking to cheap political party advantage- I believe is what the Government has done. It has gone ideology mad and is administratively incapable. I tell Government senators that it is better that they take a look at themselves rather than criticise the Opposition senators who have been manly enough to get up and fight for what is right despite the attacks and the criticisms that come from the news media of Australia. On Saturday the people of Australia said to the Senate: 'Keep up your good work and harness this incapable mob '. 
The question is: 
That the motion be agreed to. 
Those of that opinion say aye, to the contrary no. I think the noes have it. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, and the Minister for the Capital 
Territory may also have an interest in it. Will the Minister inform me as soon as possible whether doctors in the new Australian Capital Territory city of Tuggeranong will be allowed to conduct their medical practices in suitable rooms attached to private homes or in leased rooms in commercial buildings, as is common throughout Australia, or whether it will be mandatory that they practice only from health centres? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is it customary for representatives of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, or other news media, to be permitted to travel in RAAF aircraft during any search operations in which that Service is taking pan. 
If the answer is in the negative, will the Minister institute enquiries to ascertain why, and by whom, the RAAF was instructed to carry Australian Broadcasting Commission representatives in an aircraft of their choice, during the search for the crew of the ill-fated Blythe Star. 
Will the Minister also enquire if operational conversations between the RAAF crew and Search and Rescue Headquarters were recorded by an Australian Broadcasting Commission staff member without the knowledge or permission of the Captain of the aircraft. 
I take up the phrase, 'the ordinary, normal, common procedures of the Parliament', used by  Senator Little.  It is amazing how the so-called stalwarts, the self-styled fighters for the freedom of speech in this Parliament- the members of the Australian Labor Party- have short memories and change their attitude to and support for the normal procedures and traditions of the Parliament and the traditions of freedom of speech. For as many years as I can remember, when we were in Government the Parliament would be opened in this chamber on a Tuesday afternoon at 3 o'clock either by  Her  Majesty, as was the case at the first opening I attended in 1954, or by the Governor-General or his  deputy.  Normally, when the motion for the Address-in-Reply had been moved and seconded the Senate would adjourn, not for a day, not for 48 hours and not only for an afternoon tea party and a $50,000 banquet. The Senate would adjourn until the following week. 
The supporters and the  demanders  of the freedom of speech and the traditions of Parliamentthe Australian Labor Party- firstly that great statesman  Senator McKenna  and those who have followed him, would not rise to speak in the Address-in-Reply debate until 8 o'clock on the second Wednesday after Parliament had been opened. This was done for 2 reasons: Firstly, the Leader ofthe Australian Labor Party in the Senate was never allowed to speak his mind in the Address-in-Reply debate until his Leader in another place had done so. Little  Sir Echo  had to wait. What a difference there is in the Senate now with the freedom of the Liberal Party. I am not sure what happened in another place tonight, but our Leader  (Senator Withers)  was prepared and free to state his views in the Address-in-Reply debate the first moment the Government gave him the opportunity to do so when the Senate met after  Her  Majesty's Speech. 
The second reason the Senate delayed the start of the Address-in-Reply debate was that the Australian Labor Party demanded that it have broadcast time in the Senate at 8 o'clock on a Wednesday night to start its campaign in that debate. For many a year after the opening of a Parliament the Address-in-Reply debate has continued until the following Thursday week with little or no interruption. But what are members of the Opposition doing in this Senate election year when we have been promised or threatened with a heavy concentration of legislation? We said to the Government: 'We will show you a little organisation and co-operation if you will stop acting. We will get through the Address-in-Reply debate by the Wednesday night following the commencement of the debate or by some time on Wednesday'. So the Government would be at least a fortnight ahead on the time that it demanded for the Address-in-Reply debate when it was in Opposition. But now Government members are theoretically drunk with the taste of power. It has the numbers in another place and the bulldozer is in action. But I believe that the people of Australia, outside of a few media commentators, are saying: 'Thank God for the combined Opposition of the Senate that is putting a brake and is showing restraint on a Government that is trying to push through legislation before one of the principal jobs of the Parliament is carried out'. I have  said  before today and I will go on saying as long as I am privileged to be a senator, that one of the great powers of the Parliament and one of the reasons for the second chamber is that it gives time for the people of Australia to be informed by the media and by other means of what has transpired in another place and what is coming up to the Senate for decision. I believe that we have been recreant to our duty many a time when we have agreed to the suspension of so much of the Standing Orders as would have prevented a Bill passing through all its stages without delay. Those who drew up our Standing Orders wanted at least 48 hours of parliamentary sitting time to pass before legislation was dealt with in this chamber after having been passed by the other chamber so that the public could be informed and become vocal about such legislation if necessary. 
In respect of the referendums, as  Mr Whitlam  calls them- I prefer to use the word 'referenda', although I have never been a Latin scholar- I can tell any member of the Australian Labor Party that I have not had one letter or telephone call from any elector wanting any of the referenda to be put to the people or passed. But if honourable senators opposite would like to see it, I would be prepared to show them the correspondence of dismay and despair I have received about the actions of the Government in turning the well favoured Postmaster-General's Department and its services into a shambles. The people are more concerned about inflation, the Government's attacks upon rural industry and many other facets of government than about referenda. 
They would not give a bumper for the Government's referenda proposals. If only the Labor Government would wake up to the facts of political life. I believe quite sincerely- I should not give honourable senators opposite helpful advice- that the Labor Government should respect the wishes of the State branches of the Australian Labor Party and decide not to go on with the referenda proposals. Let us have a straightout Senate election. Honourable senators opposite are frightened about that because they know that in matters of government they will be defeated. In matters of referenda they will also be defeated. At least the Opposition is cooperating with the Government by giving it extra time to devote to its legislation. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will he seek information and inform the Senate if anything is being done or could be done to give financial help to overcome the problems caused by inflation for those retired Australian Government public servants who received Provident Fund payments on retirement? I refer particularly to those ex-service men and women who were not accepted for superannuation entitlements because of war-caused disabilities but who have soldiered on and now, in retirement, are in great financial difficulties which they would not have suffered had they not enlisted for war service. 
Has the AttorneyGeneral any further information to give to the Senate in regard to legislative action to be taken in respect to the microfilming of documents required to be retained by companies and business undertakings, particularly for taxation purposes, to which he referred in answer to a question by me in the Senate on 1 1 September 1973? Is he aware that many companies are eagerly awaiting the legislation to which he referred then? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Is it a fact as reported in Tasmanian newspapers yesterday that the Australian Government has decided to reject in toto the recommendations of the Legislative Council Select Committee on War Service Land Settlement which had the support of the Tasmanian Government? Will the Minister indicate what is meant by the statement that 'the Federal Government will consider submissions by the State on individual cases'? Will he also indicate whether 'individual cases' means settlers on war service land settlement group areas as well as single unit settlers? Are all cases now, as it were, back to square one? If so, in order to alleviate their problems do the people concerned now have to recommence the tortuous path of representations through the State and on to the Canberran authorities? Is the Minister able to indicate why he has rejected all the recommendations of that Committee? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. When the Government's policy on tax rebates for housing loan interest payments comes into operation, when and under what conditions will those young home owners who have benefited from the homes savings grant policy have the right to claim tax rebates on their housing loans? 
To get away from sport and closer to the health of the people, I ask the Minister for Repatriation, if he is not aware of the situation, whether he will institute inquiries to discover whether a number of repatriation pensioners seeking medical advice in the Australian Capital Territory are unable to obtain the services of general practitioners because so many doctors in the Australian Capital Territory, as a result of the developing sense of insecurity brought about by the Government's emerging health policy, are either leaving the Territory or accepting salaried positions? Is it a fact that a general practioner receives only $2 for each visit of a repatriation pensioner? 
In the absence of the Australian Democratic Labor Party my question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the usual Public Service retiring age apply to all officers in the Department of Foreign Affairs? Does it apply to ambassadors appointed by this Government from outside the foreign service? When will the present ambassador to Ireland return to Australia? 
Would the AttorneyGeneral agree that it appears that, in connection with the resignation from the Senate at some time or other of the new Ambassador to Ireland, when it was learnt that action was being taken by the Queensland Government, action was taken by someone in this Government to make what may now prove to be a faked resignation by  Senator Gair  from this chamber? Is it not a fact that the proof that  Senator Gair  voted as a senator and an experienced parliamentarian at 10 p.m. yesterday makes it obvious that there may be a very serious attempt to mislead the Senate as at this moment? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I think he would agree that he owes loyalty to the staff in the Senate and should have some knowledge of the Standing Orders of the Senate. If that presumption is correct, I ask the Leader of the Government: If he was so certain that  Senator Gair  was not a member of the Senate after 1 4 March or 2 1 March, or whatever day prior to 3 April he wishes to choose, was he not in grave dereliction of duty and of decency and loyalty to the Usher of the Black Rod in not informing Black Rod that a stranger was in the House? Under standing order 445, as he should know, the Usher of the Black Rod, on being informed that there is a stranger in the House shall escort that stranger from the House. 
I seek the leave of the Senate to make a statement in relation to an article which appeared in the Sydney 'Sun' of Friday, 5 April. 
I desire to disagree on one point, with my leader,  Senator Withers,  so far as defence is concerned. He said that it is all a lot of fun and we will be sitting here for 24 hours. I doubt that it will be longer than 24 hours but there is no fun in this defence statement presented in this chamber by the Minister for Repatriation  (Senator Bishop)  as the representative of the Minister of Defence  (Mr Barnard).  I think it is a terribly alarming state of affairs that the defence of the country is the first ploy in a prepared political campaign. That ploy has been used to try to cover up what is a disgrace to the Government that is now in power. When this Government took office 18 months ago it is absolutely true to say- not one unbiased person would disagree- that the external and internal defences of this country, remembering that we were occupied, rightly or wrongly, in a war in Vietnam, were stronger than they had been in any period other than towards the end of the Second World War. 
Let us consider the Royal Australian Navy first of all. There were plans on the drawing boards to construct in Australia 3 DDL destroyers. They were to be built by Australian firms using Australian materials as much as possible and were for Australia's defences. This Government, not wanting to spend money on defence, instituted another inquiry. One of the great reasons it did not want to spend money on defence was that it realised that it was an inefficient government. In its attempts to court favour with the public it was going to waste a lot of money in other areas. It decided that the easiest thing was to cut down on heavy defence expenditure. I feel sorry for  Senator Bishop  who represents the Minister for Defence in this chamber and is his assistant. We recall when the Liberal and Country Party coalition was in government the very sincere approaches made by  Senator Bishop  for the 
Australian Government to weave its defence policy, particularly the construction of aircraft and anything to do with the Royal Australian Air Force, into such a pattern that the Australian aircraft industry could be given new life, could be sustained and could be ready to be an integral part of our defence if we needed greater production in time of war. I believe that  Senator Bishop,  who is a sincere member of the present Government regrets in his heart of hearts that orders are going overseas to buy naval ships that could have been replaced by better ships- the DDLs. They are all to be built overseas while many of our dockyards are wavering and dockyard workers do not know where their future lies. Their future certainly does not lie in helping this Government to build up our defence services. 
If one was to give a true description of the statement made by the Minister for Defence one could put it in a few words, namely, that at heavy expense some time somewhere this Government might buy something in the way of hardware for our defence services. There is nothing more definite than that. I recall that not long ago, after  Mr Barnard  had made another statement, we saw photographs of members of a RAAF squadron, their morale broken by this Government's inactivity, standing in front of an aircraft with a sign 'RAAF Squadron For Sale'. We know also that in the Navy under this Australian Government the saying is 'Join the Navy and see the Wharves'- the wharves to which the naval ships are tied as a mothball fleet because this Government will not spend money so that they can be out training and exercising not only among themselves but with ships of other nations. 
By its ineptitude this Government is doing great harm to industry which needs to be kept in motion and trained and prepared in materials and men in case we are called upon to defend ourselves or to help defend our treaty partners. This is one of the reasons why I see no fun or joy in the Minister's statement. Our treaty partners, our friends of former years- particularly the Americans who helped save us from 1942-1945- must be saying: 'What is to be our attitude to the new Australia under Labor which says on the eve of an election, having done nothing worth while for 18 months "We will spend $356m somewhere at some time on some type of hardware for the defence Services" '? This has been truly said by commentators who in recent months have not shown favour towards Opposition parties or to individual members of the Opposition. One commentator writing about our defence Services said that the Government was so ashamed but so impressed with its lack of policy regarding the defence services and so ashamed of what it was doing by whittling them down that the Minister or any other member of the Government would not be game to stand up and make or have prepared by their dozens of writers a statement setting out fully, unequivocably and truthfully what comprises the Services as fighting Services. 
I am saying it. 
I read it also. He said and 1 too say that to find the truth one will have to wheedle it out. One would have to get the war equipment or establishment tables of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and set out detailed questions like this saying: What are the units of the Royal Australian Corps of Signals which are now in operation? How many, if any, are up to fighting strength in personnel and modern equipment? So one would have to go all through the Army, the Navy, the Air Force and the auxiliary forces of defence to find the truth. Time and time again we make inquiries as to what, say, the Army is doing and we are told: 'Oh, that unit has been disbanded, that regiment is not now required, that force is doing something else'. The truth is that the Government of today is trying to put a great bluff over the public of Australia in what is one of the most important factors of its administrative responsibility. 
I hope, but I know that it will not come true, that before election day there will be enough decency, enough sincerity and enough sense of responsibility on the part of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)-  and God alone knows he talks enough- or the Minister for Defence to come out and say precisely: 'This is the state of the defence Services of Australia as at this time, after 18 months of our government. This is the amount of money that we have wasted. This is what we think we are going to do'. I do. not believe that it will be done but I know from now until election day, in the weeks that lie ahead before we come back into government, that 1 will expose to the people of Australia the rottenness and the lack of policy of this Government, the lack of responsibility and the lack of ability to get up and say: Yes, Australia, in the matter of defence we think that we need no strength, we think that we need no equipment, we think that everything is safe and lovely- and we will just stay at home and waste money on the news media by advertising Parliament and such things.' I believe that the statement of the Minister for Defence- not the statement of the Minister who represents him in this House, because I think that he is as sorrowful as I am over this matter- is a disgrace to the Australian Labor Government. 
My question without notice is addressed to the Minister for Repatriation and Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the frigates which the Government proposes to purchase for the Royal Australian Navy at some time in the future have single screw propulsion and that in the event of engine malfunction when at sea as fighting vessels of the RAN they will be propelled by outboard motors that will give them a speed, in favourable weather conditions, of 5 knots? This is not a joking matter. Can the Minister inform the House now, next week when we meet, or as soon as possible at what maximum distance from a friendly port it is anticipated that these vessels will be able to operate? 
I am glad that  Senator Wright  has focussed the attention of the Senate on this measure. I am well aware of and fully support the maintenance of the Standing Orders of the Senate. I am a very keen upholder and supporter of the high office of Governor-General, just as I am a supporter of the retention of the Australian flag, our present national anthem and our ties with the mother country, Great Britain. But I do not believe that we are doing a duty if we allow ourselves to be persuaded on this reference to the salary and allowances for a Governor-General in these terms: You must not show Party politics, you must not criticise or question. You just sit there and say "Yes,  Sir" and  let the Bill be passed'. We have a duty as a Parliament, as has this Senate as a house of review, to look at every piece of legislation that comes in and to see whether its provisions are fair to the top eschelon as compared with those in lower eschelons on the salary and income scale. We have a duty so to do because there is no doubt that when a measure like this becomes law, all of us- everyone in Australia- is entitled to have a look at it and to say: 'If that office is entitled to those emoluments, retiring allowances and conditions, what about upping ours a bit according to our importance on the national Australian scale?' 

 Senator Wright's analytical mind and forthrightness of character has got the Senate to this position today when we can in a sensible way raise the query: Is this measure designed with the right wording, amounts and effect? Once we put it on the statute book no government, I think, would bring in legislation to amend it, to make more harsh the provisions or to lower the emoluments. Therefore it would stand, as it were, as a pacesetter for this type of legislation. I believe that  Senator Wright  has done a job in bringing this to our notice. Look at what has transpired in the appointment of an ambassador designate. Look at the way it has come about- the fact that we do not know yet whether the man has resigned, whether he has been appointed, whether he is overpaid or whether he has committed a criminal offence by drawing emoluments from this Senate. These answers are not given to us. Under this Government anything could be done in the appointment to a high office. Nothing could be lower than what has happened with regard to  Senator Gair.  I do not criticise  Senator Gair  in this because I do not know what part he played except that he said yes. But if a Government will appoint a person to a position of trust and then carry on after the supposed appointment as this Government has behaved, anything goes. Therefore we ought to pay every attention to  Senator Wright's  amendment which appears to me to be able to stop in the future something else that might be bad. 
-I want to be very brief on this matter. I see the point that  Senator Wright  is making. I believe that we can appeal to the spirit of fairness of  Senator Willesee  who is in charge of the chamber. The facts are that around about Wednesday, 3 April, it became known that there would be a double dissolution of Parliament. One or more members of State Parliaments in Australia evinced interest and were endorsed to stand for election. Naturally they did not want to take action to get away from the House of Parliament of which they were members until it was sure that the election, which was due to be held in 1975, would be held in April or May 1974. Therefore, 14 days will need to elapse from last night in the case of  Mr Michael  Hodgman. I understand it is traditional that a Prime Minister does not announce the dates concerning an election until he has to do so. That is one of the tricks he keeps up his sleeve. In my experience of politics I would not expect that  Mr Whitlam  would be able to give those figures tonight He knew about the double dissolution only at 8.30 p.m. 
I believe that the Australian Government and the Party of which it is made up would be forever ashamed if they purposely called on the date for an election to stop a person who had given a prior indication of his intention to stand and who had been endorsed by a major political party from legally nominating. I believe that tonight all we want from  Senator Willesee,  whose word I trust, is an assurance that there will be more than 14 days from tonight before nominations for the Federal election of 1974 close. I think  Senator Wright  will agree with me that if we get that assurance tonight we can go on and put the measure through. I make no threat but I say that if any action were taken by this Government to stop Michael Hodgman from being a candidate for Denison by any underhand move the Government would more certainly lose the seat of Denison than it will now. Dumb Dora would win the seat from the Government if there were any dirt. I do not expect there to be any dirt. I think that  Senator Willesee  has paid attention to some of my remarks. I think he could give us a reply which would satisfy the situation. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate who represents the Minister for Transport. Will he obtain a statement for the Senate within a reasonable time giving details of all types of ships being purchased or constructed for the Australian Government, indicating the tonnage, estimated cost, projected date of delivery and the place of purchase or construction of each vessel? Will he also advise the Senate whether there are any shipbuilding yards in Australia not fully engaged in ship construction, refitting or repair? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. In view of the number of regulations and ordinances that have been gazetted during the period since the Australian Parliament was dissolved and as many more may be gazetted before the Parliament reassembles for the Budget session, will the Attorney-General assure the Senate that early action will be taken to reconstitute the Senate Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances so as to ensure that a proper and traditional examination shall be made of this subordinate legislation? 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General. In view of a judicial decision given in April of this year by  Mr Justice  Fox, the sagacity and correctness of which I do not doubt, that under current legislation a person apprehended on the retractable steps of a civil aircraft while carrying a gun is not guilty of an offence, will the Attorney-General give consideration to having the law amended so that such persons can be charged with an offence? 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. In respect of his Press statement of 10 June relating to a telephone bugging claim in Sydney, will the Attorney-General inform the Senate when he will receive a report from the investigation which he has ordered and when that report will be made public? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is he aware that up until 1 January 1974 all categories of medical practitioners were paid uniform fees for medical services rendered for the Australian Governmentthat is, for pensioners, repatriation patients, etc. -but now that the Department of Social Security has trespassed so much into the health care field, and as a result of the findings of an interdepartmental committee, different fees will be paid for similar medical services performed by doctors according to the State or Territory in which they live? As an example, a general practitioner in New South Wales and in the Territories will receive $14 an hour, a Tasmanian doctor will be paid only $1 1.50 an hour and in the other States doctors will receive $13 an hour. Will the Minister ask his colleague to inform the Senate on what basis this unfair discrimination is being enforced? Will he ask also why the new fees were not promulgated until June- last month- thus preventing an earlier protest on behalf of all the doctors who have been disadvantaged by this unfair administrative action since 1 January this year? 
-I ask leave of the Senate to seek a brief explanation of treaty No. 12. I wish to ask a question about a certain part of it. 
Can the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  advise us now as to what instructions the Government gave to the distribution commissioners in respect of the delineation of boundaries of the 19 electorates in the Northern Territory, or would it be preferable for him to arrange to have the documents tabled? 
I preface my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate by saying that earlier today he said that he hoped for nice days. My ambition is to try to make these nice days brighter with more sunlight. In view of the fact that the Premier of Tasmania, the Honourable Eric Reece M.H.A., is to seek the approval of other State Premiers to increase by 2 months the total period when daylight saving is observed, will the Minister draw this matter to the attention of the Prime Minister so that by his support the people of the Australian Capital Territory can also enjoy the benefits of this Tasmanian instigated move? 
-In resuming the debate on the second reading of the Northern Territory (Administration) Bill 1974 I remind the Senate that we are deciding now in this place whether the people of the Northern Territory will be given a fully elected Legislative Assembly on or about 24 October this year. The Bill before the Senate lays down that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for the Territory consisting of 19 members. In his second reading speech the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  said that the overwhelming bulk of evidence before the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory favoured a Legislative Assembly of from 19 to 25 members. In my opinion, 19 is the smallest practical number of members to have in a House of Parliament which is to have 5 Ministers, the normal presiding officers and other office bearers if we are to allow, as we must, for a certain number of private members or backbenchers and a viable opposition or group of independent members. Therefore there should be no criticism of the fact that the first Assembly mooted for the Northern Territory shall consist of what could be said to be the minimum number that is suitable for such a Parliament. 
The Bill then goes on to delete the right of the official or appointed members to sit in the Assembly. I feel certain that the appointed members will be pleased to be let off the chore of the extra work they had to do under trying circumstances as public servants and members of Parliament, but from my observations, they did their work very well. 
Another aspect of the Bill is that there are to be 5 Ministers who, with the Administrator will comprise the Administrator's Council. The second reading speech specifically states that the 
Administrator's Council is essentially an advisory body. To my way of thinking, this is another weakness in this legislation; I shall point out others as I go along. This legislation has been hastily conceived before the report of a committee of the Parliament was available to the writers of the legislation. If there is to be a Parliament- which surely must have powers- to which 5 Ministers will be appointed who, with the Administrator- who is like a governor- will act only in an advisory capacity, how can the Parliament legislate, administer and rule the people who have elected it? 
The Bill lays down that the first election of the Assembly shall be held on 24 October 1 974. This is the only reason why this Bill is being rushed in during this special session of the Parliament that was called to deal with 6 other Bills all of which have been dealt with. It will be practically impossible, if this Bill does not pass through the Senate this week, for the election to be held on 24 October. Nobody has made a promise that there will be an election by 24 October. All that was said on behalf of the Australian Labor Party during the 1972 election campaign was that if the ALP were elected to office, as it was, there would be self-government for the Northern Territory. True to its policy, it set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory in August 1973. On 20 September of that year that Committee, of which I am a member, held its first meeting. Because the work of the Committee was delayed considerably by the double dissolutionit would have been delayed in any case because a Senate election was to be held- because members of Parliament work on other committees and because Darwin, Alice Springs, Katherine and Tennant Creek are many miles away, not a great deal of progress could be made by the Committee in the period of 12 months since it started its work. 
The Government that set up the Committeewe first met in September 1973- literally decided on 12 March of this year that whatever we said in our report to the Parliament there would be a Legislative Assembly of 19 members. It instructed its officers to go ahead and draw up the boundaries of the electorates. The boundaries are not mentioned in the legislation before us nor in the Minister's second reading speech. However, the Government decided in March of this year what it would do. Now, before the Committee has had a chance to operate for 12 months, only to be fair to the people of the Northern Territory we are literally almost forced to agree to the passage of this BUI to set up this Legislative Assembly. 
The only other aspect of the Bill with which I want to deal is that it makes provision for a continuity of administration in between the time of the cessation of the term of office of the official members and the present elected members until the new Parliament is drawn up. It makes provision that all ordinances now in operation and those being registered or gazetted in the interim will have the force of law while the changeover is taking place. The second reading speech of the Minister for Agriculture, which had only one notable feature, namely its brevity, stated: 
The measure represents a major step forward in the constitutional development of the Northern Territory in conformity with Labor policy announced prior to the 1 972 elections. 
I point out that this was not mentioned in the policy speech of the present Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  in  1972.  That is the crux of the problem. In my belief, this is an illustration of how the Party that has come into office- I do not want to be provocative- has tried to do too much, too soon, too often, and has done too much, too badly. 
If I seem to be unfair in saying that the Government has acted too hastily, may I quote briefly from the 'Northern Territory News' of Wednesday,  24  July  1974-  my thirty-first wedding anniversary. The headline reads: 'Assembly? It's still a mystery', and the article states: 
The  President  of the Legislative Council,  Mr Tony  Greatorex, has still to be told how the Territory's proposed Legislative Assembly will be elected and work. 
He told Dr Goff Letts (Victoria) River) - 
He is an elected member-   in the council yesterday that he was still waiting for the information from the Minister for the Northern Territory,  Dr Rex  Patterson. 
That is the situation in the Territory in regard to the putting into effect of the provisions of this Bill. The Territorians can say: They know not what they do. 
I do not want in any way to prophesy or give opinions about what matters and in what way our Committee will report. But I think that it is only fair to the Senate that I should give my impressions and reactions as a member of the Committee to what has thus far transpired with the Committee. I believe that a very small proportion of the population is vitally interested in the election of a Legislative Assembly. Officers of Australian Government departments with great consistency gave evidence- we were assured in most cases that their Ministers had seen their submissions- advocating an elected House of Assembly for the Territory, adding with emphasis, 'But we should not give any of our powers away. ' I find it hard to understand how greater self-government can come to the Territory if departments of the Australian Government are still to maintain the powers they have now. 
Members of the departments of the Northern Territory fear that they will not be given sufficient powers. They feel that the time lag in decision making because of references to Canberra will still be one of their greatest frustrations and causes of maladministration. There is a serious problem that is not touched on in the Minister's second reading speech or referred to in the Bill. It relates to both the number and the manner of election of Aboriginal representatives in the Territory. In my belief it is absolutely essential to decide upon the number of Aboriginal representatives, the means by which they are to be elected and from what areas they are to come. I do not want to encroach upon the work of the Committee, but that is my view. 
The Government has said that it has taken the first step of setting up the boundaries, but it has not told us where they are to be. There are to be  19  electorates but no mention has been made of Aboriginal electorates or of the type of electorates. The Government has not stated which voting system will be used to elect members. As the evidence of the Committee is open for public and departmental scrutiny it would be well and truly known that a number of systems for division of electorates and for voting for members have been put forward and should be given serious consideration, as happened with the Committee. 
The measure and the second reading speech make no reference to local government. I express, more as a warning to the Government, my personal wish that no action be taken to cut down on the powers of local or municipal government in the Territory. Those powers must be allowed to grow in the Territory as they have grown in the States. The facts are, as I see them, that  the  election is to be held on  24  October, the reason mainly being because the Minister took as fact that the elected members would resign if there was not an elected Assembly by the end of this year. Those threats were made publicly and to the Committee by a number but not all of the elected members. They were sincere in their desire to force the Government into action because they believed that they should not go on holding office for a longer period than that for which they had been elected. 
I am confident of  2  things, the first of which is that if the Minister or Ministers had talked to those members in a reasonable way and had given some assurance early in the new year sufficient of them would have said: 'Right, we will co-operate to keep our present Parliament going while the Committee reports and the Government decides its full policy on the Committee's recommendations.' In any case, there would have been a quorum of the House available for it to carry out its normal legislative activities had the Minister or the Government waited for the Committee's report, as should have happened. We did not set ourselves up. Both Houses of this Parliament at the behest of the Government set up the Committee with the one proviso that we inquire into and report on means by which there shall be appointed or elected a Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. We have been doing what the Government asked us to do. Before we have had a chance to complete our task the Government has taken action. What worries me about it quite sincerelyit has nothing to do with the Committee; I will come to that later- is that the hurried action that is to be taken will make the changeover period from partial self-government to selfgovernment in some other form much longer, more frustrating and more hazardous so far as ultimate success is concerned. 
Administrative problems will be created for the territorians, their public servants and Commonwealth public servants who will be neither this nor that in respect of powers. Problems will arise for the taxpayers who will want information, just as difficulties will be caused in respect of the general services provided by public servants, State or Commonwealth. All these people will have greater problems, greater complexes and greater frustration because of this Government's hasty and unwise activity. I do not in any way decry or deny the right and the wisdom of moving the Territory to self-government. I see that some years ahead the Northern Territory will become a State with full sovereign rights as a State, but not just yet. There is a population of about 100,000 in the Northern Territory and the number is rising, even under this Government, at the rate of about 5 per cent a year. In area it covers about one-sixth of the mainland island of Australia. It is rich in almost all potentials of primary and secondary industries and mining. It has a great future. 
Our responsibility as a national Parliament is to aid and guide the Territory to self-government but we are not showing much ability at aiding and guiding when, in my view, we are literally forced into getting legislation through to bring into operation a House of Assembly that will have no power and no guidelines. Between the time that the Legislative Assembly first meets and the time that the Government issues its opinion of the Committee's recommendations the only work that the Assembly will have to do will be to keep in contact with the Government, to put up its ideas as to the type of power, work and responsibility that it feels Canberra should hand over. 
I wonder where the power of veto will rest. Will it be in Canberra, as it is now? If so, I believe that this will not be a great step forward for the people of the Northern Territory and selfgovernment in the real sense of the term should Canberra hold the power of veto as it grasps it at present. I believe that there would be little or no progress. What is to be the added financial burden to the taxpayers of the Territory who now enjoy, for instance, a zone allowance? Who is to call an election? How long will the period of office last? From whom will the powers flow? I do not want to be provocative but I wish to pose a question. If as the result of the election on 24 October there is a majority of non-Labor members of the Assembly, will the Government clamp down and say: 'Right, you are not of our political colour. Therefore we will drown you at birth or keep you restrained*? Conversely, if there is an election that returns a majority of Labor members, will the Government say: Righto boys, here are the jobs for you to do. This is what we will let you do '? 
This Bill will pass into law because the Opposition is supporting it for some of the reasons that I have outlined. Only history will tell whether this legislation will be a success or a failure when it passes into law. But I want to give my view as a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory of the result of this legislative action by the Government. I believe that we members of the Committee should theoretically close our eyes to the fact that this legislation has become law, that there will be an election and that there will be an elected Legislative Assembly. We should carry on taking our evidence, weighing it, reporting it and making our recommendations without fear or favour regardless of what is or is not Government policy. Then it will be up to the Government to act on the recommendations of the Committee as is its right and duty. As a senator who has had much experience on committees of this Parliament, I am not one who believes that because a committee of the Parliament reports certain recommendations the Government of the day must carry them out. Committees are established only to guide, educate, advise and to some extent influence governments, not to be their masters. Therefore I sincerely hope, because the people of the Northern Territory deserve a good future, that out of a misty nothing, which this Bill is, some worthwhile parliamentary form of government will arise. The possibilities and probabilities for the Territory and the type of government that it will have are unknown and unlimited. The jockeying for positions between and within departments will understandably and rightly continue. In fact, I believe it will increase because of the action of the Government in bringing in legislation to elect a parliament when it does not know what that parliament will do, how it will do it or where or when it will do it. With those words I support the Bill. 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate of the total monetary asistance given by the Australian Government and any of its instrumentalities to the Government of North Vietnam to 30 June 1974? 
I am not going to oppose this motion, but I believe it would be of very great assistance if the Manager of Government Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  were to say- I do not expect him to do so at this moment and I am only just going to ask him about the matter and I know that he has the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  Cabinet and Caucus with whom to contend- before the Senate rises tonight, knowing how busy all of us are and how the chairmen of parliamentary committees want to get on with their committee work: 'We presume that we will be resuming on 13 August and it is the intention of the Government to conclude this period of the session early in September' or, following the leak to the 'Australian'- 'We will sit right through  until Christmas'. I have raised a very important point. I know that the chairmen of parliamentary committees just have to say at present: 'We hope to be able to sit at some time in the future but we do not have a clue when we are going to be able to do so'. For those reasons I hope that every effort will be made to tell the Parliament when it is going to sit and when it will be in recess. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that carpet layers were sent to the Australian Embassy in Peking because, for security reasons, local tradesmen could not be employed to lay carpets in the Australian Embassy and staff apartments? How many Chinese nationals are employed in the Australian Embassy in Peking and how many are employed by Australian staff in their apartments? Has the Minister any knowledge of any other of our embassies where local tradesmen, for security reasons, would not be employed to lay carpets? What countries which have embassies in Canberra import their tradesment to lay carpets in their Canberra offices and residences? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I find myself in what is for me the strange role of carrying on a tradition initiated by the Labor Party. Will the Minister representing the Minister for Defence arrange to table the manifests of the Royal Australian Air Force Squadron 34, the VIP squadron, from the day details were last given to the Parliament up until 31 July 1974? 
I regret to say that my Tasmanian colleague has drawn me into this debate because I think he has deepened the mystery that has been in my mind through all the preliminaries before this Bill reached this place. I have all the Press cuttings of statements by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones).  This upper House of review of the national Parliament is legislating to put into law the words that are in the Bill. We are not putting into law any Press statements, any ideas, any indications, any promises or any lack of promises. They are worth nothing once a Bill is given royal assent. The clause of the Bill we are discussing states: 
A Minister may notify - 
I should like one of our legal people to confirm or deny later whether the words ' may notify ' means will notify'. I believe that is so in the Acts Interpretation Act. I will not argue on that point. The clause states: 
A Minister may notify a State the date before which a program of projects in respect of a period to which this section applies, being projects of a specified kind, is to be submitted to him for approval, and may, in the notice, inform the State that the program should include all the projects of that kind that are to be carried out by the State and by municipal, shire and other local authorities in that period. 
That is what is stated in the Bill. Like  Senator Devitt,  I have a copy of a document in my hand. Quite frankly, I know not from where it came. It is typewritten and is headed 'New Road Arrangements- Statement by the Honourable C. K. Jones, M.P., Minister for Transport'. The pages are numbered but the document carries no date. Attached to it is a copy of what is presumably a letter. It is headed 'Sydney' and commences 'Dear  Mr Whitlam'.  It is indicated at the end of the letter that it is addressed to "The  Hon.  E. G. Whitlam, Q.C., M.P., Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia'. The letter is signed 'Yours faithfully, C. B. Cutler, Acting Premier and Treasurer'. The letter is also undated. As  Senator Devitt  read out to us, the document says: 
The Bill in clause 4 ( 1 ), provides that the Australian Government may require the States and local government to submit for Australian Government approval programs of road works financed from their own resources. 
That refers to roads constructed by State and local governments from their own financial resources. A further statement on page 2 of the Minister's statement makes me feel more suspicious. Do not forget that State and local governments are under threat if the Senate dares to amend this Bill. We are told that the Senate's rejection of this Bill would mean that State and local government would receive no money and that such an action would also cause unemployment. Yet we know that the States have received money up until, I think, the end of October. This adds to the mystery and makes me more desirous of seeing this clause deleted from the Bill. The Minister is saying in the statement: 
The provisions I refer to - 
That is, the provisions of the Bill- 
. however, are not mandatory and it may help the Parliament in its consideration of the Bill if I indicate the manner in which it is intended they may be administered. 
The honourable  Mr Charles  Jones may be the greatest Minister for Transport, as formerly we were told that we had the greatest Foreign Affairs Minister, but  Mr Jones  may not be the Minister for Transport tomorrow. Another member of the Australian Labor Caucus may be the Minister. Is that member of Caucus or a Minister from a Liberal-Country Party government going to be bound by this undated Press statement which, it is claimed, may help the Parliament in its consideration of the Bill? The paragraph which I have quoted concludes by stating: 
This should also clear up some of the misunderstanding that may exist in the minds of State and local government. 
In effect, what that means is that since the legislation was promulgated and pushed through the House of Representatives there has been uproar throughout the States from State governments, Opposition parties, local government and shire councils. The Minister issued his threat. But he knows that the Senate will not take notice of any threats. As  Senator Durack  said yesterday, we had threats about the Airlines Agreement Bill. We took no notice of any threats and we won the day. I hope that the Senate will rise above threats because we should not pass legislation which the Minister has the cheek to say how he may administer it if it becomes law. He will have to administer it in the way set out in the Act of Parliament. That is why the clause should be rejected. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is it a fact, as reported in the 'Canberra Times' on Tuesday, 17 September, that about 400 workers at the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation in Melbourne will lose their jobs in the next 2 years? Is it also a fact that Australia was conspicious by its absence from this year's international air show at Farnborough and as a result has lost an opportunity to gain a $15m order from a Pacific country wanting an aircraft with the capabilities of the Australian designed Nomad? Is the Government not interested in maintaining our defence factories in production now that less money is being spent on defence hardware? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Science. Will he inquire from his colleague and inform the Senate as soon as possible whether the purchase of land at Kingston in southern Tasmania for the construction of an Antarctic research base has been completed? If so, is it known whether and when construction of the base will be commenced? 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture who represents the Treasurer in the Senate. If the Minister has not the information with him, will he obtain a ruling from the Treasurer as to whether it is true that the super tax on unearned income will not be levied on persons receiving superannuation payments but will be levied on the incomes of formerly self-employed persons who are living on the interest from their personal savings and investments. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Agriculture who represents the Treasurer in the Senate, so that we can get an answer on this business of the devaluation of the Australian currency. Is it a fact that the official news release concerning the devaluation of the Australian dollar was distributed to the parliamentary Press Gallery at 5.55 a.m. today? Has the Minister seen this morning's issue of the Melbourne 'Sun' whose front page story forecasts precisely the decision that was later officially announced? Is it not a fact that for the Melbourne 'Sun' to publish this story on the front page of its edition which was available in Canberra early this morning, the news must have been sent by its writer,  Mr Laurie  Oakes, by at least 9.30 p.m. last night? Does this indicate that someone in Cabinet or an official leaked this important financial change of policy whilst overseas money markets were still operating? Is an inquiry into this serious breach of governmental and parliamentary tradition to be promised to this Parliament? 
Is leave granted? There being no objection, it is so ordered. 
In clauses 4,5, 13, 14 and 15, omit the words: 'or a prescribed legislative or advisory body for another Territory'. 
In clauses 7, 8, 9 and 10 omit the words: 'or a legislative or advisory body for another Territory prescribed for the purposes of Section 47c of the Public Service Act 1922-1974'. 
In clause 12, omit the words: 'certain other legislative or advisory Bodies'. Substitute the following: 'the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory. ' 
In clauses 1 7 and 1 8, omit the words: 'or a legislative or advisory body for another Territory prescribed for the purposes of section 7 of the Defence (Parliamentary Candidates) Act 1969-1974'. 
The Opposition looked at this closely in the time we had available. As I said, we would have liked to have the opportunity of talking about it but we have not had the time. We welcome the opportunity for the Committee to adopt these amendments. I accept, as the Attorney-General said, the principle with which the Bill is concerned. It is a good principle yet in the case of the Commonwealth Parliament it is something which is prohibited by the Constitution unless the principle is acknowledged. I mention that only to indicate that it is not an unimportant principle. We believe that if there is to be an application of this provision in the future it ought to be done by legislation and not left to be done by regulation. I mentioned earlier in the debate the situation in the Australian Capital Territory and on Norfolk Island simply because they are the only other relevant territories. This provision can have no application either to the Australian Capital Territory or Norfolk Island unless legislation or another ordinance is introduced. If another ordinance were to be introduced it would be a very significant policy matter which is covered by the ordinance. We believe that rather than leave the matter obscure to be dealt with by regulation at some stage in the future the whole question ought to be dealt with at one and the same time by legislation. They are the considerations that we advance. We think it is consistent with the view that the Senate has generally taken in the past to do it this way. 

 - Mr President, my question is addressed to you for your consideration and, if you consider it worthwhile, for reference to the Standing Orders Committee of the Senate. Because of the number of ministerial statements given during the now limited period of question time, the traditional use of which is for honourable senators to seek information rather than for Ministers to arrange propaganda plugs, will you consider suggesting changes to the procedures of the Senate to permit, say, the first 15 minutes of this period each day being devoted to ministerial statements and this to be followed by the customary, or should I say former, normal question and answer period? This would save the time and energy used by Government senators in putting their prepared questions to Ministers. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As Australian pensioners are granted various travel concessions, such as the pensioners in Tasmania being able to travel to Victoria on the Australian National Line ship Empress of Australia' by paying 50 per cent of the normal fare, will the Minister ask his colleague, the Minister for Transport, to consider some form of financial subsidy to enable pensioners on King Island and Flinders Island in Bass Strait, where the cost of living is high, to travel at least once a year to either Melbourne or a Tasmanian airport? 
-I rise to speak briefly to this motion because, with all the sincerity that I can command, I believe that we are not merely debating whether certain committees should be set up; we are debating a motion which unfortunately on this occasion has been moved by the Opposition. We will make a decision which I believe will have an effect on the stature of the Senate, of the Parliament as a whole as a corporate body, of the present Government and of any future government which tries to evade scrutiny of its revenue and expenditure by not allowing the Parliament to set up machinery to undertake that scrutiny. Surely it is realised that the Parliament has 2 responsibilities. The first is to inform the people, and it cannot inform the people if it does not provide the machinery to do so and if members of Parliament are not themselves informed. We have a bicameral system of government to help that information to flow to the people. In order that legislation cannot be passed in the dead of the night and become law, there must be a delay before that legislation reaches the upper chamber or the House of review. Newspapers are published and there is radio and television. It is not a political secret, but it is known that during the period when the Liberal-Country Party coalition was in power, when urgent, important or controversial matters came before the Cabinet the Prime Minister or whoever was in charge of a particular measure would say- I hope to see my friend and colleague  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson nod his head in agreement with meThis is all right, but what is the Senate going to do? What is the Senate's attitude going to be in respect of this? Will we be able to make regulations under this legislation, or do we have to spell it out?' So Bills were shaped so that they would meet what were thought to be the wishes of the Senate. This is a responsibility of Parliament and of the Cabinet, and it flows through to the committees of the Parliament and to the review of the estimates of expenditure for the current financial year. 
I believe that if, by any mischance, this motion is defeated and the Estimates Committees do not operate during the life of this Government, we will be taking away a certain element of responsibility that is on Cabinet Ministers, their advisers and the public servants who also work and advise the Ministers, the Cabinet and the Government. They will be aware that there will not be this close examination of the Estimates. They will be aware that they will not have to prepare and provide to all members of the Parliament details and explanations as to how the money is to be expended. If we set up these Estimates Committees the Ministers and all those concerned with formulating and placing the Estimates before the Parliament will be aware that they will have to have the answers, the reasons and the explanations for Parliament and for the people and that that information will be made available either through Hansard or through representatives of the media who, as  Senator Webster  said, are allowed to attend hearings of the Estimates Committees. 
As my Leader,  Senator Withers,  has said, the great fault with the old fashioned system of dealing with the Estimates in the Committee of the Whole will be made much worse if we do not set up these Estimates Committees. The fault was, as he said, with the Ministers, particularly those Ministers who represented as many as 4 Ministers from another place. They could not possibly have a grasp of the estimates for all of those departments, all of those items. I saw them sit there with their ears cocked, only one adviser, or two at the most, being able to contact them. An honourable senator would ask a question and the Minister would be handed a scribbled note or a reply would be whispered to him. One could not help feeling sorry and embarrassed- as a Government member I felt completely embarrassed many a time- at the lack of correct information, candid information, available to either government or opposition members on the estimates. That situation will be much worse now that we have 27 government departments and a far greater amount of money involved which comes under many more headings. We are a developing nation and we have to deal with a greater volume of estimates. 
Another fault with the debates in the Committee of the Whole was that honourable senators I have to admit that I agree with this- be they Ministers or backbenchers, could not be expected to sit in this chamber hour after hour listening to the proceedings. There are other duties to be performed and other work to be done. When the departmental estimates are being considered by the Committee of the Whole no honourable senator knows at what time of day, or on what day of the Estimates debate, the particular item or items on which he wants to speak will come before the Chair. It may happen that half a dozen honourable senators from either side who want to deal with, say, the defence estimates are. not in the chamber at the time when the defence estimates are called on because the estimates of the department being considered beforehand went through very quickly. The defence estimates will then go through very quickly also and we will be laughed at by the people and by the media because we allowed to go through with a twinkling of an eye and without discussion the very important defence estimates which involve thousands of millions of dollars. So those honourable senators who want to deal with a particular subject may have to wait hour after hour because, as has been pointed out, each  speaker  is allowed 1 5 minutes in which to make- this often happens- a second class, second reading speech on the item before the Chair. 
It is a farce to say- it would be a bigger farce today- that the Committee of the Whole, consiting of 60 people, can deal faithfully and responsibly with an examination of the estimates of a department. I am one of the few honourable senators who has been privileged to sit at both ends of the table. I have acted as  chairman  and I have appeared in the capacity of Assistant Minister on behalf of the then Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. I have sat as a backbencher and examined witnesses and possibly argued with the  chairman.  I have found that a lot of useful information- that is, useful to the electorate- has been obtained in the Committees by the Ministers allowing their advisers to come forward and give truthfully their detailed knowledge of those matters in which they are so expert. 
I know that I may have even be laughed at for saying that we should consider the public servants, but I believe that we should. The Estimates Committees suit the public servants much better. I know that many of them have to come from interstate when the Estimates are being considered, but if particular public servants know that they are involved with an examination of the estimates for a department which is to be dealt with by Estimates Committee A and if that Estimates Committee is rostered for 2 successive days, or whatever it may be, they know that they will be required at that time. But the Government may mismanage the hearings of the Estimates Committees as it did last time by changing the times and days of meeting. 
But if the Estimates are considered by the Committee of the Whole it may be- it has been the case quite often in the past- that public servants will be herded almost like cattle and be required to wait without seating accommodation in the narrow confines of the corridors of Parliament House day after day until perhaps 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock at night and still not be called upon. I believe that such a practice is a farce and it is an insult. We must have too many public servants if they can rightfully be spared from their duties for so long. But I know that they cannot. After being subjected to this embarrassment and frustration they have had to go back to their offices and work hours of overtime in order to catch up on their work. I do not want to go into any more detail, but I ask the Government, if it has made a decision as a Party to oppose the setting up of Estimates Committees, to think seriously again, because by refusing to set up Estimates Committees it will be doing great harm to itself. God alone knows that it is doing enough harm to itself already. The Government should give itself a break. It will be doing great harm to the Parliament and it will bring no honour whatever to any of its members who vote against this motion. 

 -Mr Deputy President, by calling  Senator Walsh  to order you have saved us from having the wool pulled over our eyes any more. I start my speech by congratulating my Tasmanian colleague  Senator Eric  Bessell on his maiden speech in the Senate tonight. In the Senate we have had the privilege of listening to all 15 new honourable senators who grace this chamber as a result of the election which was held because of the double dissolution of Parliament. Before I get on to the main subject matter of my speech on the Budget papers I congratulate the PostmasterGeneral  (Senator Bishop)  on whom I do not place one cent of criticism for the parlous state of the postal services in Australia today. Nor do I believe that  Senator Bishop,  as PostmasterGeneral, would have had anything to do with the design of the 10c stamp which came into operation yesterday. 
There has been a rise of 3c in the cost of postage of an ordinary letter by virtue of the work of this Government in its inflationary period. I am not sure whether the design of the stamp indicates a sense of humour on the part of public servants who asked for designs, whether it is a cynical approach of the Government's attitude towards taxpayers or whether it is a happy coincidence. The 10c stamp which we are all buying to mark this movement into double figures cost for an ordinary letter under Labor has a picture of an old fashioned water pump and the title Pioneer Water'. This indicates the achievement of the hope of the Australian Labor Party to pump the last cent which it possibly can out of Australian taxpayers during the brief time it will be in office as the Australian Government. 
What I like about the debate on the Budget and other general debates in the Senate is that they give me a chance to indicate my sincere belief that the Senate is a States House. I say it is a States House because in this debate honourable senators are able to speak on any aspect or any problem which is confronting or harrassing the electors of the State from which they come. In the party rooms- I have never been in Caucus but I can understand- I know that honourable senators from the States can get together in voicing opinions. They can have some influence on their executive or the shadow executive. I know that in party policy committee meetings we have a chance as State representatives to put the view of out State rather than the view of an electoral division. As you know,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  in the committees of the Parliament a State's views can be put. This has been proved by the honourable senators from Tasmania. A matter pertaining to the importance of shipping betwen the Bass Strait islands and the mainland was referred to a Senate select committee because of the initiative of my colleagues  Senator Wright  and  Senator Rae. 
Because this is a States House I propose to add a little more to what  Senator Eric  Bessell said in respect of two or three major problems confronting the people of Tasmania. Quite honestly, 1 believe it is fair to say that Tasmania with all its wealth, all its beauty, all its initiative and all its knowhow at the moment is a beleaguered island. It is an island under seige in 3 respects. Firstly, and most importantly- this is most damaging- it is under seige because of the chaos in shipping. Secondly, it is under seige because of the harm done by the tariff cuts to the textile industry and because of the lack of action against inflation. One may add, in truth, that this is because of action taken by this Government to inflame inflation. Thirdly, and quite importantly to Tasmania, as was proved at the last election by the reaction of the electors, Tasmania is under seige because of the harm done to rural industries in under 2 years by this Government.  Senator Bessell  with his expertise and knowledge of freights gave a picture of shipping which I hope departmental heads will precis and give to their relevant Ministers. 
Because of the serious situation caused to Tasmania and the other States by shipping I shall set into the record some of the main statements, promises, platitudes and criticisms which have been made in recent weeks by other men in public life. I commence by saying that the gravest causes of the problems of shipping to Tasmania are strikes and industrial unrest. The greatest of these is the demarcation dispute. I think that any sincere trade unionist would say that demarcation disputes are the most unfortunate happenings in trade union circles in recent years. Anything that can be done by anybody in Parliament to try to overcome demarcation disputes will help the whole of Australia 's economy. 
You may have tried. Another aspect to which I want to refer is the uncertainty of sailings of the ships with both cargo and passenger traffic. In relation to the passenger services I say that industrial disputes and the uncertainty of sailings are killing the passenger trade across the Bass Strait. The killing of the passenger trade is harming the tourist industry between Tasmania and other States. None of these things are problems to Tasmania only. We buy and sell on the Australian market. The people from whom we buy and to whom we sell on the Australian mainland market are affected by the shipping problems which we have. The costs of transport are going along with galloping inflation. On 5 September honourable senators and members from the House of Representatives from Tasmania met the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)-  I honour him- who came to Launceston and received a deputation of Tasmanian Federal members on the problems confronting our State. On the next day, 6 September, we read in the Hobart 'Mercury ': 
The Australian Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  told State and Federal parliamentarians at Launceston yesterday that ANL and Union Steamship Company vessels coming on to the Australian trade early next year would make a very decided impact on Tasmania 's shipping problem. 

 Mr Jones said the Government was prepared to make sure Tasmania had adequate tonnage to cope with its expansion. 
To me', said  Mr Jones,  'It is one of the important pieces of transport in Australia today.' 
That is what  Mr Jones  said to the Press after hearing a deputation which was talking about instant cures which were required- not about what would happen next year if all the fairies came good. On 12 September the official news was released by the Minister for Transport. The first short paragraph states: 
The Australian Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  today defended the action of the Government in authorising freight increases by the Australian National Line. 
Not a word to Bessie about 5 September or the Tasmanian parliamentarians. On 10 September the line announced increases of 25 per cent in coastal general cargo freight rates, 10 per cent in passenger fares and accompanied vehicle rates from Tasmania to Sydney and 15 per cent for Bass Strait. I am glad to say that this proved to Tasmanians and the other Australian people how quick our parliamentary leader  Mr Snedden  is to see what wrong is being done. On 1 3 September he issued the following press statement: 
The Labor Government has again demonstrated its callous disregard for Tasmania by announcing an increase in ANL shipping charges. 
A little later in the statement he rightly reminded the electors of Tasmania about the promises made by Labor before the last election. The electors of Tasmania could become very important in the next federal elections as 5 seats will be coming up for the taking by the Opposition parties from members now representing them who have grown old and lazy.  Mr Snedden  said: 
During his long period as Leader of the Opposition  Mr Whitlam  was fond of telling Tasmanians that a federal Labor Government would treat Bass Strait as the road link to Tasmania. 
It is a road that has no ending and no enchantment to travel on while a federal Labor Government remains in power.  Mr Bingham  is the very progressive, personable and brilliant Leader of the Parliamentary Liberal Party in Tasmania. On 14 September he broadcast to Tasmanians and after wishing them good afternoon he said: 
Tasmanians are sick and tired of the unending delays in granting simple justice to their State in the matter of freight costs between this island and the rest of Australia. The Whitlam Government stands condemned of the most flagrant breaches of its pre-election promises to equalise the rates for Tasmanian freight with those applicable to those on the mainland. 
The message from Messrs Snedden and Bingham got through some of the 20 staff of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  now staying at the Plaza Hotel, New York. On 19 September he issued a statement which said: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, announced tonight that the Australian Government will make an immediate reassessment of the Australian National Line freight rates to and from Tasmania. 
Long before that date, because of the goading of Tasmanian federal members of Parliament the Government set up the Nimmo Committee of Inquiry. While that was in progress up went the rates as announced by  Mr Jones,  the Minister for Transport. About six or seven days later- the Nimmo Committee was still making its inquiries- the Prime Minister announced that there would be a reassessment of the Bass Strait rates. Last weekend  Dr Cairns,  on a trial run for Acting Prime Minister before going to see Chou En-lai with his family and others in a VIP aircraft, visited Tasmania. Whilst there he promised, as it were, a $2m subsidy to the Tasmanian people. However, when it is examined closely it is seen to be a temporary matter and not a payment of money to the ANL to reduce rates. It is apparently to hold the rates at the old level for northbound cargo. There is nothing to help Tasmanians who have to purchase the goods brought in by ship or aircraft.  Dr Cairns  took a backhanded sort of way of helping and I do not think that the people of Tasmania woke up to it until  Mr Bonney,  our shadow Minister in the State Parliament, said as reported in the Hobart 'Mercury' of 30 September: 
The freight subsidy announced by the Acting Prime Minister  (Dr Cairns)  did nothing to resolve Tasmania's tremendous disadvantage . . . The subsidy will be welcomed and while it may be seen as something of a rebuff to the inflexible attitude adopted by the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  it will have no lasting effect. 
On the same day the 'Mercury' said in a leading article: 
But regardless of the motive, the decision to stay the increase in ANL freight rates until the latest transport inquiry is completed is worth more to the Tasmanian economy than the cost to the ANL or the Government. The direct benefit has been estimated as the equivalent of a subsidy of $2m . . . However, Tasmanian business and industry should not regard the Commonwealth gesture as the solution to the State 's transport problems. 
The 'Mercury' goes on to hope that something real and not simply as a palliative will be done to overcome the shipping problems. We have had some publicity in all the States as the result of the Acting Prime Minister's visit to Tasmania. On that trip he cast a doubt in the minds of people in rural industries interested in the superphosphate bounty about whether the Government will remove the bounty and if so, when and how. But he did admit that it was a mistake or a blunder. Different newspapers used different words in reporting his speech. Until that doubt is resolved people in the rural industries will be very troubled. If there is one problem greater than another facing the Australian people while the present Government is in power it is the varying policy statements either in the Budget or by Ministers. As soon as a Minister gets out of Canberra past Queanbeyan or Yass and faces a television commentator, radio journalist or Press man he makes a statement. Promptly another Minister offers doubts about the wisdom and viability of the policy statement that has been made. The Australian taxpayer does not know whether the 15-day-old Budget is a fizzer or a goer or is to be repaired or replaced. 
I remind honourable senators of the cruel, thoughtless and harmful tax on unearned income which was wiped out many years ago but reintroduced by this Government. I do not know whether the perpetrators thought about it properly or whether it was a sudden, nasty thought in a moment of bad temper. I am aware that Caucus is making changes, that the Economic Committee of Caucus is going to make further changes and various Ministers are saying that it ought to be wiped out. Newspaper editorials are saying that it must be removed. The taxpayers do not know what is happening but they do know that unless some remedial action is taken by the Government in respect of the tax on unearned income, any employee or self-employed person who has put money into a savings bank to earn interest against a time of sickness or need is to have a 10 per cent tax placed on the interest on those savings. This is at a time when the Government, if it had any common sense and any economic values and if it wanted to be honest with the people, would be doing everything in its power to encourage the saving of money. It would not be putting up interest rates. The Government will want extra money in bonds to spend on the development of this country, but from the way in which the Government is acting I believe that it is fair and honest to say that if all the budgetary proposals of the 17 September document are put into legislative form literally hundreds of thousands, if not million.;, of dollars will leave Australia because of the cruel tax on unearned income. 
The weekly, monthly or annual amounts paid to a public servant, a parliamentarian or any other person who has decided to have superannuation paid on retirement will be taxed as earned income, I understand. I am waiting for an official answer, but I actually knew it before I asked the question. That is a trick which is sometimes used in politics. Many people in private enterprise who are in a superannuation scheme, on retirement at the age that they and their employers have chosen for their retirement, are paid a lump sum. Their fund payments and their employers fund payments have been based on the stated age of retirement. This is the freedom of private enterprise which all of us cherish. They are paid a lump sum to invest as they think will best benefit themselves and their family responsibilities in their old age. If Caucus allows the Government to impose this tax, the Government will tax the interest payments on those investments as unearned income and will tax the payment of the lump sum as a capital gain. This will not help the top 40 in wealth or income. This will hurt the ordinary man and woman. These days it is most essential to bring women into the calculation because a very big percentage of the work force is women, and they will be hit- stunned would be a better word- by this tax on unearned income if Caucus permits it to be brought into legislative form in the next few weeks. 

 Mr President, you have represented Tasmania, particularly the northern part, for longer than anyone else in this current Senate has represented any State. You know the hardship and the despair that has hit the people of Launceston and northern Tasmania because of the 25 per cent tariff cut which has hurt the textile industry. There have been arguments about the number of unemployed. At a Press conference last month the Prime Minister, when representations had been made to him by  Mr W.  C. S. Oliver, the Secretary of the Northern Tasmania Development League, quibbled about whether 340 or 360 people may be or were out of work.  Mr Burgess  of the textile organisation,  Mr Oliver  and others said that 900 were threatened with unemployment and would be unemployed.  Mr Barnard,  the member for Bass, the ex-Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence, for the first time to my knowledge in a long and loyal career went out from under the Prime Minister and said in front of his Tasmanian colleagues, I believe, that if  Mr Whitlam  had read the second page of the report he would have found that the figure was 900.  Mr Barnard  used the word disemployment'. I do not know what difference there is in Labor circles between disemployment and unemployment. All I know is that in good hard Australian language it means that they will have no work to do and no income. If they have any money in the bank they will be taxed on the interest. 
These are the problems facing Tasmania at present. No wonder the people are upset. No wonder there is an air of serious despair. It is more loathsome and pitiable because of an advertisement which appeared prior to the 1 8 May 1974 election as a result of the double dissolution. I refer to an advertisement from the 'Mercury' of Tuesday, 14 May 1974. It is a full page advertisement snowing  Mr Fluffy.  It states: 
Only Whitlam will reduce Home Interest Rates by 3 per cent. 
If anyone can prove to me that interest rates have been reduced by 3 per cent or 1 per cent by the Commonwealth Government or through any of its efforts, I will apologise. I believe that when the advertisement was placed in the newspaper it was known to be a fabrication- a premeditated fabrication. The then  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  the member for Bass, authorised in the week prior to the election an advertisement which stated: 
Snedden Threatens Your Job. 
One truth that could come out of that advertisement is that caucus took  Mr Barnard's  job away from him.  Mr Barnard  was the man who advertised to try to put fear into the minds of the work force, the people and the electors in Tasmania by saying: 
Snedden Threatens Your Job. 
He did not have the courtesy to say:  'Mr'. We  are used to that sort of ill mannered attitude. Long before I knew I would use this advertisement in the Budget debate and before the election was held I had written in my own fair hand on this advertisement which was authorised by  Mr Barnard,  'Snedden and Anthony threaten our job', because I thought and hoped that the Liberal and Country Parties would come back into power on 18 May. 
I close by saying that never in my 21 years in this Parliament have I found so much of real importance to talk about and to expose in the frailties, wrongs and harm of this Government. Because of that I have great fears of the outcome if the Government presses relentlessly on with its fifteen or sixteen day old budgetary proposals. I support the amendment that was so ably moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers). 
Has the attention of the learned Attorney-General been drawn to the scathing criticism made by  Mr H.  E. Cosgrove, Q.C., Tasmanian Crown Advocate, in a paper tabled in the Tasmanian Parliament on Wednesday, 21 August, concerning unfair advantages appertaining to the Commonwealth in marine courts of inquiry? If the Attorney has examined the statement will he advise the Senate of his reactions to it and state whether  Mr Cosgrove  's advice to the Tasmanian Government not to take part in any future inquiries of a marine court is fair and reasonable? If the Minister thinks it is, what does he intend to do to improve the situation? 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs inform the Senate whether any formal discussions have taken place between either the Prime Minister or himself and any members of the Indonesian Government in respect of any action being taken in Indonesia in the cause of human rights to release political prisoners who, it is widely alleged, have been imprisoned without trial over a number of years? If discussions have taken place what effect do they appear to have had? 
I understand that the Government wants a cognate debate on the Australian Tourist Commission Bill 1974 and the Commonwealth Banks Bill 1974. 
I rise to speak on a subject which we have had time to learn about- to read about and to make up our mind on the views we hold on it. I would have thought that every honourable senator has views on the tourist industry and the national banking corporation. I understand that the Government desires a speedy passage of these Bills to get on with the job. I will co-operate with the Government although I would have enjoyed the privilege of addressing the Senate on certain aspects of tourism which I believe need to be given great stimulus in this country. These 2 Bills are important in one respect. The first Bill is the Australian Tourist Commission Bill 1974. The kernel of the amending legislation is that section 15 of the principal Act is deleted and the following section substituted: 
IS. The Commission is established for the purpose of the encouragement- 
of visits to Australia by people from other countries, and 
b) of travel in Australia, including travel by people from other countries. 
As you,  Mr President,  would be aware, prior to this legislation the duties of the Australian Tourist Commission were to encourage and promote visits by overseas tourists to this country. This legislation will allow an enlarged Commission to promote and encourage travel within Australia. Any government or organisation that will help Australians to know Australia rather than going overseas for their fun, I think, is doing a worthwhile job. The more we know of this country the more loyal we will be to it and the more cooperative we will be in helping its development. 
The Commonwealth Banks Bill which is to amend the Commonwealth Banks Act 1959-73 in respect of the functioning of the Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia, in paragraph 3 states: 
Section 72 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting from sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) the word" or "; 
by inserting after sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) the following word and sub-paragraph:- " ; or (iii) for the establishment or development of undertakings providing accommodation or transportation for tourists or other facilities designed to attract tourists, particularly small undertakings,"; and 
by omitting from paragraph (b) the words " or of industrial undertakings " and substituting the words ", industrial undertakings or undertakings providing accommodation or transportation for tourists or other facilities designed to attract tourists ". 
That means that the resources of the Development Bank are to be made available under certain conditions to help promote tourism in Australiato help the private tourist facilities. This must be beneficial to our whole economy. Unfortunately the tourist industry in Australia today is lagging. It is feeling a recession. The private enterprise sector is finding it almost impossible to keep up with the spiralling costs. Charges are increasing and dividends are getting lower or are non-existent. Unless the Development Bank comes into the picture with the money needed for investment in this industry private enterprise will dry up. 
I commend the Government for introducing this legislation. I make one important request to the Government, to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  and to the Australian Tourist Commission: Now that we will give them authority to promote and stimulate tourism within Australia I hope that they will have full co-operation from the State governments which have carried the burden of this particular aspect of tourism through the years. We want assistance; we want co-operation. It must be remembered that the States do not get added revenue from the tourist industry; it is the Commonwealth Government that gets the added revenue. The only way in which the States can get added revenue is to introduce a tax on tourism, such as a bed tax or a petrol tax. But if this Government is of the mind to co-operate with the States, as this legislation gives it power to do, I believe that only success can come to an industry that should be daily helping to strengthen the economic future of Australia. On behalf of the Opposition Parties I give my support to the Bill. 
I rise to support both the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  and  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack who brought this matter to the light of day. Following a question asked by my Leader ':a the reply given by  Senator Murphy,  I was honoured by receiving an official request,  Mr President,  to have the privilege of representing you at Fairbairn Airport on Saturday afternoon last to join in the presentation and welcome to  His  Royal Highness Prince Charles. On my arrival in Canberra I was given the daily brief and the instructions for participants in clear bold type. I found that the order of precedence was  Mr Fry  who I think came into this Parliament on 18 May for the first time as a member for one of the Australian Capital Territory electorates for the House of Representatives. He was representing  Mr Speaker.  I was next in line representing you,  Mr President,  and proudly so. I have been a member of the Senate for nearly 21 years. Then came the Chief of the General Staff, Admiral  Sir Victor  Smith,  Sir John  Bunting and  Mr Scholtens.  Knowing the feeling in the Senate, having some good knowledge of what went on in Caucus and knowing of the belief that there the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  had expressed the view that the holder of the office for the longer period should be the senior, I made inquiries of an unofficial nature. All I am prepared to say is that over the weekend, having made these inquiries, I was informed that as far as my informant was able to say the Prime Minister's Department had been given a direction and that direction had not been changed. 
-I rise to speak on behalf of the Liberal Party Opposition. I do not adopt the normal procedure of seeking the adjournment of the debate. I do this because when we can co-operate with the Government and when it deserves that cooperation we co-operate. We understand that the Government desires this Bill to receive the royal assent and its clauses to be put into operation as soon as possible. As we believe that nothing but good can come from the Bill, we are prepared to aid its speedy passage through the Senate. It may seem unfamiliar to honourable senators for a Tasmanian senator to be prepared to agree to allow a shipping Bill to pass through the Senate quickly without enumerating the many hardships suffered by my State of Tasmania because of its shipping problems; but other legislation that the Government is introducing today will give us the opportunity to put forward the problems of our State. 
This Bill deals with the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. Under the Bill, the Commission is now to be called the Australian Shipping Commission. Hitherto, the Australian National Line has had authority under legislation to trade only interstate and around the coast of Australia. Its present name is an anachronism because it has embarked on overseas trade. The Australian flag is being carried into many foreign ports. It is obviously the Government's intention that this development will be increased. So we are not opposing that. Incidentally, the legislation will help Tasmania specifically, as I will outline briefly in a few minutes. 
I want to emphasise that in another place yesterday this legislation was debated thoroughly by members on both sides of the House. Once again, the Australian Government Minister for Transport,  Mr Jones,  showed his willingness to co-operate and to accept amendments that will improve the legislation that he has placed before the Parliament. This is the third major occasion in the life of the new Parliament on which this Minister has shown statesmanlike qualities that have enabled him to persuade his Government to accept important amendments moved by the Opposition. I refer to the Loans Bills for the airlines and the roads legislation. In this Bill we have another instance of amendments put forward by the Opposition on behalf of the people to improve the legislation having been quickly and willingly accepted by the Minister. They are now in the Bill before the Senate. I have referred to the first amendment in this legislation- the change of name from the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission to the Australian Shipping Commission. Because of its increased responsibilities naturally the Government has found it necessary to increase the number of commissioners from five to seven with one full-time commissioner. I congratulate the Government on deciding to appoint one full-time commissioner for this very, very important job as far as Australian shipping is concerned. 
The Bill alters the basis on which the Commission is reimbursed for losses in the operation of a shipping service undertaken at the direction of the Minister for Transport. That is of great assistance to shipping in Australia. In other words, it is not being said: 'You must make a profit' or you cannot make losses.' As I understand the legislation, it will mean in layman's terms that the Minister may request the Commission to operate a service, and if that service cannot be operated at a profit it can be reimbursed for the losses incurred by this ministerial or governmental direction. This is something from which we Tasmanians would, I think, hope to benefit. We know of the ad hoc decisions taken recently by the Government to tide us over serious shipping problems, but I believe that this Bill puts into legislative form a means by which this Government and all future governments will be able to help places like Tasmania and possibly the Northern Territory. Other shipping schedules may need to be operated and have the losses incurred reimbursed from the Commonwealth purse. 
The other amendments are mostly of a minor and machinery nature, and we agree with them. One ensures that any moneys loaned to the Commission for its operation- its capital expenditurewill be loaned at the long term bond interest rate. I believe it is fair that a government business undertaking should not have to go into the open market for funds. It is working for the government. Therefore, it should be able to get money from the government at the interest rate that the government is paying for that money on the long term loan market. 
Another amendment agreed to by the Minister was to the important section 17 of the principal Act. The amendment added a sub-clause 5 by which the Minister gives a direction for the Commission to run a service. It says: 
The Minister shall cause a copy of any direction given by him under sub-section ( 1 ) - 
That is of the principal Act- 
. to be laid before each House of Parliament within IS sitting days of that House after the direction is made by him. 
In other words, the Opposition proposed, and the Government agreed, that Parliament must be given the oversight of any ministerial action which ordered a government business undertaking to enter into a certain aspect of trade. 
I conclude by supporting the legislation on behalf of the Liberal Opposition. I trust that the new Commission will take a very deep- deep is rather an awkward word to use when talking about the sea, I suppose, and those who go down to the sea in ships- interest in Tasmania's shipping interests. I hope that it will keep a constant watch on them. I hope that through its expertise and direct communications with the Government and the Minister, it will keep the Government informed of our problems. Governments in the past- I am not saying this Government only- have not realised that national governments never make profits out of roadways. Their building and maintenance cost money. Bass Strait is the highway to and from Tasmania, albeit sometimes rough and always wet. But no national government should seek to gain a profit. It should reimburse the losses and help the people who trade and whose lifeline is that shipping service. With those few words, I support the legislation before the Senate. 
-I had not intended to take part in this debate - 

 - Senator Wheeldon may have thought so but he will be sorry later on that I did. The cold hard fact that seems to have been forgotten for an hour or two is that the Senate is debating a measure which will provide a special grant of $ 15m to Tasmania- no small amount, nothing to be scorned or laughed at. The reason for the giving of this money has never been made completely plain but one result of it is that Tasmania ceased to be under the dominationand I use the word advisedly- of the Grants Commission and does not carry the sobriquet ' mendicant State '. Whether or not that will be beneficial to the people of Tasmania in the years that lie immediately ahead is something to be doubted by me. Having great faith in the knowledge and experience of  Senator Everett,  I thought that the Senate could have got from him some very helpful advice as to the economic factors for and against Tasmania accepting what appeared to us to be a mysteriously produced $15m that is seeing the light of day through this legislation. To the motion for the second reading of this Bill giving effect to this grant,  Senator Rae  on behalf of the Opposition moved an amendment couched in friendly, sensible and easy to understand terms: 
But the Senate is of the opinion that the proposed provision of grants to the State of Tasmania is inadequate - 
Every State and every government wants more money, so that is a statement of fact. The amendment continues:  and that the Government should forthwith make provision for further funds - 
And we give a specific reason- we do not offer criticism- why we want more funds-  to enable Tasmanian people and commercial undertakings to enjoy a shipping transport cost no greater per ton mile than the rail freight applying to the other States of Australia. 
If we are criticised for putting that to the national Parliament when dealing with a Bill to which it should be attached and Government senators do not vote for it, they are saying: 'We heard the promise of the Prime Minister at election time. We do not believe he meant it. We know he will not implement it and therefore we cannot support your amendment.' All we are putting into print as an addendum to the motion for the second reading of the Bill is 'Welcome to the promise of the Prime Minister of Australia to arrange, as it were, a roadway across the Strait'. I am not allowed to refer to previous debates in this Parliament but I have at times expressed the view that shipping is Tasmania's greatest problem. Therefore it is only right that the Senate should be the informing House because in the other place the Opposition does not have a voice from Tasmania. I wonder whether this is part of the cause of the disarray amongst the people of Tasmania at the present time. 
Before I get on to that I want to remind Government senators that either their memories are short or their expressions are unfair; they can please themselves which side of the coin they take. It was a Liberal-Country Party government that gave Tasmania's shipping and transport communications the greatest impetus they have ever received. The 'Princess of Tasmania', 'Empress of Australia ', 'Australian Trader' and other ships such as the 'Darwin Trader' and the Townsville Trader' were produced during the time of Liberal-Country Party government in Canberra. 
It is not normally my custom to praise a Labor Government Minister twice in the one day. But again I praise the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for issuing authority for international ships to trade between coastal ports in Tasmania on special licences. But what has happened? Industrial disputes have arisen and it will not be long before overseas shipping companies say that they do not want to take this coastal freight or engage in this coastal traffic. They will say that they are not interested because our Seamen 's Union and other unions will not have a bar of them. They will not go on losing money, thus pushing up freight rates further. We talk about how we suffer in Tasmania because of increased freight rates. It must be admitted that over and above the present rate of inflation- it was 4.8 per cent when we were in power and it is over 20 per cent now; a big increase in 2 yearsfreight rates have increased because of the heavily increased costs of shipping caused by industrial disputes. In my opinion, this Government has not lifted one finger, said one word to help the position or said anything in reprimand to the unions that are crucifying trade between Tasmania and the mainland ports. 
I will deal with that in a short time. But I will make my speech in the way that I want to make it and according to my desires. We have been told in this debate, and it is true, that Tasmania's rate of unemployment is over 3 per cent of the work force. It is the highest rate of unemployment in Australia and it is the highest rate of unemployment in Tasmania for many years. It is a very serious situation. Those who are unemployed in Tasmania and who read or hear this debate will not regard very favourably the parliamentarians who rose to say: 'Everying is marvellous. We are giving the people of Tasmania more money than we are giving to anyone else. We are spending more money on education and the arts. We are buying paintings such as " Blue Poles " and " Woman V ".' These things do not appeal to the people who are unemployed. 
I do not know whether any honourable senator has been here long enough to remember this. But the predecessors of the present Labor Party senators used to cry, when there was an unemployment rate of more than 1.2 per cent in Australia: 'You will be cool in Hytten 's Pool'. This was because the great Professor Hytten suggested that a country always must have an unemployment rate of about 1 per cent or 1 .2 per cent. Now, the unemployment rate is 3.14 per cent. I say that people can now say that they can be bleak in Crean 's Creek.  Mr Crean  is the Treasurer of Australia. Since the day the Budget was presented, we have heard that he went overseas but we have not heard one word on the economic state of Australia. We do not know whether he still holds the job or whether  Mr Hawke  is acting as Treasurer from the board room of the Reserve Bank of Australia. 
This is the point I want to make to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who will reply for the Government: Labor Party senators boast that their Party has been in government in Tasmania for all but 3 years since 1934. But no one has referred to the fact that there were 3 years of Liberal government- good government- which ended abruptly. No one has ever stated the reason and the conditions under which that government fell. We have had many years of continuing Labor Government in Tasmania. We hear Government senators boast about how wonderful they are. It is true that the Labor Party has won 5 seats in Tasmania in the House of Representatives and holds a number of Senate seats. So it has by far the greatest political power over the people of Tasmania that any government has had for many years. The Labor Party has had the longest run as a State government in Tasmania. As a result of that- it cannot be denied- Tasmania today is in the worst state it has been since the depression of the 1930s. There is no doubt about it. I am not a chaser after doom. But, unless very wise action is taken in respect of tariff cuts, bounties and grants- not just grants which for a time enable some people who are unemployed to be employed but grants to get people back to work and to get the money rolling around through business- the Government will have every cause to face a motion of no confidence. 
I mean this. The situation in Tasmania is grave. This Bill is only doing something that was promised some months ago. All that we forward thinking Liberal Party senators want to say to the Government tonight is that we want the promise of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  redeemed by the Government taking action to lower freight rates, not just northbound from Tasmania across Bass Strait but to and from Tasmania. I conclude my remarks by wholeheartedly and sincerely supporting the amendment and by saying that Tasmania will not be put on the road to recovery until the sea-road freight is subsidised and shipping schedules are not only adequate but also regular. Some authority has to provide that sort of service if the Tasmanian population is to return to its former economic position. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the 
Senate. In spite of the Government's understandable desire to boost the revenue of the Postmaster-General's Department, does the Leader of the Government agree that it is gross extravagance and shocking administration for a telegram of some 40 words to be sent on behalf of a Minister of State in Parliament House to me in my office in the same building? If he does agree, will he use his undoubted influence in Cabinet to have such extravagances cease forthwith? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen page 5 of the official transcript of a speech by the Prime Minister to the National Conference of the Australian Council of Salaried and Professional Associations, held in Canberra on Monday, 2 1 October, when the Prime Minister spoke to the employees and gave them 3 assurances regarding unemployment? My question relates to the third assurance. The Prime Minister said: 
If unemployment does occur in the community despite our efforts and our intentions wc stand ready to cushion its effects. 
He went on to say how this would be done. Can the Leader of the Government tell the people of Australia how many thousands of people must be out of work in Australia before the Prime Minister of this country learns that unemployment has occurred? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the serious problems facing primary producers of the Huon Valley area of southern Tasmania resulting from the feared collapse of the apple industry and the serious downturn in the meat producing sector, will the Minister take appropriate action, as recommended by the producers in the area, to encourage the Australian Industries Assistance Commission to investigate and report upon any aspect of primary industry to which this hitherto richly productive area can turn in order to ensure the economic security of the community? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property ask his colleague to provide the Senate, as soon as possible, with information as to the price paid by the Australian Government for the Trades Hall building in Hobart; the name of the agent or persons who made the contract on behalf of the Government; whose valuation, if any, was accepted by the Government; the use to which the building or the land is to be put; and when occupancy will be commenced? 
-It is a happy coincidence that the Senate is, I hope, going to put into legislative form the Bill before the Senate on a night when the National Congress of the Returned Services League is meeting in Melbourne. I believe the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  had the privilege of being in attendance and no doubt opened the Congress or addressed it. We will look forward to getting the verbatim report of his message to the RSL.  Mr President,  you and I, although on different sides of the Senate, have spoken on many a repatriation Bill over the years. They are now history. I think it will be agreed by most members of the Senate that this particular Bill is more extensive than many we have debated because it brings under the principal Act, the Repatriation Act 1920-1973, the following Bills to which it will authorise changes: The Interim Forces Benefits Act, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act, the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act, the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act to be retitled the Papua New Guinea (Members of the Forces Benefits) Act, and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act. I name them into the record because of some references I shall make to some of them in the comparatively short speech I intend to make on this legislation. 
The second point that I want to emphasise early in this speech is that the Minister and, I presume, the Government have initiated and put into the record the term 'veterans' which the Minister defines as those ex-servicemen and women covered by repatriation legislation. This initiative appears to have been well received. I have not had the official advice from the headquarters of the RSL because it is meeting in Melbourne but from what I have heard and been able to find out the term 'veteran' is acceptable. I think this is for 2 reasons. One reason is that it shows our continuing friendship with the American people, and I am glad that the Minister is supporting this line of policy because Australian-American relationships are very important. The other is that most countries, I understand, use the term 'veteran' and wonder what 'repatriation' means in our legislation. So I have no criticism to offer. As a matter of fact, I think it shows that we in Australia are able as time marches on to adopt changes. I remember in the early years after the Second World War the Returned Servicemen's League was known as the RSS&amp;AILA-the Returned Soldiers, Sailors and Airmen's Imperial League of Australia. It was born in about 1917. Then it became the Returned Soldiers League- the RSLbecause somehow or other it was thought that, the majority having served in the Army, it should be called the Soldiers League. Better advice and thought predominated and those of us who are members of the League are now known as returned servicemen and the League is now known as the Returned Services League. Whether or not there will be any change of that name I strongly doubt but it could become the Veteran's League or the Veteran's Association. 
The Bill before the Senate increases most of the benefits payable to beneficiaries under all the legislation which I have enumerated. The details are set forth in the Senate Hansard of Thursday, 24 October 1974, in the Minister's second reading speech, starting at page 2001. I will not repeat those details because they are in the record and, more importantly, as soon as we pass this Act it will receive royal assent and those who are to be beneficiaries will receive the benefits and will know the details. They are the ones principally concerned. Of course, the taxpayers who provide the money also have a right to be concerned. 
In addition to the increases in actual payments to the beneficiaries, the Bill takes two welcome steps forward and I have no hesitation in congratulating the Minister and the Government. They have provided in the legislation that prisoners-of-war of the Second World War will be entitled to full repatriation medical and hospital attention. As the Minister said, it might be wondered why prisoners-of-war are singled out but there are prisoners-of-war in both Houses of this Parliament who would be able to tell us from their own experience why now, many years after the Second World War, medical and hospital benefits for all requirements will be available to them. This is a step in the right direction. There is another important addition to the advance made last year when  Senator Bishop  was Minister for Repatriation- and I shall say something about senators and repatriation in a moment. Last year those ex-servicemen who had served in a theatre of war became entitled to medical and hospital benefits if they became victims of cancer. In this legislation the Minister has widened the scope of that provision and now it includes all veterans of the Second World War and, I presume, wars before that and since. All veterans, and that means all servicemen, are accepted for repatriation benefits. 
In an aside I said I would refer to Ministers for Repatriation from the Senate and from another place. When I first came into Parliament in 1953 -the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office and stayed there for 23 years- the slogan in respect to repatriation was: 'Whom Caucus first wishes to destroy, it makes Minister for Repatriation', because both the previous 2 Labor Ministers for Repatriation in another place had lost their seats when facing the electors.  Senator Wheeldon,  like many Liberal senators, obviously will not suffer that fate, particularly after this Bill becomes law. 
According to the official records, it is estimated that some 13,600 veterans who were prisoners of war will be eligible for the medical and hospital benefit. The Department has even gone on record as estimating that, by widening the scope of eligibility for medical and hospital treatment to include cancer, another 2,400 ex-servicemen could be included. That is the good news. But mostly these days good news is followed by serious news. I do not use the phrase 'bad news'. The serious news is that, according to the Minister's second reading speech, repatriation benefits this financial year in total will cost this nation of 13 million people- let us assume that there are 5 million taxpayers- the sum of $650m. That is an increase in 4 years- I am not being party politicalof some $272m, an increase of 33  W  per cent. 
We are dealing with the Repatriation Act 1920-1973. 1 understand that this year the total increased payments will be $ 143m for the part of the year. The payments do not fall due until royal assent has been given to this legislation. Last financial year for the full year the cost of repatriation benefits increased by $88m. So the people of Australia- you and I, the taxpayershave to realise that, regardless of the rights or wrongs, the Government is saying to the people: 
In about two to three years time, as the aftermath of participation in war and in war only, the cost to this underpopulated country'- honourable senators opposite like a lot of idiots are talking about zero population- 'will be $ 1,000m'. Alternatively the Labor Party may do what it did when it was in government during the depressionreduce pensions. I do not think that even this Government would have the nerve to do that. 
There is no doubt that the benefits being made available under this legislation will add to the inflationary pressures that are muddling Australia and confusing the Cabinet, the Caucus, the Caucus cabinet and the kitchen cabinet. Everyone is confused and everyone is worried about inflation. By passing this legislation we are knowingly adding to the pressures of inflation. But what I want to say is this: A government is elected to govern. I choose my words very carefully. A government is responsible for its own policy and a government must bear the brunt of the effects of its policy both on the recipients and on the people who pay- the people of Australia. As I have said, this Bill will add to inflation. 1 say to the Government: Those who live by inflation, politically, will die because of inflation. The vote seekers will find before they are many months older politically that what is won on the roundabouts is lost on the swings. That is the responsibility of honourable senators opposite. They knew it when they took over government. They know it now and they must stand up to the test of time. 
The Opposition will not delay the passage of the Bill because it knows that, once it receives royal assent, the benefits will become payable from that day or from the nearest pension day afterwards. Normally the Budget would have been brought down in August and by 1 October the new benefits would have been payable. Now it looks like early November or mid November. Already a month of inflation, rising at 20 per cent odd a year, has bitten into the benefits that were promised and that we are putting into law tonight. So the Opposition wants the Bill to become law before too much more of the benefits is eaten away. As I said earlier, I congratulate the Minister, the Government and the Department on the fact that they have had a look at other things. They have not just had their minds on financial and hospital and medical benefits. In legal terms, as I understand them, it has made certain that the majority decisions of the determining authorities- that is, the tribunals and the boards which are mostly composed of 3 membersare valid in law. There appears to have been some doubt about their validity because of what has happened in respect of enlarging the scope whereby the reasons for the decisions will be made known to ex-servicemen and for other reasons, it has been necessary to put a little strength into the Act to ensure that validity and also to strengthen the famous section 47 of the principal Act, which has been debated so often and so long and which relates to the onus of proof. 
It may interest honourable senators who have not studied the Bill- if there are any- to know that the independence of Papua New Guinea is acknowledged and the effect on ex-servicemen resident in that emerging country is covered by this Bill. In other words, those who are entitled to repatriation benefits, service pensions and the like who are going to remain living in Papua New Guinea will, under this Bill, be able to draw their Australian entitlements. In addition the Department and the Minister have picked out from the legislation the fact that mariners- merchant seamen- have been under some disability in the past. This is being rectified. In future those who are entitled under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act will be able, if they so desire, to have the right of appeal to repatriation tribunals. In other words, we are saying that Service personnel who are in the same category as veterans will have the same right of appeal to the same tribunals. That will ensure an equalising of benefits. I congratulate the Minister for including this provision in the Bill. 
As we know, the Minister is not only known as the Minister for Repatriation; he is also known as the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. The new title has caused him to include in this Bill a provision that the person who will be appointed Secretary to the Department of Repatriation and Compensation will also be Chairman of the Repatriation Commission. The Minister goes out of his way to say quietly that that gentleman, with the added duties, will receive no extra salary. He is like a parliamentarian in that respect. 
I wish  Senator Poyser  would keep quiet, because I am taking no real notice of him. I hope that the  Chairman  and Secretary will have added help in performing his extra duties; otherwise he will not be able to give the necessary amount of time to the details to which we would like to see him give attention. The Minister- I wish he could keep that broken record player behind him quiet- or his speech writers in optimistic mood forecast something for the autumn session. Fancy a Labor Government Minister forecasting that he will do something in the future! How amusing! But, if he is still here as Minister, if his Party is still here as Government and if they bring into the Senate the increases forecast by the Minister, I assure him that if I feel that the Treasury has the moneynot the fiduciary issue- to pay for the increases, he will receive at least my support. He gives service pensioners that light on the hill to look to and to hope for in that if they are 70 years of age or over- neither the Minister nor I am near that mark- they will receive their pension regardless of any means test qualification. 
The Bill before us encompasses more than 50 amendments. I congratulate the Department on providing the document which sets out clearly, even for laymen, the details and the explanations of the amendments which are wide-ranging but effective in the general tenor of what they strive to attain. The Repatriation Act is tidied up. I have to make a confession here. For some years I urged on previous governments and Ministers that the Repatriation Act be completely revised, reprinted and published because of the problem facing Returned Services League clubs, Legacy clubs and other ex-service associations in trying to interpret for the many inquirers from whom they receive queries the actual up to date details of the Act. This is a massive task. As I have said, we are considering the Repatriation Act 1920-1973. I believe it is time the Repatriation Act 1974-75 was produced. Finally, I say quite seriously to the Government that it is to be congratulated on the repatriation legislation. My only fear is that, although the Government's repatriation policy is good, its fiscal or economic policy has gone haywire. I wonder whether one is going to go one way and the other is going to go the other way. That is my only fear for the future. These benefits will be as nothing - 

 - Senator McAuliffe can say: 'Never fear'. He can sit back in his usual placid manner. But I am thinking of the people who suffer. 
No, I do not think the Government gives a continental, because of the way Government senators are laughing and joking on a serious matter. I say that this is a very serious matter. If the Government's fiscal or economic policy is such that inflation goes ahead by  25  per cent next year and many of these recipients of benefits are among the  200,000  unemployed, these benefits are as nothing. I say to the Government: 'Bring your fiscal policy into a common sense policy. Have a good economic policy. Get hold of the government of this country. Get us back to normal or get out '. 
The honourable senator would not know what normality was. He probably does not even know what it means. With those few kind words, on behalf of the Opposition I say that we support the legislation but we fear that the Government's policy will ruin the benefits which may be derived from the legislation. 
-I just rise to say that I think that what  Senator Laucke  has put to the House is of extreme interest. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (9.48)- I would like to address myself to the matters that have been raised before the Committee by  Senator Laucke.  I think it is wise to remind honourable senators of the reasons that led, in the first place, to the Appropriations Bills entering the Senate in the fashion and form in which they do and to which  Senator Laucke  has addressed himself. The circumstances- if  Senator Laucke  has not mentioned this already to honourable senators- is that as a result of a great deal of discussion which arose in the Senate in 1963 and to which  Senator Murphy  addressed himself, I recollect with great clarity an ad hoc committee of senators was appointed to look at the problem of what are known as the 'ordinary annual services of the Government'. This led to a detailed examination of the real meaning of 'ordinary annual services of the Government '. It is a matter that has bedevilled the Senate from 1901 onwards, including several references in the High Court to the meaning of those words. 
To cut a very long story short, in 1965 an agreement took place between the Prime Minister of that day and the Senate that the Appropriation Bills would take a certain form. So I address myself to the definitive statement- I had hoped it would be a definitive statement- of the Treasurer of that day,  Mr Harold  Holt, who on page 1484 of the House of Representatives Hansard of 13 May 1965, as the result of an agreement, said: 
When presenting the Appropriation (Special Expenditure) Bill 1964-65 last August I explained that that Bill contained those appropriations for which, in the opinion of the Government and its legal advisers, a good case could not be made out for the view that they were for the ordinary annual services of the Government. At the same time I said that discussions on the classifications of appropriations were continuing. 
Leaving out some matters, the Treasurer of the day said that the Bills would take this form:   . . subject to amendment by the Senate, containing appropriations for expenditure on- 
The construction of public works and buildings; 
The acquisition of sites and buildings; 
Items of plant and expenditure which are clearly definable as capital expenditure; 
Grants to the States under section 96 of the Constitution; and 
New policies not authorised by special legislation. Subsequent appropriations for such items will be included in the Appropriation Bill not subject to amendment by the Senate. 
It is perfectly clear to me, as a participant in the events that took place at that time, that a new item first appearing in the Appropriation Bill is a matter subject to amendment by the Senate and not subject to request. I think that  Senator Laucke  is probably addressing himself to this matter when he says that the Treasury, in compiling the Appropriation Bills, cannot anticipate an appropriation that will become an ordinary annual service of the government. It does not become an ordinary annual service of the government until it has first appeared in an Appropriation Bill as a new item of expenditure. Therefore, I think that in terms of constitutional and parliamentary propriety the attention of the Treasury should be drawn to this matter. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  should indicate to the Treasurer of the day that the Senate will not accept in future anticipatory items inside the Appropriation Bills which appear in the Appropriation Bills for the first time as non-amendable items. They are not request matters; they are amendable matters. 
Of course, a clear case is the item relating to the appointment of an ombudsman for the Army. That item appears in the Appropriation Bill. It has not appeared on any previous occasion as an item of expenditure. The item relating to this appointment appears for the first time and it is not an ordinary annual service of the government. It is a new item in the Appropriation Bill and therefore is subject to amendment by the Senate and not to request. I would be grateful if the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  who is in charge of this appropriation would bear this matter clearly in mind. If in future items of this nature appear in an Appropriation Bill as non-amendable items then the Senate, by my resolution or motion, will proceed, I hope, to reject the Appropriation Bill so that the matter can be put in its proper form. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Has the Minister for Agriculture any comments to make on the criticism understandably expressed by the Tasmanian Minister for Fisheries,  Mr Costello,  about the steep increases imposed by the Australian Government in fees for fishing boats? Are the increases, as  Mr Costello  said at the weekend, a direct contravention of an agreement between the Australian States and the Commonwealth? Can the fishermen, the people principally concerned, hope for any review of the suggested charges? 
As I have had a question put to me by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, may I have the leave of the Senate to answer it? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it correctly estimated, as published in today's 'Canberra Times' by that newspaper's aviation correspondent, that the cost of the Prime Minister's trip to Europe in the near future in a chartered Qantas Boeing 707/32 1C jet airliner will approximate $500,000? Is this the type of extravagance in which the national Government should indulge in view of the prospect of Australia suffering a record deficit of over $ 1,300m? 
-In rising to take part in this debate I want to say, first of all, that in my time in the Senate this has been one of the highest classes of debate to which I have been privileged to listen. There has been pathos, there have been cold, hard facts and there has been humour, but the debate has shown that those who have taken part in it have researched the subject before rising in their places and have put into the record some very important facets of opinion in respect to divorce laws. It is all very well to call the Bill a family law Bill, but its commencement and completion is in relation to divorce- the breaking down of marriages. There will be a free vote. Party politics are not supposed to enter into the decision of senators and members in another place when voting on this legislation. I regret the lack of opinion from people on your right,  Mr Deputy President.  I believe that the Senate would have been better informed if more senators who normally sit on your right and who are conspicuous by their absence at the moment had stated their opinions. 
I am glad that the honourable and learned Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  is honouring me with his presence in the chamber. I regret to say that I feel that the original aim of the marriage regulations which were rushed into the Senate was to inspire the country to accept a quick, easy and cheap method of changing marital partners, in other words, to make divorce quick and easy. The Senate wisely rejected those rules, and that gave rise, naturally, to the Bills that we have had over the last 1 8 months. I agree with words spoken by  Senator Peter  Durack on the first day of the resumption of the second reading debate when he expressed the view that the Bill was the most important one to come before the Parliament. It is a Bill of great importance to our moral life, to our economic life and to the institution of marriage which, after all, is the fundamental basis of our society. If this Bill in anything like the shape in which it has been presented to us on this its third appearance in the Senate becomes law, it cannot help but have a tremendous effect, either for good or for bad- I will not express an opinion on that- on the future situation of many present Australians and on future Australians who will be the products of Australian marriages. It will affect the basis of our human relationships. 
Since the legislation which was introduced by the then Attorney-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick, and which made divorce easier- the 5 -year plan- the marriage rate, in Australia, not only the number, has risen. Many of us held fears that there would be a great flood of applications, on the passing of that legislation, for divorce. There was a flood in the first few months, but in the following year when Australia had settled down to the Barwick legislation the divorce rate had increased but, I understand, not quite at the rate at which marriages had increased. I must point out that one of the reasons for the increase in the marriage rate was that with more divorces there were more second marriages. That shows that figures do not mean everything. 
I am not against second marriages. I believe that it is the moral right of any two people, if one is divorced or if both are divorced, to marry. 
Do you mind if I make my speech? You can speak during the Committee stage. I listened with rapt attention to you, as I always do, because I believe that you speak from the heart, with great clarity and with a lot of learning. On the other hand, on a Bill such as this, I speak as a layman. I do so tonight, for two reasons only. One is that I believe it is the responsibility of every senator, on the most important Bill that we have had before us for many years, to give his or her views, whether they are brief or protracted, on this legislation, not to sit like nervous Nellies and vote the way that the leader does. So I speak, firstly, because I deem it my responsibility as a member of the Australian Parliament to do so and secondly, candidly and blatantly I speak because of my desire to see the second reading of this Bill postponed. In other words, I come out in strong support- I will state my reasons, as a layman- of the amendment moved by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson. If this Bill, even with many of the suggested amendments, becomes law- family law as it is calledfamily life, the family unit, will be greatly altered. For good or for bad will depend on the decision of this Parliament and on nobody else. Parliament will be culpable or praised for the results on family life in Australia in future years. The family unit is our strongest link with happiness, prosperity and development of the Australian population. 
This Bill brings to the forefront deep religious beliefs and feelings. The people of religion, the spokesmen for the churches, should be listened to. Their views should not be abjectly obeyed or followed. They have been performing marriage ceremonies at the behest of millions of Australian couples over the years. Marriage is a tradition not in this country alone, not in the Commonwealth of Nations but in a great pan of the world. History has shown that. The marriage feast at Cana gives some proof of that. Secular interests of a variety of types will be affected by, and are interested in, the results of the decision ultimately of this Parliament in respect of the Family Law Bill. Broken marriages are the greatest causes of delinquency in any country. I think it was Archbishop Fulton Sheen of New York who said that there are 3 Ds- delinquent parents, doting parents and drinking parents. They cause by their behavioural patterns what we call 'delinquent children'. I know this from my experience on the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. The Committee interviewed 100 or so anonymous drug takers, not all of them addicts, who gave evidence in private without giving their names. A very large proportion of those people put their drug taking down to the fact that their parents had separated or were always arguing or were alcoholics. In other words, delinquent parents make delinquent children. These people became criminals in their search for drugs, and the Senate is perhaps going to be guilty if it is not careful of making marriages more easy to break. 
Because I am not a conservative in social legislation I do admit that every 15 to 20 years legislation such as this- we called it 'matrimonial causes' earlier, now we call it 'family law'needs to be amended to change with the mores of the people, and the mores of the people change as the years roll on. But I do not believe that we should legislate to cope with the leaders in the field of changed mores. If we are a responsible parliament we will try to put a curb on the changed mores if those changes are for the worse, as I believe they have been in recent years.  Senator Murphy,  the learned AttorneyGeneral I have referred to this earlier- introduced marriage regulations into the Senate and to the rescue the Senate came and disallowed them. The mercurial mind got busy and we now have the Family Law Bill. This is the third Bill from the same stable. If anyone had the time and the inclination to study the first Bill and compare it with the regulations and study the third Bill and the 93 amendments, I wonder if they would know whether they came not only from the same stable but from the same stud? I think there would be a query as to the birthright of the third Bill when it is compared with the first Bill. 
Not only have we had a Bill introduced 3 times, not only have we had amendments circulated, but we have had a committee of the Senate, comprising some of the most learned and sincere senators in this field of law and social behaviour, which produced a massive interim report. It was said today that the committee produced the report after 3 meetings and after having heard 7 witnesses, most of whom were identified with the introduction of the Bill. 
I am not going into a paean of praise for  Senator James  McClelland again. I wish the honourable senator would keep quiet. If we have any faith in the value of Senate committee reports, the report of this Committee should have been printed and widely distributed at least 3 months ago to the many readers who would have liked to consider it. If we are going to take the attitude that a committee of this Senate should report to the Senate only and the Senate acts blindly on the report without reading and digesting it and without the public expressing a view, then shame on us; let is do away with committees. The report of this Committee was well worthy of being read, even if its views were slanted towards the passing of the measure with some amendments. As several speakers have pointed out, there have been 90-odd amendments proposed, many of them machinery amendments resulting from the original amendment introduced by the mover of the motion for the second reading of the Bill. Does this not show the value of taking time- of delaying? Fancy the Attorney-General's Bill being passed by the Senate and the Attorney-General then having to run down to the other end of the building and say to his friend the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam): 'Mr P.M.,  I have got 92 amendments to that Bill that are going to improve it '. The Senate would have been the laughing stock of the nation. Shame on us. The Government Printer, the printing presses in this building and the typists in Parliament House have been working overtime since this Bill was introduced, and I remind honourable senators that the Government tried to gag the second reading debate on this Bill. Since it tried to gag the debate and failed, what have we had? We have had an amendment put forward by  Senator Laucke,  an amendment put forward by  Senator Baume,  amendments put forward by Senators Durack and Chaney, and amendments put forward by members of the Senate Committee. These amendments have been distributed tonight. The Attorney-General is getting very toey. He wants to go into Committee and say: 'I move that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill going through the Committee stages without delay', so that we can get to the third reading. The Senate must spend 3 or 4 days in the Committee stages, if by any mischance the amendment of  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson is not carried because of the multiplicity and complexity of the amendments. 
I say without any hesitation that there is not one senator- and I include the highest legal officer in the land, the Attorney-General- who would understand what would be the result of the Bill if all the Attorney-General's amendments were passed and some of the amendments of Senators Durack, Baume and Laucke. 

 - Senator James McClelland says he would understand. He has a greater understanding of himself than we have of him. Rarely in my 20 years of parliamentary life have I had more unemotional and considered representations from a greater variety of people and from a greater variety of interests than I have had in respect of the Family Law Bill, and I presume this would apply to all other honourable senators. I am not going to refer to those representations in detail because I believe all honourable senators have had them. Perhaps some of the silent nervous Nellies who will not give their views on the Bill so that Hansard may record what they really think put a lot of the representations they received straight into the wastepaper basket. They know how they are going to vote and they are not going to waste their time. They will obey their orders from the top. 
I am not taking orders from anyone. I am considering the amendments and I will consider the views of the Senate put in argument. My main interest at the moment is to get support for the Senate to take a sensible statesmanlike decision, to allow this Bill to stand over until the autumn session. There are changes; there are reasons for these changes. Never have I seen a measure come before the Parliament which has been followed by more ministerial publications, both roneod and printed, than the original legislation on this matter. 
Yes. I am glad of that interjection. As far as I can follow those I have had a chance to study, they are improvements. I believe that adjourning this matter for 10 weeks will give us time to consider it. There will be more improvements to the legislation. The Senate and the Australian Parliament will earn a reputation and the people will be grateful to them. There is another important reason why the Senate's attention should be taken away from considering the Family Law Bill. I quote, firstly, what the Chief Secretary in the Tasmanian Labor Government and the  President  of the Tasmanian Branch of the Australian Labor Party said on the day following the announcement of the second Budget in a period of 6 weeks. He said he hoped that the Prime Minister and the Australian Government would delay consideration of their welfare and social legislation until they got down to the job of legislating for the economy, the welfare of the economy and in conjunction - 
You will only make me take longer if you do this sort of thing. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-Order!  I think that  Senator Marriott  - 
I am not filibustering,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I think that that is an unfair slur by the Attorney-General to whom I have tried to be fair. I am doing my best to give the reasons why I sincerely believe that consideration of this Bill in committee should be delayed. Public opinion and parliamentary opinion can be formalised and finalised and we can give our vote in time. I say quite sincerely that one of the reasons why consideration of the Bill should be delayed is, as  Senator Everett  would know, that the  President  of the Labor Party in Tasmania,  Mr Lowe,  has said that he wants us to get on with legislating in order to get the economy out of the wallowing sea of despondency and despair in which it is at the present time. It is expected that inflation will be running at the rate of 30 per cent at the end of this year. It was extraordinary to hear  Mr Lowe  's statement on the news broadcast tonight because it was followed by the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he said: 'In spite of the serious state of the economy'- he did not say 'bother the unemployed' or anything, but it was almost inferred 'we will press on with our social legislation'. From letters that I have received I realise that there are many people- I will not say coupleswaiting for this legislation to be finalised. But in all fairness to them, I believe they should understand that many more people fear the passing of this legislation in its present form or in a near relationship to its present form. 
The main reason why I suggest the legislation should be delayed is that there are many more people in Australia in all walks of life, in all religions and in all secular occupations who want to know more about the real, possible effects of the legislation. They are undecided in their minds. They realise the seriousness to Australia if bad legislation goes on to the statute books. It must be remembered in coming to a decision on this matter that if a parliament were to pass bad legislation on an important social question such as this it is unlikely that the parliament would look at this question for another 10 or 15 years. In other words, to use a phrase of the late and honoured  Mr Arthur  Calwell: 'The eggs will be scrambled if this Bill gets royal assent'. 
Finally, I say to the Senate that there is too much responsibility on us, with all the amendments that have already been circulated. How will the Parliamentary Counsel possibly keep up with the Committee stage of the Bill and be able to promise us that we have a Bill that will not be a lawyer's paradise? That will be one of the things that will count with this legislation. If it is badly amended or crudely amended it will be a lawyer's paradise and the people whom it is supposed to help will find themselves paying heavy legal fees and being subjected to great frustration. This is one of the measures that should be as near perfect and fair as it is in the power of parliamentarians to devise. I plead very sincerely with the Senate to delay the passing of the Bill. Let us delay going into the Committee stage of the Bill until Parliament meets in the autumn session. 
Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that the Australian Government could, with any useful effect, call on the Palestine Liberation Organisation to renounce violence and terrorism so that a basis for peaceful negotiation with Israel could be established? If the answer is in the affirmative, will the Minister advise the Senate whether he can take some suitable action? 
I rise briefly, but sincerely, to seek some information from the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  1 have been extremely silent throughout the Committee stage of the Bill because 1 realise that in the Senate we have some of the most able legal brains that have given great attention to all aspects of this Bill. I was prepared to listen to the debate and vote accordingly. More often than not I voted on the losing side. I remind the Senate that in my participation in the second reading debate I urged delay because I thought the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs should have been circulated and understood by the public and that public opinion should have become vocal. I also held the belief that with so many amendments the Bill should have been delayed until the next session so that public opinion could become vocal. As a result of parliamentary experience I raised the point of view that as there were over 100 amendments to the 90-odd clauses of the Bill it would be difficult for the Parliamentary Counsel to keep up with the insertion of the amendments and to know what effect they would have on the whole spectrum of the Bil! and allied legislation, if there is such legislation. 
I am not going to be provocative but in the divisions in which 1 took part only once was there a division in which some Government supporters voted on the same side as the Opposition. In the majority of divisions in the Committee stage it was revealed that the Government and some Opposition supporters voted against the remainder of the Opposition. This Bill is to go to the other place and it will go there as a completely new publication. Anything honourable members in the other place have read about the Bill prior to its coming into the Senate will be a handicap to them, not a help. I want some information from the Attorney-General which I think should be revealed to the Senate. We have a responsibility to ask the Government this question: Will time be given for the Parliamentary Counsel and the Attorney-General's Department, if it is appropriate for it to have a say, to have a reprint of the Bill and to make a study of it in order to ensure that it is a legal entity, a viable law, an understandable law and a watertight law before it goes to the other place where no doubt it will be rushed through, guillotined or gagged. 
Government supporters- Oh! 
-Government supporters should not say 'Oh'. That is the truth. There are only 9 sitting days left in which the House of Representatives can meet. I understand that the Press reports fairly the leaks it gets from the 'think tanks ' and I understand from the Press that some 50 or 60 Bills are to be considered in the other place in the last 9 days that it can possibly meet in this session of Parliament. I believe I am being fair and just and am doing the right thing by the Senate in asking the AttorneyGeneral to tell us the program as to when this Bill, passed at its third reading stage here tonight, with my vote, will be presented for a first reading in the other place. As the senior legal man in the Australian Government will he say that he believes iri his heart that the Bill as presented for a first reading in the House of Representatives will be one that lawyers will not be able to drive a bullock wagon through? If a bad Bill is passed, the speed, the cheapness and ease of divorce aimed at in this Bill will go by the board. There will be frustration and expense to litigants and thousands of dollars will flow to the legal profession which will drive holes through a Bill rushed through this Parliament. If the Attorney-General can give me his assurance that in his belief the Bill as presented for a first reading in the other place will represent sound legislation I will believe him. 
My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Is he aware that at least 12 government departments or business undertakings employ advertising agencies which, judged by the present Government's definition, are foreign-controlled companies? Does he agree that it is neither right nor necessary for such enterprises as Trans-Australia Airlines, the Australian National Line and the Australian Tourist Commission to by-pass Australian owned companies? Does his ministerial responsibility enable him to ensure the use of Australian owned companies, all other things being equal? What useful comments has he to make on this matter of principle? 
I thank the Leader of the Government in the Senate for his courtesy in extending question time. My question seeks information for war veterans which I think may be helpful. I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Now that under the Administrative Arrangements Order made on 12 June 1974 the provisions of the insurance of homes under the Defence Service Homes Act 1918-1973 will be administered by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, will he inform the Senate whether in future inquiries concerning insurance of homes, payment of insurance premiums and of claims will be made through his Department or through the Department of Housing and Construction to which monthly loan repayments are made? 
-I second the amendment. I realise that, figuratively speaking, bags are being packed and it is either home for Christmas or to Europe in a Boeing 707. I suppose one could be accused of speaking at the wrong time but I speak because I believe that certain things I am going to say should go on the record. Under a normal government, a government of efficiency and sincerity, a government that works with and not against its own Public Service, we would have had plenty of opportunity as an upper House to debate these taxation measures without hurry. What I am going to say could be said of all the taxation measures arising from the Budget and miniBudgets that have been brought into this Parliament since 17 September. What has happened in respect of the Budgets, the finances and the economy of this country has proved the ineptitude of the Government. It has to my way of thinking, shown that as a government the Australian Government is lazy and in its presentation or in its delay of presentation of legislation to the Parliament it is attempting to be cunning. 
Yesterday there was a lot of reporting of the celebrations marking the second year of Labor in government. It was the second year, the third Budget and the second Treasurer. What a recommendation. What an indication of how much at sea this Government is in respect of both Australia and itself. Nobody could deny that the outgoing Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  is one of the gentlemen of the Parliament. I would be sure that he would not have a critic or an enemy in this Parliament unless it were in the inner Cabinet. Yet, he is being ditched, sent down, because of the state of the economy. Soon after his removal from the office of Treasurer was announced the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was attacking Treasury officials because he implied that they were either late in providing or kept from him important information regarding the economy. If there was any truth in that the Prime Minister had plenty of time to make inquiries about the state of the economy because throughout the election campaign before 18 May he was continually told about the need to reduce taxation and that the fight was about inflation, but he would not listen. He now finds that the economy is in a mess prior to his leaving us on an overseas trip for 5 weeks without having to face the music from the many unemployed in this country. There is not one newspaper or commentator in this land who has not impressed publicly upon the Prime Minister that his duty at this time is to stay in Australia and not leave it to a new Treasurer, an acting Prime Minister and a Cabinet that does not know where it is going. 
Under normal circumstances- things were not normal this year- we would have had the Budget brought down in August and up to mid-October we would have debated Budget legislation and subsequent social legislation. This year, because of the double dissolution- that was the excuse which was given- the Budget was not brought down until 17 September. Instead of the Senate getting in October the real Budget legislation such as taxation measures we have for discussion legislation at a time which many think is the eve of the break-up for the Christmas recess and we are meant to hurry through the legislation. This demonstrates the Government's cunning. It wants us to be silenced. All I will say about this is that I will not be silenced when I believe it is my duty to speak up in criticism ofthe way this country is being run. I hope that the electors of Queensland will- only they will be able to show this on Saturday by their vote; they can speak for the people of Australia; it is a big and healthy State and can speak for the rest of this land- give a hint to the Government that it should either improve its ways or get out and make way for the return of a Liberal government. 
I remind the people who sling off at the 23 years of Liberal government that in the last 10 or 12 years of that period the accepted slogan throughout this land by unbiassed people and by unbiassed commentators was that we lived in a happy developing country which the world, our neighbours and friends knew as 'Australia unlimited'. Now it is Australia limited by the fears and worries that beset us. This year will go down in history as the one in which Australia economically has gone down in strength and brought more worries to more people than any year since the great Depression of the 1930s. When the election campaign was on it was interesting to note the 2 themes adopted by the Labor Party in its advertisements, and this was particularly noticeable in Tasmania. One theme was that 'only Snedden will cause unemployment*. Now, unfortunately, it has been shown that the Whitlam Government has been the cause in many respects- this was illustrated by  Senator Carrick  who preceded me in this debate- of the unemployment situation. 
In today's newspapers we read that some time next year interest on housing loans for young people may be reduced 2 per cent or 3 per cent. This is a very long delayed fulfilment of a promise on which hundreds of dollars was spent in advertising that only Labor, only Whitlam, would reduce- not 'could'- housing loan interest for young people. These people have waited and waited and they are now told, before we go home for Christmas, that with interest rates higher than they have ever been before in this country they will have to wait until next year when this Parliament will have before it legislation to reduce interest rates perhaps by 2 per cent or 3 per cent which will still leave the rate of interest for home buyers at a rate higher than it was when this Government came into office 2 years ago. 
I want to explain why, in my view, the Opposition is going to allow this legislation to pass. I believe it has been a right decision to say that when the Government's Budget is introduced, its fiscal policy is either accepted or thrown out. I do not believe an Opposition is right to pick and choose as regards what part of a fiscal policy it will let through and what part it will endeavour to block if it can get the numbers. In my view a Budget in the national Parliament either should get through or be thrown out, and it was decided, obviously after much thought, that the Budget should go through. In my view, when the Government realised that it purposely delayed legislation until the close of this session in the hope that we would not show up the criticism that we have and which we know the people feel is right in respect of the history and the misdoings of this Government. I second the amendment to the motion because I believe it puts succinctly what we feel and what the people will show they realise is correct when next they have the opportunity to cast their vote. 
My question which is addressed to the Attorney-General arises because of the conflicting reports in the media concerning this subject. I ask the Attorney-General: Will he as soon as practicable inform the Senate on what date Junie Morosi commenced work on the staff of the former Minister for Immigration,  Mr Grassby,  and when she left that post? On what date did she commence work on the staff of the  Deputy  Prime Minister,  Dr Cairns?  When was  Mr Grassby  informed of the transfer of the lady to her new job? 
-I rise to second the amendment moved by  Senator Durack  and to speak on this matter as a layman and also as a member of the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory, which inquired into constitutional reform of the Northern Territory. The Bill is entitled the Northern Territory (Stabilization of Land Prices) Bill 1974, but in full truth it is a Bill which is aimed at giving Canberra the power to control the acquisition without the right of appeal of, to begin with, land around the urban area of Darwin. I am very keen to take part in opposing this measure because I believe that if there is one element which should belong to the fully elected assembly or council of a self governing community it is the right to decide the use to be made of the urban lands. The urban lands are where people live or are to live- their environment for life. Surely these lands should rightly be controlled by the elected members of such a body and not by distant Canberra. 
It is rather amazing that the present Government has introduced this legislation when one considers the timing of the Joint Committee's appointment, the knowledge of when its report might come in and the lack of knowledge of what the report will recommend to the Government. It must be remembered that it was not this Parliament, not the Opposition, not any element of the Parliament other than the Government which moved in August 1973 that the Parliament should set up a joint committee which had as its special reference the responsibility of reporting on the constitutional development of self government in the Northern Territory. One of the main terms of reference relative to this legislation was as follows: 
The Committee is to examine and report on measures that might bc taken in the long and short term to provide the Northern Territory with responsible self government in relation to local affairs- including appropriate divisions of legislative and executive responsibility at the national and territorial or other level- having regard to: 
the Government's - 
I emphasise the words 'the Government's'-  wish to establish a fully elected Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory by 3 1 December 1 974. 
Before the Committee could report, the Government introduced this legislation in another place, which seeks to take control of land within a radius of 96.5 kilometres of Darwin. It is hard to determine how that figure was arrived at. I have been led to believe, on reliable information, that that radius takes in part of Bathurst Island, including 4 Aboriginal missions. Does the Government want to have the power to acquire that area for urban development? 
The report of the Committee was presented to the Parliament after this Bill was presented in another place. Recommendation No. 10 which appears at page xii of the report states:  the transfer of functions of local significance on the passage of the necessary legislation in the Australian Parliament and the resolution of arrangements for the Public Service . . . plus payroll tax and urban land. 
So the Committee set up by the Government recommended in its report that there be control of urban land by the newly and fully elected Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. The Committee, when explaining why it proposed the diversion of executive responsibility, stated in paragraph 66 at page 37 of the report: 
In support of the views expressed in the previous paragraph, the witnesses emphasised the inherent inefficiencies of control from Canberra and the disinterest in Territory affairs by a largely transient Public Service in the Territory. They also generally took the view that the maximum benefit for Australia and the Territory would be obtained by using local knowledge and experience in the social and economic programs to bc carried out. 
I do not think that people will argue against the fact that the acquisition, provision and pricing of urban land will be done more in the interests of the people of the Territory if it is done by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly who are responsible to the electors. 
I do not want to delay the Senate for long on this matter. I think the Senate will see that not only the Opposition but also the Committee have struck the right note on behalf of the people of the Northern Territory in proposing the amendment to the legislation which will have the effect of putting this matter in the hands of the Legislative Assembly for debate. I emphasise that the Committee was a joint Committee made up of members from all parties from both Houses, with the exception of  Senator Steele  Hall's Party. I also emphasise that the Government has gone about this matter in a wrong way. The timing of this legislation makes me believe that the Government wanted to put something over the people of the Territory before the Committee's report was released. The Government has failed in its timing. It has given the Senate the opportunity to say: 'You have gone so far, but you will go no further until the Legislative Assembly which you set up and which has no members from your Party represented on it has a chance to decide the question of the stabilisation and the acquisition of land '. 
The Government seems to be in a complete muddle. Instead of waiting on the report, considering its recommendations and then going into conference with the Legislative Assembly and making the rules, it has gone from one thing to another. The Government wants to grab land and control it from Canberra. I suppose that half of the public servants who make decisions have never seen the land or know the people or the conditions. While this matter was being debated in another place a Press statement was issued on 14 November by the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Dr Patterson).  In that statement he said that he would refer to the full elected Legislative Assembly, a decision on a request by Darwin nudists to establish a free beach in the area, but he will not give that Assembly the power to legislate and control urban land in Darwin. We believe he should do so. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Service and Property inform me as soon as possible whether the Commonwealth Government has purchased the Hobart Trades Hall building for approximately $420,000? Was the valuation of this building prior to the Commonwealth offer to purchase it $250,000? Is it a fact that the best offer from a private enterprise buyer was $300,000, indicating a gift of some $124,000 to the Australian Labor Party? What was the Commonwealth valuation and who made the valuation? For what purpose is the building to be used? 
I am surprised that the Government rejects out of hand this Bill which has been introduced by  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack and which provides that certain salary increases which we disapproved on 25 July 1974 be brought into effect from the time that the Bill receives royal assent. I remind the Senate that we took a serious step in July of this year. I honestly believe we felt that we had a duty to put up ourselves and other people in high office as an example. We made an example of a small section of the community, but we made people in high office with great responsibility, if I may use the expression, the guinea pigs of salary rises in an economy that looked to be going the wrong way. The Government decided that the measure would not become law. Only history will relate- I believe even historians will differ- whether the action taken by the Opposition Parties was wise or correct and whether the decision of the Government not to go on with any aspect of that legislation was right. 
It will be agreed by all that because of the action that was taken a number of families have been disadvantaged. Because one tribunal made findings for the upper echelons that were not acceptable and because in the time since that happened other wage fixing authorities have increased the salaries of junior officers in line with inflation, many amazing anomalies exist between statutory officers and their staffs. I believe all honourable senators and people who take an interest in economics and the welfare of the people of this nation are aware of this matter.  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack 's Bill provides that a tribunal's findings which were knocked back on 25 July 1974 will come into effect as soon as the Bill receives royal assent. That cannot possibly happen until some time in February or March, or perhaps even later. It all depends on when and whether the people in another place would pass the measure and submit it for royal assent. 
It is quite fair to say that if the Bill were passed and received royal assent the salaries to be paid to the people envisged in the legislation would be paid in mid- 1975 in the terms of the Remuneration Tribunal's suggestions that were made in May or June of 1 974. 1 do not think for a moment that the salaries would be decreased, but we do not know what will happen in the economy. 
We have our fears. We set an example. For my part I supported setting the example by a deferral for 6 months. Before this Parliament meets again 6 months will have elapsed since the deferral. I believe that in fairness to all those affected by the legislation, their salary position should be reviewed by the same tribunal which this Parliament set up and to which it gave authority and responsibility to review the salaries of these people. My amendment is very simple. On the motion that this Bill be now read a second time, which has been opposed by the Government, I move: 
Leave out all words after 'That', insert 'the Remuneration Bill (No. 2) 1974 be not further considered because the Senate is of the opinion that the Remuneration Tribunal should report again'. 
In other words, I am saying that when the Tribunal makes a report it will be able to say, firstly to the Government which receives the report and then to the Parliament, what the salaries, allowances and financial conditions of employment for people working under this legislation should be in the year 1975. It will then be up to the Government and the Parliament- particularly the Senate- to accept their grave responsibility either to accept the Tribunal 's findings in total or in an amended form or to toss it out again. It would be my sincere hope that on a matter of principle the Senate would not reject the findings. I am speaking from a personal point of view on this matter; it has not been canvassed by me within my Party. I believe that if the Tribunal reports again and the Senate refuses to accept any of its findings, it would be the end of such tribunals. We would have to go searching for a method of deciding the salaries of people who come under the jurisdiction of this legislation. 
I believe my amendment is a simple one; it is easily understood. It is based on good, hard facts. If it is passed and the Government puts it into operation, then on whatever scale the Tribunal reports to the Parliament we will at least be doing an honest, fair thing by both the people who pay taxes and those who receive the salaries and allowances which come under the jurisdiction of this legislation. 
The Opposition is supporting this measure. It represents a continuation of and a slight improvement on legislation introduced by the McMahon Government in 1972 to help fruit growers in Australia. The scheme is known as the tree fell and clear scheme, or the fruit industry reconstruction scheme. It is different from the normal farming reconstruction scheme. Money is provided in 2 ways, firstly, for people in the fruit industry who find that owing to the sad state of the industry and lack of markets overseas, I believe caused mostly by the loss to us of our European markets, they have to get out of it. A loan is provided but that loan becomes a grant after 5 years if the recipient has remained out of the industry. Secondly, the Bill also provides money for those who want to partially get out of the industry. 
I must say briefly that it has always disturbed me that we have been paying people, particularly in Tasmania, to get out of the production of apples and pears and other orchard fruit. I still believe- I do not blame any federal or state government for this situation, nor even the marketing authorities and private enterprise. I still believe that world markets could be found for our fruit. I would much rather see a scheme which subsidised the production of healthy food by shipping it to markets in developing and poorer countries under subsidy so that the growers get not a rich but a fair return for their crop. I visualise all the countries surrounding the Indian Ocean- an ocean to which all of us should be turning our attention- and I visualise the millions of our friends in Asia benefiting from such a scheme. 
I know the problems in exporting Tasmanian apples to Japan because of codlin moth. I believe the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  and his Department are doing all they can to overcome this problem so that the Japanese market can be made available to the Australian apple and pear industry. The scheme has been successful if success is helping fruit growers out of the profession of growing fruit into some other form of primary production. I cannot speak with authority on areas outside Tasmania with respect to fruit growing, but the Tasmanian soil and climate are such that orchard lands suitable for growing the best fruit in the world can be turned to small farming- to dairy farming, crop farming, pig farming and other pursuits. Therefore at least I can say the tree pull reconstruction scheme enables Tasmanian orchardists to leave the industry. 
I do not believe this is the time or the measure on which to debate more fully what should and could be done for the fruit industry in Australia. However, I emphasise that we should be producing food for a starving world, not spending money to help people to stop producing vital and necessary food. It is possible that people will say that we cannot sell apples and pears in this country or that country. The reason could be that no one has put the fruit at a reasonable price into the streets of the cities of these heavily populated areas. I would much rather see government, State or Federal, and private enterprise come forward with a scheme for putting on markets in countries that need food, the health giving fruit that we grow. But more of that at another time and place. I congratulate the Minister on extending the scheme through 1975. 1 hope he and his Department will give great thought to improving the industry in other respects. 
I suggest that it is dangerous to name the month. We do not always meet in August. I suggest that  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's words 'at the end of 6 months or on the first sitting day thereafter' stand. 
Motion (by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) agreed to: 
That any changes made to the Standing Orders be given a trial period as sessional orders, and that the question of their adoption as Standing Orders be an order of the day for the first sitting day after 6 months. 
Seantor DOUGLAS McCLELLAND (New South Wales- Manager of Government Business in the Senate) (4.50)- I direct the Committee's attention to item 1, which relates to the general aspect of questions being directed to senators who are chairmen of committees. At question time from time to time questions without notice have been directed to senators in their role as chairmen of Senate standing or select committees. The Standing Orders Committee has considered this matter, and on behalf of the Committee I will move a motion in accordance with the Committee's recommendation. The Committee report states: 
With the development of the committee system, a practice has grown up of directing questions without notice to the chairmen of committees relating to the activities of their committees. The committee recommends that all such questions should be upon notice, unless by leave of the Senate. To formalise practice, and give effect to the recommendation, the following new Standing Order is recommended: 98a. Questions may be put to the  Chairman  of a Committee relating to the activities of that Committee: Provided that- 
unless leave of the Senate is granted for them to be asked without notice, such questions may only be asked upon notice; 
they shall not attempt to interfere with the Committee 's work or anticipate its report; and 
the  Chairman  shall answer such questions only on the basis that he answers on behalf of the Committee and not himself. ' 
I move: 
That the recommendation contained in item 1 be agreed to. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (4.52)-I want to say at the outset that good work has been done by the Standing Orders Committee. With your indulgence,  Mr Chairman,  perhaps I could get a little off the target of item 1 . As one who sat on the Standing Orders Committee and tried to convene meetings of the Committee for many years I think that much has been accomplished in the work behind the 2 reports that have been presented today. I am in favour of a new standing order 98A., and I support the view that questions can be put to a  chairman  of a committee. I will deal with paragraph (a) of proposed new standing order 98A. in a moment, but I agree with paragraph (b), which states that questions shall not attempt to interfere with the Committee's work or anticipate its report. Paragraph (c) states that the  chairman  shall answer such questions only on the basis that he answers on behalf of the committee and not of himself. There is a slightly grey area in paragraph (c) because in answering a question he may presume to anticipate the report of a committee and he may find subsequently that a member of the committee will repudiate him. I am not going to the barricades on that, but I am most concerned with the proposition which states: 
Questions may be put to the  chairman  of a committee relating to the activities of that committee: Provided that- 
unless leave of the Senate is granted for them to be asked without notice, such questions may only be asked upon notice; 
I hold the view quite strongly that such questions should be asked only upon notice. We all know from our experience in the Senate- some of us over a longer period than others- that the asking for, giving, receiving or rejecting leave is of essence capricious because, as we know, under 
Standing Orders it requires only one dissenting voice for leave to be refused. Situations may develop from that circumstance. I could quote from Hansard what has happened in the past, but I do not want to do that because it would tend to destroy a little of the non-party, cooperative manner in which we are all handling these submissions. Let me talk in a hypothetical way. Let us take as a hypothetical proposition something which all honourable senators will know in their own hearts could have happened. 
That in paragraph (a) of proposed new Standing Order 98a. leave out the words: 'unless leave of the Senate is granted for them to be asked without notice, '. 
Paragraph (a) would then read:  such Questions may only be asked upon notice: 
Proposed new Standing Order 98a would then read: 
Questions may be put to the  chairman  of a committee relating to the activities of that committee: Provided that- 
such Questions may only be asked upon notice: 
Paragraphs (b) and (c) would then follow as they appear in the report. I think that in any event that would help to remove a little of the difficulty that could emerge under paragraph (c). As I say, I am not going to the barricades to delete paragraph (c). All our committees are non- party committees in a sense that they work as a team and politics never intrude into the committee work, but it would help to strengthen paragraph (c) if any question to the  chairman  of a committee were put on notice. Quite properly the  chairman  of the committee would have an informal meeting of the committee that day, and with the leave of the Senate, he would be able to give an answer the next day. I am frightened of some questions being asked and leave being given, and some subsequent questions, even supplementary questions, being asked and for some peculiar reason- somebody may have a sore ear or may not be happy with the question asked or the answer given by the  chairman-  leave not being granted. That would do irreparable damage to the work the committees are doing. If I may say so, the committees of the Senate are doing wonderful work. I do not think we should put them at any risk. We should not put a  chairman  at any risk of embarrassment because leave is given to answer one question and then capriciously leave is not given to answer a second question. 
-I desire to support the amendment because I believe this is the only really sensible parliamentary way of dealing with the situation. There are many times when somebody would come along to a  chairman  of a committee and say: 'Tomorrow I will ask you such and such a question.' That is the same as we do to Ministers. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber do this. We get an answer that day. If we do not give a Minister a tip the question is put on notice and it takes weeks to get an answer. As of today 95 questions out of 428 are unanswered since 9 July last year.  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has pointed out his fear about obtaining leave. If  Senator Milliner  has to ask for leave to ask me as the  chairman  of a committee a question and if I do not want him to ask it I say no and the  President  says: 'Leave is not granted. Put the question on notice.' Under this proposed standing order the  chairman  of a committee has to fulfil the rights of paragraph (c). He has the opportunity to refuse to answer straight away or to give an answer. I believe that that is the right way of going about the matter. 
I am worried by this proposed new standing order because I do not think a correct interpretation of standing order 164 is given in the supporting paper. It is my understanding that senators call for a division because there is a tradition that in a parliament, when so required, members stand and be counted. There are many motions moved and amendments made in relation to which it is the desire of an individual, a party or a group that the public know how every member in the Senate voted or did not vote. Therefore, I believe that we would be giving away the right of any honourable senator to make the Senate members stand and be counted to have it go into the records whether such members voted and, if they did vote, how they voted. 
There is another point that I believe to be in favour of my supposition. It is this: When a division is not called, the vote is taken on the voices. A senator could receive a letter such as one I received recently abusing me up hill and down dale. The letter stated that although I was  Deputy Chairman  of the Senate Select Committee on the Metric System of Weights and Measures I did not vote for the adoption of the metric system. This was because the report was adopted by the unanimous vote of the Senate. No one called for a division and no names appeared in the record. I had to write a long letter explaining parliamentary procedures. Therefore, I believe- I do not want to labour the point- that we must retain the right to have the names of those who vote this way or that way, or who absent themselves from voting, put in the record. 
 Like  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack I completely argue against and reject the assertion that by asking for a division after the Presiding Officer has indicated that either the ayes or the noes have it an honourable senator is challenging the hearing, the sense or the fairness of the  President.  I was going to say it is utter nonsense but I will be kinder than that; that is something with which I cannot agree. My reason for calling for a division is to find out which honourable senators are present and which way they are voting. There is the run-off of whether the  Chairman  or the Presiding Officer was right in his decision. It is wrong to expect the Presiding Officer to trust his hearing facilities. If the Presiding Officer had to do so in many cases he would never give a decision because honourable senators hardly ever indicate their attitude to the question unless their tempers are frayed. For goodness sake leave standing order 164 as it is and interpret it as it is. It should not be interpreted in the way other people would wish to have it interpreted. 
Whenever the  President  states, on putting a Question, that in his opinion the Ayes or the Noes (as the case may be) have it, his opinion may be challenged by Senators calling Divide'. 
From memory, when a Minister has a Bill to present to this chamber he stands up and moves the motion that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Bill being passed through all its stages without delay. The person occupying the Chair puts the motion and he says: 'Those in favour say aye, to the contrary no, the ayes have it'. The Bill is read a first time. The Minister then makes his second reading speech and the debate is adjourned. 
Or not adjourned, as the Opposition wishes. If we want to be time saving and not time serving, I cannot follow how we will benefit from this suggestion. I ask in all seriousness whether the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  will give us a hypothetical example of how he would introduce a Bill that would be able to be passed through all its stages without delay. How can you save time? I just cannot follow it. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (8.8)-  Mr Chairman,  if you will permit me to make an observation on this matter, it seems to me that the present practice- and I am speaking personally on this matter because I did not raise it with the Standing Orders Committee- is an irrelevancy because it is the duty of the Presiding Officer to prevent the Senate from being taken by surprise, and the Presiding Officer is able historically to discharge the duty of preventing the Senate from being taken by surprise because any Bills coming from the House of Representatives come by message, and the messages are directed to the  President  of the Senate. By agreement between the Leader of the Opposition and the Leader of the Government in the Senate, the custom is that the messages repose with the  Clerk  at the Table who holds them, as it were, in custody for the  President. 
The reality is that the Senate should be, and undoubtedly is, protected by its  President  because a message cannot be read to the Senate except by the  President  who is the only recipient of messages from the House of Representatives and the only person who can convey messages to the House of Representatives. I agree that what is recommended would cut out what might amount to circumlocution. If there is any concern as to whether the Senate can be protected against surprise, the fact is that the Presiding Officer is there to protect the Senate and in fact should protect the Senate. I doubt whether any  President  would take any other attitude than that it is his duty to protect the Senate. 
I agree with everything that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has said. I will not repeat it. I would point out that if we are unwise enough to carry the motion, the present standing order 102 would not be of any value whatever. No honourable senator would be able to ask for his own questions on notice to be answered in the House. Therefore, it is foolish to think he could ask for his friends' questions to be answered in the House. I wonder whether something almost underhand is creeping in. I have examined the Standing Orders and I do not recall seeing a phrase such as is contained in proposed new standing order 103 which states: 
The reply to a Question on notice shall be given by delivering the same to the  Clerk. 
I presume that the Minister, his staff, his advisers or a public servant will deliver a copy of the answer to the  Clerk.  Proposed new standing order 103 states further: 
A copy thereof shall be supplied to the  Senator who  has asked the Question. . . . 
How gracious! The line of communication from the Minister to his staff, to the  Clerk,  and to the senator who asked the question would be 'a copy'. I asked a question in October. The Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  was good enough to give me the opportunity to ask that question this afternoon. I let that opportunity go by but I did receive a number of copies of the answer. 
The custom in this place for some time has been that any honourable senator can get in the voice of the Minister an answer to a question which has been placed on notice and he can also receive numerous copies of the answer so that the media, if it so desires, can publish the answer. In that way the public can become aware of the answer to the question that the honourable senator has raised on their behalf. If proposed new standing orders 102 and 103 are passed I am fearful that I will receive only one copy of the answer to any questions I may place on notice. Where have I got the support staff to make other copies in order to give them to the media and to send them to people who have asked me to ask these questions? Is this an effort to silence or handicap honourable senators and to prevent them from publicising the answers to questions that they have put in this national Parliament? I know that answers to questions placed on notice go into the Hansard record, but if honourable senators try to post a copy of Hansard to an elector who lives across the street it will cost 33c to do so. 
I feel quite confident that this new item will be passed and will have a trial period of 6 months. If we press for a division, as this matter has not been caucused and the vote would be a nonparty vote, honourable senators will come into this chamber without being aware of the subject we are debating. They will have a look at where Charlie is sitting and we will not achieve the result that we should in the national Parliament. I am right on  Senator Cavanagh  's side in this matter. I believe there is creeping in an influence to silence or handicap members of the Senate in order to prevent them from getting information and providing it to the public. I am not allowed to cast a reflection on a vote of the Senate but  Senator Cavanagh  got away with it, and I support what he said about that too. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be laid on the table of the Senate all papers- including all correspondence, valuations, assessments and statements of account- which are in the possession of the Government and which in any way relate to the negotiations or transactions between the Government and Hobart Trades Hall officials in respect of the purchase by the Government of the Hobart Trades Hall. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Will he obtain from his colleague a statement giving details of reasons for the non-payment of travelling and other expenses incurred by private citizens assisting either the Schools Commission or the Department of Education on committees such as the Building Priorities and Finance Committee and those committees which deal with libraries and science facilities for independent schools? Is it a fact that some of these persons are retired people and have not received payment of expenses since September or October 1974? Will he find out when payments will be made? 
I move: 
That there be laid on the table of the Senate all papersincluding all correspondence, valuations, assessments and statements of account- which are in the possession of the Government and which in any way relate to the negotiations or transactions between the Government and Hobart Trades Hall officials in respect of the purchase by the Government of the Hobart Trades Hall. 
I have listened to a lot of this debate. I wish to refer to the clause before the Committee at the moment because I think the record should be put straight at this late hour. To my mind, there has been far too much bitter and unfounded criticism of individual members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory and of that house of Parliament as a corporate body. Because this debate is being broadcast I think it should be clearly understood that the Government now in power set up the Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Northern Territory to inquire into and report to Parliament on a possible form of selfgovernment for that Territory. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. 
I wish to speak to the point of order. 
I do not want to delay this debate. My purpose in speaking to the point of order is that the amendment refers to the Administration of the Northern Territory acting with the advice of the Administrator's Council, which is the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. I want to make the record clear as to how that Assembly came into being and why it should be used as the voice of the people in respect of the clause. 

 -Mr Chairman, I believe that your remarks indicated that I was in order. I want to say why I am keen on supporting clauses that allow representation and advice being received from the Administrator's Council. It is because the Government set up a committee of inquiry. The Government wanted self-government for the Northern Territory. It quite rightly read the public evidence given at those proceedings. It decided to call an election for 19 seats at a time before the Joint Committee on the Northern Territory could finish its hearing and present a report. It well knew that. The report was in the hands of the Government last year. In the reconstruction of Darwin after the disaster the elected people of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly should have a big voice in all the decisions and in the appeals relating to the rebuilding of the northern city. If one bit of evidence came out as clear as crystal before the Committee- it was the unanimous recommendation of the Committeeit was that there was far too much delay in getting decisions on matters which affected Darwin in the good days when they had to rely on control from Canberra. In these dark days that delay and that control will be more harmful than it was in the good days before the disaster. I cannot understand why democratic Australian Labor Party members of Parliament want the Public Service ministerial control from Canberra in a place where immediate and on the spot decisions must be made. 
I make one other point. I do not want to delay this Bill. I want to see it become law. We are not legislating for a Minister,  Dr Patterson,  to make decisions. We are legislating for the Minister who will be making decisions in the next 5 years. I have no time for people on my side or the other side who legislate thinking it is all right to put it in these words: 'It is all right while we are in power'. The Government should be legislating in case the wrong person got into power. Having set out to give the Territory self-government, having beaten the gun by deciding how many electorates there would be and then suffering a mighty defeat at the election, this Government is now using the Bill in an effort to criticise and to detract from the ability, sincerity and effectiveness of present members of the Assembly. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Education ask the Minister for Education to make inquiries and later inform the Senate whether, as alleged to me, there is a shortage of trained personnel and necessary teaching facilities in the Australian Capital Territory to help slow readers, particularly those in the 6 to 12 years age group? Can the Minister hold out any hope to the parents of these children? I understand that there is a cure for their handicap if specially trained teachers are made available. 
Speaking of accommodation, I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property. Will he as soon as practicable inform the Senate whether it is a fact that the tenants of the new Australian Government owned Hobart Trades Hall are representatives of unaffiliated unions often referred to in Tasmania as left wing or anti-Harradine unions who are not allowed in the new Trades Hall? When did the tenancies commence? On what basis are rentals being charged, and which firm or company acted for the unions which have obtained these tenancies from the Department of Services and Property? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, follows the question asked by my colleague  Senator Wright  about Medibank. One would think that one should ask the question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health, but I think I am correct, under this jet lag Government, in addressing my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Will the Minister obtain for the Senate as soon as is practicable a statement showing what advertising agency or agencies is or are handling the more than $ 1 m advertising racket for Medibank and whether the agency or agencies is or are multinational or Australian owned? 
-I move: 
That there shall be laid on the Table of the Senate all papers- including all correspondence, valuations, assessments and statements of account- which are in the possession of the Government and which in any way relate to the negotiations or transactions between the Government and Hobart Trades Hall officials in respect of the purchase by the Government of the Hobart Trades Hall. 
Firstly, I thank the Senate for allowing this motion to come further up the notice paper and to be dealt with today. This shows that the Senate, acting in a non-party fashion, attaches some importance to a motion of this type. Moving this motion at the close of a quiet Thursday afternoon in a 'crowded' Senate chamber is most suitable because it reflects my whole attitude to the matter since I first raised it on 29 October 1 974 when I asked a question that appears on page 2022 of Hansard for that day. At that time I wanted particulars similar to those covered in my motion. No reply was given to me and no indication was given to me that the Government had even taken any notice of the question. On 1 1 December many people in Hobart were wondering why I was not pressing to get this information about which they were concerned. The Senate was to adjourn within 24 hours of that time, to my knowledge until mid-February or later this month. Therefore on 1 1 December I asked a question which contained the figures I knew on 29 October in respect of the sale price, the highest bid by private enterprise for this unadvertised sale and the figures for the 2 earlier valuations, and made the accusation that there appeared to be a profit to the Trades Hall Council of more than $ 1 20,000, paid by the taxpayers, to an organisation which had some very close affiliations with the party in Government in the Australian Parliament. When I put that question to  Senator Willesee  on 1 1 December, as reported at page 3358 of Hansard, he said: 
The answer is yes, I will find out as soon as possible and let the honourable senator know. 
I had asked if the figures quoted in the question were correct. 
As this time I have had no acknowledgment that the Department or the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  has seen that question which I asked on 11 December following my original question on 29 October. On 13 December, after the Senate had risen, I received in my office a telex from the Minister in reply to my question of 29 October. The Minister, playing the game for me as far as publicity was concerned, issued to the Press a telex copy of the answer to my question. The 'Mercury' headline stated: 

 Mr Daly says sale price reasonable. 
It is obvious that my question of 1 1 December, in which I stated the facts as known to me on 29 October, made it imperative for the Minister and for the Department to come at least partly clean and to say that I was right in the figures which I gave. I shall not read the reply in full. I have given the Hansard record. But the Minister, in his reply, said that it was a reasonable valuation of $400,000 which the Commonwealth valuer- I presume he means in Tasmania- had placed on this Trades Hall building. Before the sale was known anyone knew that the building was valued at $250,000. 
It was said that it was not unusual in cases such as this, where the asking price of $475,000 was so much greater than the price set by the Commonwealth valuer of $400,000 for the Government to pay $425,000. This Government has set up a whole department. It has been crying out: We will reduce the price of land. We will stop the developers making profits. ' I do not suppose the Trades Hall Council could be termed a developer of a city. 1 assure the Senate it is a fact that the Commonwealth Government paid $425,000 for this block of land and a building which was bulldozed when the nearest private enterprise party which was interested offered $300,000. This situation has caused an upsurge in the price of land in the inner city area of Hobart. This may be Government policy but I have always been told that the Government wanted to keep land prices down. 
I went to the trouble of getting a professional valuer to give me his idea of this sale. First of all, 1 emphasise that as far as I can gather the sale of the land and of the building was never made public. It was not advertised. Tenders were not called. Nor was a real estate agent in Hobert informed that the land was up for sale. 
Apparently. That is why I want the file. The insinuation is that somebody from the Trades Hall Council got in touch with the Commonwealth Government, I presume through the Department of Services and Property, and said: 'Will you buy this? We want to buy a lovely old home that is used for a reception centre out in a distant suburb. ' Negotiations went on. As far as I know no qualified professional valuer was asked to value the land for the Trades Hall Council and say that its asking price should be $475,000. This is as far as I know. It is not one of my duties as a senator to accuse and to make insinuations. But I do have every right to probe deeply if the people I represent are disturbed because of an activity by a government which is so out of tune with normal governmental and business transactions and customs. The valuer stated. 
The sales taken into account by the Commonwealth valuers were those effected in Murray Street near and on the corner of Davey Street of much smaller holdings. These sales could analyse at $16.20 per square foot for sites of 4-6000 square feet in areas. 
The subject site contains almost 20 000 square feet and it is assumed that the full benefit of value - 
To which I shall refer- 
As is usually adopted- was given to the owner of this property. In this instance $20 per square foot must have been utilised to arrive at the valuation of $400,000. 
The sale price was $425,000. The report continues. 
It has normally been our experience to find the larger holdingswith their correspondingly large price content- to be purchased at a lesser rate per square foot on analysis than smaller properties. However, the Commonwealth valuers did not apparently follow this procedure and felt satisfied at their eventual assessment of $400,000. 
I want to know the answer to that statement. I want to know whether there is any correspondence telling anybody to pay $425,000 for this block of land without reference to the public, to Parliament and, as far as I can understand- I am pretty well informed on this matter- to any recognised estate agent or valuer in Hobart outside the Commonwealth service. 
Thank you,  Sir Magnus.  It is mentioned that suitability or value to the buyer is one of the reasons given for the higher price. The site purchased from the Trades Hall in Davey Street, Hobart, is admittedly about 200 metres from the new Tasmanian Government Supreme Court buildings which are under construction. The Court of Requests is in Campbell Street, some 10 blocks away. The Court of Petty Sessions is in Liverpool Street, some six to seven blocks away. The Licensing Courts are within two or three blocks and the Bankruptcy Court, the only Federal court operating in Hobart in its own building, is in the Commonwealth Centre, two to three blocks away from the present site. People outside Parliament in the legal profession tell me that this site will not add one iota of convenience to them, to the media or to the public who may have to attend these courts or other courts in Hobart. It is not as if the Government is establishing a special centre for all the courts in the varying jurisdictions. The hard cold fact is that the Government, by its action, has contravened its publicly announced policy by obviously raising the price of land in the inner section of Hobart. As far as I can learn the Government has bought land secretly and privately from an organisation with which it is a political bedfellow. The Government has taken no action between 29 October and 1 1 December to answer my questions, when I told it the facts. I moved the formal motion for the papers to be tabled so that there would be no dirt thrown. I always agree with Confucius who said that he who throws dirt loses ground. I wanted this done quietly and painlessly. But the Government has made me speak. I have spoken with restraint and, as far as I am concerned. I have spoken the absolute truth after examining, questioning, inquiring and receiving information. Because of what I have done and said, I believe that the Senate must be able to examine every document concerning this sale and purchase. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  The motion requires a seconder. Is the motion seconded? 
I understand that copies of the message from the House of Representatives and from  His Excellency  the Administrator have been circulated to all honourable senators. The amendment recommended by  His Excellency  is as follows: 
Clause 3, omit 'court' and substitute 'a court'. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government who represents the Treasurer. In respect of the 10 per cent surcharge on tax payable on property income, the Minister told me in reply to an earlier question that it does not apply to persons whose taxable income does not exceed $5,000 per annum. Will the Minister, as soon as is practicable, inform the Senate what is to be the position of taxpayers with incomes above $5,000 per annum which are derived in part from investment of their own savings and in part from lump sum superannuation payments paid to them prior to the introduction of the new surcharge on unearned income? In replying to the question will he take note of the fact that it has been announced that weekly or monthly superannuation payments are not to be taxed as unearned income? 
Can the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate whether any Minister or senior public servant is taking, has taken or will take any real action to end the continuing transport strike which, I understand, is an inter-union dispute that does not concern conditions of pay or work but which is causing great inconvenience, hardship and expense to the citizens of and visitors to Canberra? 
I ask the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation: Has he yet been able to get an answer from the Minister for Social Security to a question that I asked recently concerning the very expensive advertising campaign for Medibank? 
My question also is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been emphasising the humanitarian aspect of Australia's interest in Vietnam. I ask: Is it a fact, as reported in a section of today's Press, that the Australian Government did not send aircraft to Vietnam for humanitarian relief purposes recently until after a request was made by the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Special Minister of State. In spite of the fact that a request from the national headquarters of the Returned Services League for Australian Government financial support to send a delegation of Australian war veterans to take part in the sixtieth anniversary celebrations of the epic landing at Gallipoli by Australian and New Zealand soldiers on 25 April 1915 was refused, will he make representations for a reconsideration of the decision not to assist and point out that the Turkish Government is playing a major and generous role in providing hospitality to the visitors? Will the Minister point out to his colleague that the pilgrimage is not to glorify war but to pay respect to the memory of the deeds that put Australia on the road to nationhood and that Anzac Day will always be remembered for the beneficial effects that have flowed and will continue to flow from the heroism and example of our servicemen of that era? 
I strongly oppose clause 1 7 of the Bill. It amazes me that the Australian Labor Party should always tell the people that it is the workers ' party and the low income group party. Nearly every measure that comes into this chamber involves increased costs to be paid to the Government. The Government says to the worker, the pensioner and the person on a low income: 'You want to question some of these so-called Liberal people who are enrolled in a swinging electorate. You used to be able to do it for 50c. You are not costing the Government anything because the staff are there and they must work their normal hours. But we will make you pay 4 times the amount. If you want to question the enrolment of an individual, you on a pension, you on a low income, you on unemployment benefit, will pay $2.' 
It appears to me that this Government has lost all sense of proportion and has lost all feeling for and knowledge of the wishes of people in the lower income groups. Further clauses will give me an opportunity to say precisely the same, although I will not refer specifically to them now. The Government has lost sight of the value of money to poor people, lt has also lost sight of the idea of protecting the rights of every Australian to question the right of a person- whether he be a Liberal voter, a Labor voter, a Country Party voter, an Independent voter, a Liberal Movement voter or an informal voter- to be on the roll. I believe that the Government should be ashamed of itself for trying to press this amendment to the Act. 
I speak briefly on this, because we should do anything we can that would take out of the Electoral Act the problem that we faced last time at the double dissolution, which was called understandably quickly. We in Tasmania had a candidate,  Mr Michael  Hodgman, who was a member of the Legislative Council and was finally endorsed as our candidate for Denison. If the Government had gone ahead, as it could have done under the law and issued the writs or taken whatever action was necessary on a particular night, Michael Hodgman would not have been able to contest the election, because 14 days would have been up. But as my Leader  Senator Withers  said,  Senator Willesee,  now in charge of the Bill, was thankfully in charge of the Bill that night, and he took action within his own Party to give us a guarantee that the machinery would not be put in action to prevent  Mr Hodgman  from resigning from his seat and contesting the election. We will not always have these favourable, friendly and gentlemanly activities. 
Parliament may not be sitting at the time, and I believe there is a lot of merit, if we are to make this national Parliament open to those who want to stand for election, in having some form of procedure that will enable the member of another parliament to contest an election either independently or as an endorsed candidate and, if not elected, to retain the seat he had in the other parliament. But I quite agree with  Senator Poyser  that there needs to be a very careful look at this from the legal, constitutional and Electoral Act angles. The result of a Senate or a House of Representatives election in a close seat is not made known until 1 7 or 2 1 days after the date of the election, and the pay of a person elected starts from midnight on the date of the election. Therefore, the member of the State parliament so elected would be entitled to Commonwealth Parliamentary pay from the date of the election and may have, because the end of the month had come, received pay. At least he would have been due for pay for his State seat, and that I would think would be ultra vires the Constitution. 
Therefore, in layman's language, one would have to say that a candidate who was a member of a State parliament should sign some form of declaration that his pay as a State member would cease as from the date of his election to the Federal Parliament, and if he had received a cheque during the course of waiting for the declaration of the poll that would be returned. In 1953 I was a temporary public servant on the staff of the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania, and I got a signal that the Parliament had on that Tuesday night, 3 March, appointed me by secret ballot to fill a vacancy in the Senate. As my leader, the father of  Senator Michael  Townley, came along and congratulated me, having had a little confidence that I was going to be elected I had my resignation from my position of temporary public servant as secretary to the Leader of the Opposition signed and in the hands of  Mr Townley.  In May I stood for election again and won a long-term seat. That is the best of being popular, but unfortunately having won that long-term seat I did not take my seat until 1 July. As the local paper the 'Mercury' said,  Senator Marriott  who was a senator is now senatorelect and will be a senator on 1 July. ' I had to inform my bank manager that I would not be paid until 1 August. But there is a problem for public servants and members of Parliament, and I do not know that it would be wise to put such a new thought into legislation at this stage, because of the traps I see on the legal side. However, I hope something can be done to put it in the legislation if it is humanly possible. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. In view of the fact that the Government, as a result of its tariff policy, has introduced income maintenance schemes for workers displaced because of the influx of cheap goods into Australia and has, I believe, made substantial grants of money to some big industries hit by this policy, will he inform the Senate whether small family businesses that can show that they have had to close down because of this policy can claim any compensation or financial assistance from the Government? 

 Senator JAMES McCLELLANDAssistance to firms or companies affected by actions of the Government of the type referred to by the honourable senator has not been made available only to some big industries as suggested by him. Any business, no matter how small, which can demonstrate that it has had to close down because of any one of a number of prescribed causes, such as the 25 per cent tariff cut or various other decisions of the Industries Assistance Commission, may make an application for closure compensation. In fact, I understand that some 100 applications have been made by firms which could be called small, in the sense that they employed fewer than 20 people, and that some 30 of those applications have been granted. As I said, the company does not have to be a large one. In addition to that, the proprietors of small companies and their employees, no matter how few there may be, are eligible for income maintenance in just the same way as employees of large companies. Such employees or proprietors also are eligible to apply for retraining. I mention, in closing my remarks, that recently the Prime Minister referred the whole question of structural adjustment and income maintenance to the Priorities Review Staff. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the many complaints being made about aircraft noise over the city of Launceston, which under current procedures is under the flight path of nearly all aircraft approaching and leaving Launceston airport, will the Minister ask his colleague the Minister for Transport, the Honourable Charles Jones, whether any suitable flight paths avoiding the city, which has very busy aircraft traffic, could be safely and economically introduced, particularly during the late night and early morning hours? 
I always remember  Sir Robert  Menzies saying that a government elected to Parliament under a certain system of voting never changes that system, because people who do not like it bring down their wrath on the government at the next election. Regarding whether there is a so-called donkey vote- and I hate that expression- if one looked up the records of the 1966 election, when Prime Minister Holt was returned to power with the biggest majority the non-Labor parties have had in my term in the Parliament, one would see, I believe, that 23 new people were elected as members of the Liberal-Country Party coalition. All senators will agree that, in certain seats throughout Australia, one could put up a person with a name beginning with any letter and he would win a Labor, Country Party or Liberal Party seat as the case may be. Quite a large percentage of seats in Australia are or have been semi-blue ribbon or blue ribbon seats but in the 1 966 election the people of Australia- they were not changing a government, but were re-electing it to office with a new Prime Minister- elected, out of a total of 123 members, 23 new members to the Parliament from the non-Labor Parties. Some of these were the result of people such as  Mr Mackinnon  and others whose names do not come readily to mind having resigned from the Parliament. 
New names in politics came forward and people such as Irwin, the member for Mitchell, were elected in the middle of the field in proLabor seats. There were many other examples. If one looks at the record one will find that, when the people of Australia are put to the test, they are politically conscious and will look for the name of the man and/or the Party they want and will not go for the Amours, the Ashleys and the Ayletts. They will go for those they want first, and I do not believe that there is any factual information available to us which will show that, because a person is at the head of a list, he will get a favourable vote. 
Question put: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Is it not a fact that the Australian Government has advertised that its free legal aid service is available to give legal opinions on matters appertaining to the Trade Practices Act? If so, will he seek information from the Attorney-General and inform the Senate how many requests for legal advice on this Act have been made to legal aid offices in Tasmania, and how many, if any, persons have been given legal opinions requested? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. What is the nature of Australia's recognition of Cambodia? Who does Australia recognise in that country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education the following question, without notice: 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Education ask the Minister for Education to make inquiries and later inform the Senate whether, as alleged to me, there is a shortage of trained personnel and necessary teaching facilities in the Australian Capital Territory to help slow readers, particularly those in the 6 to 12 years age group? Can the Minister hold out any hope to the parents of these children? I understand that there is a cure for their handicap if specially trained teachers are made available. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General in his capacity as Minister representing the Minister for Transport with whom I have had correspondence in the recent recess. As a result of that correspondence I ask: Is it correct that it cost the Australian Government $2,500 a day per ferry to tow the ferries 'Kosciusko' and 'Lady Ferguson' from Sydney to Hobart and for the tugs to return to Sydney? What has been the total cost to the Federal Government on this project? What is the current market value of each of the 2 ferries? Did any official representative of the Australian Department of Transport inspect for and make any report to the Minister or the Department of Transport as to the seaworthiness of each ferry and its ability to withstand the added strain of being towed through head seas where west to southerly winds prevail from Sydney to Hobart, which port they finally reached in very poor condition? 
-On behalf of the Opposition I rise to support the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975. Remembering question time today before lunch and the fact that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon),  who was so constantly on the job, then followed by introducing the Social Services Bill 1975 and followed immediately after by introducing this Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1975, 1 think one can say to the Minister: 'Little man, you are having a busy day'. But the Minister is receiving the co-operation of the Opposition because we see benefits coming from this legislation. There are 2 reasons why I am not going to prolong the debate on this measure. The first is that both prior to lunch and just now the listening public, Hansard and the media, if they were interested, had the opportunity of knowing the detailed contents of this legislation, and I do not believe in mere repetition for repetition's sake. Also the massive public relations ability of the Government and the expensive advertising which it undertook have long ere this told the public of Australia what are the main benefits accruing to beneficiaries under repatriation legislation. 
The Bill came into the Senate this morning and will be passed, I believe, fairly shortly. I emphasise that the Senate sat yesterday but did not receive the Bill. The Senate had enjoyed, or endured, according to one's likes and dislikes, a fortnight's recess ordered by the Government to allow the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to go overseas. So let us not have any nonsense to the effect that we on this side of the Parliament have delayed the benefits being passed on to the veterans. There was reference in another debate to an article written during the recess by  Mr Laurie  Oakes in the Melbourne 'Sun'. I must be fair both to him and to others.  His  quite wrong, unfair, ill-informed criticism of the Senate was concerned only with an Appropriation Bill and money to be appropriated for defence service homes. He did not, in my belief, refer at all to repatriation or social security benefits. 
The second reason why I am happy to encourage the speedy passage of this legislation is that I understand from the Minister's second reading speech that if we pass it today the benefits not only will be back dated to 8 May but also will flow on to the beneficiaries as from the pay day of repatriation benefits on 5 June. So, unless we have reason to oppose or to probe, it is our moral duty to get on with the debate. 
I believe that the Bill does 2 things. First of all, it puts into effect promises or policy announced in the 1974-75 Budget. Of course, one cannot criticise a government that puts into legislative form in May promises it made in August of the previous year. Secondly, I think it is fair to say that the Bill does show the development of Labor policy in this sphere of welfare legislation. I do not know of anybody who could be critical of the progress being made in relation to repatriation benefits. This Bill would, I believe, support that view. It must be said that the increases, in dollars and cents, are much bigger than were provided 10 or 15 years ago by the LiberalCountry Party coalition. But it is not true to say that the Government is being more generous. It is fair to say that the Government is endeavouring with all its financial and monetary responsibilities to keep repatriation benefits rates and allowances abreast of inflation. I believe that is putting the position very fairly in a non-party political sense. 
A further reason why I am quite happy to help speed this legislation through the chamber is that it is traditional that important policy matters, such as repatriation and social welfare matters, are properly, fully and critically examined when the annual Budget of any government is presented in August because that Budget contains the financial policy for the ensuing year. The introduction of this Bill is a popping-up action to keep repatriation benefits abreast, if possible, of inflation. The Government must not think that we on this side of the chamber do not believe that more should flow to repatriation beneficiaries. We believe that we should be satisfied with what is being done in a half-term measure and await the Government's fiscal policy in this sphere in the Budget which I believe will be presented in August. 
I take the sincere view, particularly when we are dealing with mid-year legislation that is acceptable or good- I put this Bill in that category- that we are not obstructionists. This morning we passed in, I think, about 20 minutes the Social Services Bill which will bring great benefit to many thousands of people throughout Australia. Any Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill which increases benefits, as this Bill certainly does, and which widens the scope of eligibility and thereby increases the number of beneficiaries, as this Bill does, deserves consideration free of cheap party political gibes and of emotionalism. Honourable senators on both sides of the chamber have to bear in mind that the times through which we are passing should lead us to give very careful consideration to the financial policy which the Government puts forward and which the Senate, which is its master, agrees to pass. I support the legislation. 

 Senator Sir MAGNUS CORMACK (Victoria) (2.27)- I rise to my feet because this is the only opportunity that presents itself to me to correct a matter which was mentioned twice this morning. I refer to an article in the Melbourne Sun' which was written by one Oakes, who I understand is the Canberra Press representative for the Melbourne 'Sun'. It relates to the events of the Wednesday prior to the Senate adjourning, before the journey abroad of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I mention this to you,  Sir, as  the  President  of the Senate, in rather tenuous outline because this article was a gross travesty of the truth of the events that happened on that Wednesday. 
-As an Opposition member of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of Parliament, I support the motion. I point out that when the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  introduced the original motion to set up the Committee it contained the words 'within 90 days' which, if my memory serves me correctly, means 29 May. Any senator who has been on a joint select committee of the Parliament inquiring into such an important aspect of parliamentary life as this would know that the Committee could not possibly do all its work thoroughly and prepare a report and have it printed within 90 days. We tried hard. Our  Chairman, Mr Riordan  from the other place, worked us very hard and members and senators co-operated. One must realise that to advertise for witnesses, to decide what witnesses would make submissions, to give them time to prepare their submissions, to get in all the questionnaires that we sent out, to have them, our research documents and our evidence analysed and to prepare a draft report, could not possibly be done in 90 days. 
So I believe that we have made this request quite fairly, knowing that there is to be a winter recess and that we can make some headway during that recess before Parliament meets and give the Government Printer time to have a report ready for presentation on or before 30 September. Somehow or other in the original motion peculiar language was used to the effect that the Committee report within 90 days and that any member of the Committee have power to add a protest or dissent to any report. The motion before the Senate at the moment repeats that language in giving an extension of time. There is still the ability for any senator or member to dissent from the report. I am certain that the Senate and the Government would want a good and thoroughly thought out and analysed report. Therefore, I hope that the Senate will agree to the motion. 

 - Senator Durack, I understand that you are seeking leave to withdraw your amendment to clause 7. Is that so? 

 - Senator Durack, are you taking both your amendments to clause 4 1 together? 
In sub-clause (2), leave out paragraph (a). 
Leave out sub-clause (4). 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that the former Sydney ferry 'Lady Ferguson', one of 2 ferries for which the Australian Government is to pay all expenses of towing from Sydney to Hobart, the purchase price and all other incidental expenditure, has now been declared unfit to carry passengers across the River Derwent, will the Minister table the report of the officers of the Department of Transport who inspected the vessels in Sydney to ascertain that they were capable of making the voyage to Hobart? This report was referred to by the Minister when he answered my question on the matter last Wednesday, 1 4 May. 
Is leave granted? There being no dissent, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
The Senate has asked for more information concerning the proposed appropriations in Supply Bills (Nos. 1 and 2) 1975-76 for Advances to the Treasurer. 
I appreciate the concern of honourable senators in seeking explanations in respect of these proposed appropriations. But I reject the suggestion that the Government would use the funds capriciously or spend them on purposes for which it would not be prepared to seek specific parliamentary approval in advance of undertaking the expenditure, if time permitted of this. 
In the early days of Federation, Parliament recognised the need for a government to be able to cope with emergent funding needs not covered by existing appropriations by inserting in the Audit Act a clause providing for expenditure in excess of specific appropriations or not specifically provided for to be met from an appropriation under the head 'Advance to the Treasurer'. In practice, there have of course been 2 such appropriations in the annual Appropriation and Supply Acts- one in the No. 1 Acts and one in the No. 2 Acts. They are appropriations which all governments, down through the years, have found to be essential to the proper conduct of government business. 
Honourable senators have said that the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations are for emergency funds. That is a reasonable short description. However, it is not correct to designate them as 'petty cash'. To do so is to misinterpret their nature and purposes. 
The kinds of uses that may be made of the Advances to the Treasurer appropriations are specified in the legislation in which these appropriations are included. The definitions of them in the present Supply Bills are exactly the same as in comparable legislation in previous years. 
Treasury Directions issued to departments under the Audit Act also refer to the circumstances under which moneys may be issued from the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations. The relevant Directions state, consistently with the definitions employed in appropriation legislation, that the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations enable the Treasurer to make moneys available: Pending the passing of an Appropriation Act, to meet expenditure which was not covered by an appropriation, particulars of which will afterwards be submitted to Parliament; pending the issue of a Governor-General's Warrant for moneys already appropriated by the Parliament; and to make an advance which will be recovered within the financial year. 
The Directions state in respect of the first three of the circumstances above, that approval 'will be given only in urgent or special circumstances '. 
Many expenditure requirements are not readily predictable. There is frequently considerable uncertainty both as to just when they will emerge and what amount of funds will be needed to meet them. Some arise quite unexpectedly, without any forewarning at all. 
Appropriations, other than Advances to the Treasurer, in the annual Appropriation Acts and Supply Acts are not designed to provide for requirements which might arise during the periods for which they are available. They are prepared on a more restricted basis than that. 
It has been, and still is, the practice of Treasury in seeking estimates of expenditure from departments for the purpose of preparation of Appropriation Bills to ask the departments to observe certain general principles in preparing their estimates. One of these is that estimates for supplies and services should be calculated at current or known prices. Other general principles, developed in conjunction with the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, are aimed at ensuring that, inter alia, the estimates should not make provision for proposals which are of such an uncertain nature that it is not possible to form any real estimate of what payments, if any, will be made. 
The Supply Bills being by nature temporary funding media, the estimates on which they are based are prepared on a more arbitrary basis. Estimates are not made in the same detail as for annual Appropriation Bills. Thus, in the case of administrative expenses, the advice to departments in respect of the preparation of estimates for the current Supply Bills stated that the estimates of administrative expenses should, in general, be on the basis of providing for ongoing services at the levels authorised by the 1974-75 Budget and that current cost levels should be used in calculating the requirements. 
With appropriations being based on estimates of expenditure prepared on such basis, inevitably, even in the most stable of circumstances, supplementations of them will be required because of price and cost changes and other developments. In the case of appropriations for direct wage and salary payments, the need for such supplementation has been partly met in recent times by a special provision in the appropriation legislation. But that still leaves the need for supplementation in respect of a wide range of categories of expenditure because of price and cost increases. Price and cost changes are but one of many factors that can give rise to requirements for additional funds. 
Additional funds requirements can arise from changes in the timing of availability of supplies or services from industry, including overseas supplies. Patterns of expenditure under approved programs may change because of changes in the numbers benefiting from them. 
In the normal course of government business there is frequently the need to obtain supplies and services, essential to the Government's operations, without there being prior provision for these in appropriations. 
Not infrequently, funds are required for new programs approved by the Parliament after the Appropriation or Supply Bills have been prepared. 
Quite unexpected and unavoidable new requirements, sometimes very large ones, can be just around the corner at any time. The succession of recent natural disasters has amply demonstrated this. These are some of the contingencies not provided for in the specific appropriations in Supply Acts which the Advances to the Treasurer appropriations may have to finance pending further appropriations which cover them. 
Situations can also arise where the Parliament having appropriated moneys for specific purposes in legislation, there may be good reasons for making payments in advance of the formal assent to the Bill or the necessary Warrant from the Governor-General being obtained. Under these circumstances the Treasurer may provide funds temporarily from the Advance to the Treasurer appropriation, which is recouped when Governor-General's Warrant under the relevant legislation has been obtained. As an example of an issue of funds pending the issue of a Governor-General's Warrant, I mention that during the current year a temporary issue of $ 15.8m was made to enable prompt payment to  be made under the Glebe Lands (Appropriation) Act 1974. 
A further use of the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations is the making of advances which will be recovered during the financial year. We have issued this financial year amounts totalling $16m, including provision for the reimbursement of imprest accounts at Australian posts overseas pending the examination of accounts and the charging of them to departmental appropriations and for temporary increases of working capital advances to trust accounts. 
While we do not acknowledge any automatic relationship between the level of government expenditure and the appropriate size of Treasurer's Advance provisions, it is reasonable to expect that larger Advances will be required as the level of expenditure rises. 
The level of expenditure is of course now substantially higher than it was last year, when the Parliament agreed to Supply Bills, each of which included an Advance to the Treasurer of $60m. 
The total of Supply Bill (No. 2) 1975-76 of $ 1,082m with an Advance to the Treasurer appropriation of $120m compares with a total of $5 13m in Supply Act (No. 2) 1974-75 with an Advance of $60m. The increase proposed in the Advance to the Treasurer appropriation is thus a little less than a pro rata increase. The total of Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 of $2,692m (with a $120m Advance) compares with a total of $ 1,804m in Supply Act (No. 1) 1974-75 (with a $60m Advance). In this case, the increase proposed in the Advance to the Treasurer is in fact considerably more than a pro rata one. 
But the Government has not included Advances to the Treasurer of $ 120m in each of the Supply Bills just because government expenditure is presently at a higher level than last year. There are a number of other considerations which contributed importantly to its judgment that such amounts should be provided. 
I referred earlier to the bases on which Supply estimates are prepared. In general, they are related to approved policies, current activity levels and current prices at the time they are prepared. 
Even in the most stable of circumstances, there will be price changes and other developments requiring recourse to the Treasurer's Advances during the Supply period. 
At present, prices and costs are increasing rapidly. While we are anxious that these trends be moderated and greater stability of prices and costs achieved, the effects which the increases which are occurring could have on expenditure requirements during the coming Supply period had to be recognised. 
Apart from domestic price and cost trends, trends abroad are also very relevant, particularly as regards funds requirements for payments under defence and other procurement programs. 
There are, in present circumstances, also many uncertainties as regards delivery dates of supplies and rates of performances under works and other contracts. 
In making its judgment as to what would be a prudent level for the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations the Government also had to take into account the fact that there are some important programs which have not been in operation for very long. With such programs, there is not the same basis of experience for estimating prospective funds requirements as there is with well established programs and some allowance needs to be made for the uncertainties necessarily involved. This is so in respect of some of the programs involving the States and for which the funds requirements during the forthcoming Supply period will depend on agreements with them or otherwise on their performance. The Hospitals Development Program is an example. 
One big program which the Government will be introducing this year and which has the approval of the Parliament is the Health Insurance Program- Medibank. An appropriation of $335m is proposed in division 598, Supply Bill (No. 1). While efforts have been made to assess the likely requirements during the Supply period as accurately as possible, this is the first time an estimate has been made for these proposed expenditures and, as well, there is some uncertainty at present not only about the extent of State participation in the Medibank hospital cost sharing arrangements but also about the timing of State participation. Hence it is possible that the provision sought for hospital payments might be insufficient. 
There is also a degree of uncertainty about the provision sought for medical benefits. For example, it was assumed that there would not be an increase in the level of benefit payments as from 1 July 1975 but the matter of whether there should be an increase from that date and if so, how much, has been referred to an independent inquiry. 
There are a number of other programs in respect of which it is difficult to estimate expenditure during the Supply period because the incidence of applications for assistance under these programs is not predictable with any degree of accuracy- for example, Structural Adjustment Assistance, and the Regional Employment Development Scheme. 
I might add that, with some of the kinds of programs to which I have been referring, there could be additional requirements during the Supply period which, in effect, reflect a spill-over into the new financial year of expenditure for which provision is made in the 1974-75 appropriations. 
Subject to parliamentary approval of the proposed take-over of part of the South Australian railways and the Tasmanian railways, funds will be required during the forthcoming Supply period for the consequent financing requirements of the Australian National Railways Commission in particular. 
It is also to be noted that some new statutory authorities have recently been created or are proposed in Bills before the Parliament. In so far as these are operating early-in the new financial year, some of the funds they require may have to be provided from the Treasurer's Advance. The Australian Film Commission is an example. 
We do, of course, have to recognise always the possibility of natural disasters. 
Supply Bill (No. 2) includes an amount of $ 10m for payments to or for the States- Department of the Treasury (division 964). This is made up of $5m in respect of the Tasman Bridge disaster and $5m in respect of natural disaster relief. It cannot be predicted whether these amounts will prove to be sufficient. In particular, of course, a major new disaster in one of the States could result in calls beyond the amount provided for. Restoration and relief operations in Darwin and assistance measures for rural areas of the Northern Territory might require funds in excess of those envisaged at the time of preparation of the Supply Bills. 
Nor could we overlook the fact that there are to be major discussions on State finances and related matters at the Premiers' Conference in June. Whether there will arise out of that Conference a need to provide funds to the States in the early part of 1 975-76 which cannot be met under existing legislation cannot, of course, be predicted at this stage. 
As a few examples of the many contingencies to which the Government has had to have regard in making its judgment as to the size of the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations it should seek, I mention: Overseas aid- shortfalls in achievement in 1974-75 under some aid programs may mean an overflow into 1975-76. Also, more funds for emergency relief and development might be required because of unpredictable events; Service Housing- a possible carry over into 1975-76 of building projects would mean that Supply funds would be inadequate; Defence Financial Assistance Papua New Guinea- because of unknown factors at the time of preparation of Supply Bill (No. 1) 1975-76, provision in the latter may be insufficient. 
I have noted that in the Senate debate on 14 May references were made to the expenditure recorded in the Advance to the Treasurer Statement presented to the Parliament after the close of the financial year. That statement relates to the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations in the main Appropriation Acts passed in the Budget Session. 
In the Supply period, most of the issues made from the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations are in anticipation of the passing of the Budget Appropriation Bills. Thus when the latter are passed, most of the issues from Supply Act Treasurer's Advances are subsumed by specific purpose appropriations in the Appropriation Bills, only a few of them are carried over to the Advance appropriations in the Budget Bills and that is because they are new items- for example, a disaster payment or funds to support legislation passed meanwhile by Parliament- that have arisen since the Budget Appropriation Bills were prepared. 
In relation to the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations in the main Appropriation Acts, it is the practice under this Government, as it was under previous governments, to include in the Additional Appropriation Bills charges made to the Advances up to the time of preparation of the Additional Appropriation Bills. 
The amount recorded in the Advance to the Treasurer Statement prepared at the close of the financial year is therefore not a measure of the extent of the usage of either the Supply period Advances or the Advances in the main Appropriation Acts. 
This leads me on to another matter which was discussed in the Senate debate on 14 May- that is accountability. It is axiomatic and Parliament did not intend otherwise, that issues made by the Treasury from the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations should not be authorised beforehand by the Parliament. The Parliament therefore delegated to the Treasurer the obligation carefully to ration out the funds voted to him in the Advance appropriations. But he has to be mindful, as Treasurers before him have been mindful, of reporting to Parliament the issues he has made and the purposes therefor. We have done this, in the tradition of the past, by including the issues up to the date of preparation of the Additional Appropriation Bills in those Appropriation Bills which are then subject to Parliamentary scrutiny. This scrutiny by the Parliament is carried out within the same financial year as the funds were issued. After the Additional Appropriation Bills are prepared, issues made up to 30 June are reported in the Advance to the Treasurer Statement to which I "have already referred. 
The Parliament, through the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, also exercises a check on residual issues from the Advances. This is a scrutiny in which, as the Committee points out in its reports, it seeks to ascertain whether or not expenditure from the Advances has been confirmed to urgent and unforeseeable requirements for which provision could not have been made in the original and additional estimates. 
There is, of course, no exemption from audit of expenditure from the Advance to the Treasurer. It is subject to the same degree of scrutiny by the Auditor-General as any other expenditure. 
A judgment as to what the level of the Advance to the Treasurer appropriations should be is essentially a judgment about uncertainties. 
The amounts sought in Supply Bills (Nos 1 and 2) as Advance to the Treasurer appropriations represent the Government's best judgment, in the light of all the relevant circumstances and possibilities, of what would be proper and prudent provisions at this time. As I have pointed out, there are a variety of special factors in the present situation. 
The inclusion of provisions of $ 120m in each Bill does not mean that the Government will be seeking to expend these amounts. Our aim will be to keep the use of the Advances to a minimum. But it would, in the Government's view, be less than prudent not to have provisions of this size in the present circumstances. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the light of the Prime Minister's reluctance to discuss the Baltic States issue when he was in the Soviet Union in 1974, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs, through diplomatic channels, undertake to make representations to Soviet authorities for the release of the 5 Lithuanian prisoners of conscience- S.  Zukauskas,  A.  Sakalauskas.  V.  Povilonis,  I.  Rudaitis  and A.  Mackevicius?  Will the Minister also press for greater human rights in the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and keep the Australian public informed about progress of any negotiations? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate whether it is correct that the Department of Social Security has purchased a computer for the administration of the Medibank scheme? If so, when was the computer purchased and for what price was it purchased? Were tenders called? If so, how many tenders were received? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy inform the Senate whether Australia has agreed to sell uranium to any foreign country? If so, with what countries and for what quantities have the contracts been made? Has the Australian Labor Party's Caucus agreed to permit the Government to honour any Cabinet decision to export Australian uranium? 
I speak as a layman coming into the field of lawyers. We have argued in this Parliament the onus of proof, especially in relation to repatriation cases, over the years. We have the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland),  an eminent lawyer, agreeing with 

 Senator Greenwood, the former AttorneyGeneral, that the onus of proof, normally to the liking of lawyers, is different in this clause from what it normally is. The Minister has taken the example of a barman to explain the matter to the Parliament and to the nation. It appeared from his whole emphasis that this matter would refer only to a barman serving lemonade or liquor in a hotel. I presume from his remarks that he is referring to a coloured barman serving a white drinker or a white barman serving a coloured drinker and the barman using insulting words and refusing to serve a drink. He said that the barman would be free from the charge of discrimination if the owner was proved to have told the barman that he must not serve drinks to this type or colour of person. 
All I ask is whether the hotelier as he - 
If the Minister had not interrupted me I could have finished a little earlier. All I want to know as a layman, having listened to 3 eminent legal senators, is this: Does the owner of the hotel, the restaurant or any place that serves or treats other people have to have in writing or recorded on a tape instructions to his staff that they must not take this attitude to people of another race, colour, clime or religion, if he is to have the onus of proof as his safeguard? Is it to be decided on hearsay evidence? Who will the court believe- the owner, the hotelier, the barman, the head waiter or the lady receptionist? I do not think that the honourable senators, as lawyers, are thinking and picturing what happens in real life. I believe that if this clause as it is now is passed an unfair disadvantage will be put on the owner, the proprietor, the licensee or anyone serving the public through the agencies of employees. 
The question is: That amendment No. 3 be agreed to. Those of that opinion say aye; those against say no. I think the ayes have it. 
Order! 
Are you moving your amendment? 
Leave out the words preceding paragraph (a), substitute A person shall not, with intent to provoke a breach of the peace-'. 

 - Mr Minister, you have just foreshadowed a further amendment. Is the government amendment No. 6 to be proceeded with when it is called? 
Amendment agreed to. 
Message No. 275 from the House of Representatives and the schedule of the amendments made by the House of Representatives have been circulated to all honourable senators. 
Motion (by  Senator James  McClelland) proposed: 
That the amendments made by the House of Representatives be agreed to. 
Clause 121, as printed, had been agreed to by both Houses of Parliament and the House of Representatives has sent here its amendment No. 1 1, as has been pointed out in the debate on this matter, to delete certain words. My understanding and the advice given to me is that the result of  Senator Wright's  proposed amendment would be to delete the whole of clause 121, which was passed by the Senate, was sent to the House of Representatives and was passed by that House with a minor amendment. Therefore, I feel that on those grounds I cannot accept  Senator Wright's  proposed amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolutions reported; report adopted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education. Will the Minister inform the Senate of the Government's plans with regard to the provision of residential halls in Tasmanian technical colleges? Will he obtain an assurance from his colleague that the promise made in March of this year in Burnie that a residential hall would be constructed in that town within 2 years will be honoured? If it is to be honoured when will the construction commence? Will that hall be a part of the existing Burnie Technical College? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Is it a fact that the Department of Housing and Construction let a contract to a Victorian based firm for the installation of new electric generating equipment at the Hobart Airport on a tender which was $9,000 greater than that of a Hobart based contractor? Is the Minister able to inform the Senate of the reason for this discrimination against Tasmanian industry being permitted? 
I suggest it would be appropriate for the Committee not to take the Bill as a whole but to take the clauses separately. Is there any objection? 
Clause 1 agreed to. 
Clause 2 agreed to. 
Clause 3 
Section 5 of the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act 1947-1973 is amended- 
by omitting from paragraph (a) the words 'One dollar fifty cents' and substituting the figures '$2.50'; 
by omitting from paragraph (b) the words 'One dollar seventy-five cents' and substituting the figures $3.50'; and 
by omitting from paragraph (c) the words 'One dollar twenty cents ' and substituting the figures '$2.50 '. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, follows on a question asked by  Senator Grimes.  I ask: Is the Minister not aware that because of the decision to hold the Bass byelection on 28 June- the nominations for which will close tomorrow- Lieutenant-Colonel Newman was informed that his 3 June application to resign from the Army possibly would not be able to be processed in time to enable him legally to nominate to contest the seat of Bass and that therefore he should seek a transfer to the Reserve of Officers, which request, in accordance with law and procedures, would make Lieutenant-Colonel Newman's nomination the winning one? 
I speak in 2 capacities, firstly, representing the Opposition viewpoint and also, as  Senator Devitt  has been kind enough to mention, as Acting  Chairman  of the Committee. I have been deeply involved with the officials of the Academy of Science and  Senator Steele  Hall in trying to get the best of all worlds for everybody, particularly the people of the Australian Capital Territory who will be travelling between the suburbs of Belconnen and Tuggeranong. The Opposition supports  Senator Hall's  amended motion. As Acting  Chairman  of the Committee I feel that in the terms of the motion the Committee's wishes have been fulfilled. Also it will give the people from the Academy of Science an opportunity to have further discussions with both the National Capital Development Commission and with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. 
Briefly I want to put into the record, so that people will not feel that this is something that has been discussed and completed over a short period, that the Molonglo Parkway was first envisaged as a 6-lane roadway but after environmentalists and others complained, meetings were held and the NCDC proposed the Molonglo Arterial, a 4-lane roadway with an off-take to bring traffic on to the planned Western Distributor. If the off-take proposal is not accepted by the passing of this motion work cannot commence. Every delay these days means not only added cost but also traffic problems. These problems are developing in the area which this arterial road will serve. I believe that work can start in the very near future. The whole matter has been an exercise in democracy. A variation motion was put down and in each House the 6 days had almost elapsed in which action could be taken to disapprove of the proposal. That action was taken by  Senator Steele  Hall. There have been a lot of conferences, ideas and thoughts put into the final solution. I earnestly ask the Senate to carry this motion because it means a lot to the Australian Capital Territory. It gives those who still have some worries time for further negotiations. 
No, all I can say is that the National Capital Development Commission is completely happy with the amended motion moved by  Senator Steele  Hall. It is quite prepared to have further discussions in relation to the final route of the western distributor and also about the deploying of traffic once the arterial road is carrying traffic and before the western distributor is constructed. For anyone who has fears about the western distributor I add that when the National Capital Development Commission comes forward with plans for that road those plans must come before the Australian Capital Territory Committee. Our report and recommendations must come before the Senate. The same sort of debate could be taking place in this chamber in 6 months time. I support the motion without any reservation. 
-For the first time in 22 years in Parliament I rise to speak to a motion such as that now before the Senate. I rise for 2 reasons. Firstly, I was privileged to be made  deputy  to  Senator Bert  Milliner when he became  chairman  of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory. Secondly, I admired his amazing qualities of friendship. Whenever I think of Bert Milliner in the years to come or hear his name mentioned, his words of greeting will ring in my ear: 'Hello, friend. Good morning, friend'. That was the greeting one got on meeting him in the corridors. I believe that was his attitude to life. I remember when one senator retired and speeches were being made about his qualities, in reply he said that he was glad that he was retiring from the Senate so he could hear the nice things people on both sides of the chamber would say about him. I would say this of Bert Milliner If following his illness, which finally caused his death, he had any thought of passing on without returning to the Senate he would have said to himself: 'I don't think I have left an enemy. I think they will say nice things about me because I was their friend'. I believe that the words 'friend ', 'friendship' and  courtesy ' sum up the character of the man. 
As the  chairman  of a committee he soon gained a consensus around the table, and he was quick of decision and firm in having that decision put into operation. He was not a time waster. I should think also that he would have been the answer to a Whip's prayer because time and again during the years in which he was a member of this chamber I noticed that he was called into the debate to liven it up, as well he could, and to give his Party a boost, which he sincerely wanted to do. That is a great attribute. It is a great help to any party to have members of that ability and sincerity. 
I have not had the pleasure of knowing his family, but tributes have been paid to his family. I say, particularly on behalf of the Joint Committee on the Australian Capital Territory and of myself, that we have lost a very good friend. Our sympathy goes to his family. 
Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate make urgent inquiries in the right quarters and as soon as possible inform the Senate of the approximate number of Australian Government employees who have been waiting for overtime payments for a period longer than 2 months? Will he also obtain the name of the department and the number of its employees throughout Australia whose overtime wages have not been paid, as of this day, for the period ended 3 1 March 1975? Does this indicate that the Government is insolvent? 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs undertake on his return from his forthcoming overseas trip to give to the Senate a full policy statement outlining the results flowing from policy initiatives announced in his statement of policy in May 1 973? 
I address my question to the Special Minister of State who I understand is the Minister administering the financial aspects in regard to International Women's Year. I noticed this in the Estimates. Is the Minister able to provide the Senate with a detailed account of the items on which moneys have been expended or authorised to be expended as part of the Government's allocation of $2m for International Women's Year? Has a request been made for a grant of a further $2m? Has the request been complied with? 

 - Senator McAuliffe referred to Disraeli and brought to mind a story that I believe true about Disraeli and which is very applicable to the honourable senator's speech: A young member of the House of Commons, recently elected, went to Disraeli and said:  'Sir, should  I make my maiden speech at the first opportunity?' Disraeli said: 'Young man, it is better that they ask "Why did he not speak?" instead of asking "Why did he speak?".' I therefore propose to cut out the balderdash, ignore what has been said since 8 o'clock and talk about the Budget. 
The Budget is the fiscal policy of the government in power which should portray its policy in that line to the people of Australia and businesses in Australia for the following 12 months. As  Senator Cotton  rightly reminded us this afternoon, a Budget introduced in midAugust does not really start to show effects until early April-May of the following year. Therefore Australians can expect conditions now prevailing to continue the trend in which they have been going in recent months. For the public the reception by the media either raises their hopes or deepens their despair. Unfortunately these media commentators from the Press gallery are instant opinion-makers. Frankly, without being at all provocative or insulting, I do not believe that they know what the people are thinking and what effect the Budget will have in the market place. That is where it is important so far as the prosperity or otherwise of the nation is concerned. Labor's 1974-75 Budget was followed by reckless spending and wrong policy decisions. The great harm to Australia that has been the basis of our great problems was Labor's policy in respect of tariffs and its high interest rate policy when all along it said it was the low interest rate Party. 
That is right. Labor in office, in my mind, has continued to show a complete lack of teamwork. The Government has had 27 Ministers running around spending money in their own spheres each trying to make himself the Cassius Clay in his particular sphere of activities. They have lacked leadership. I shall come to that aspect afterwards. There cannot be a team unless there is leadership. The Government has lacked economic common sense. This has been proved time and again in the last 3 years. 
Ruins around the world and being rude to people and organisations in public have occupied the eyes and the mind of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  I was at the Opera House in Sydney recently when there was, by invitation of the Returned Services League, a gathering of world veterans from all over the world. They included old enemies, now friends, trying to see how they, as veterans of war, could do something about helping to achieve peace in our time. The Press reports were indicative of one of the rudest speeches that I was ashamed to hear. I heard a hoot in a partially Australian audience of an international flavour. The Sydney  Daily Mirror  said: 
The Badge of Rudeness 
For the Prime Minister to abuse RSL hospitality yesterday with a lecture on old slogans, intolerance and fanaticism was both rude and unfair. 
Yes. He has a been a member for 30 years. 
He is a veteran in being rude also. The  Australian,  the donor of $74,000 to Labor Party funds and concerned with a $69,000 kick-back for electioneering advertising said in a sub-leader. 
An unstable world 
MR WHITLAM yesterday chose a singularly inappropriate forum for firing off another round in his verbal battle with the cold warriors of the Returned Services League. The very gathering he was addressing- an RSL-sponsored world assembly of war veterans, aimed at promoting peace and international goodwill- belied the main thrust of his criticisms. 
Despite the occasion of his speech,  Mr Whitlam  once against displayed the lack of timing and sense of good taste which we have unhappily become accustomed to. 
The  Daily Telegraph,  in a full page article, said: 
RSL blast will cost one million votes 
Whitlam does it again 
So I say the eyes and the mind of the Prime Minister have been focused on looking at ruins and travelling with his jet set and being rude to people and organisations. He has also been handicapped as a leader because various personal staff appointments have formed a protective curtain around him, keeping him safely away, when he is in Australia, from trained senior, loyal and able public servants- the experts. Then there came the awakening. Whitlam awakes. Someone should write a book about it. He either read  Woman's Day  or something else and he realised that Australia's growing problems were not a mishmash of hooha. 
I am saying it. He realised that there were over 200 000 unemployed, 60 000 employed under the Regional Employment Development Scheme and that there were the highest interest rates ever operating in Australia. I believe that perhaps he thought that some media writers and Opposition spokesmen who had drawn this to his attention were correct. Perhaps he thought those criticised nervous Nellies in Caucus who are reported to have told him that thing were going wrong might have something on their side and that we were not living, as we were up to 2 December 1972, in Australia Unlimited with verylittle unemployment and 4 per cent inflation. So Treasury was blamed publicly, and all honourable senators will recall the attack on Treasury officials. Then  Mr Crean-  quiet, calm, honest, sincere- was axed. The new Treasurer,  Dr Jim  Cairnsfamous only as a Treasurer- came in. It will be for all sorts of things that Jim Cairns will be written about in the history of Australian politics. But the main reason he will be written about as far as my research takes me, will be because he was the only Treasurer of a parliament in the Westminster system who was not able to bring down a budget. He got the axe. Australia's ruins were being studied; the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  decided to stop over in this country and have a look at things. He then called upon  Mr Hayden,  whose great fame, regardless of this Budget, will be that he was the father of the Medibank system, which I prophesy here and now in great sincerity will bankrupt this country in 10 years. 
The Government likes to pull the wool over its own eyes; I like to speak the truth. So Australia has become the unlucky country. It is no longer Australia Unlimited. I have to admit that the Budget presented on 19 August has some aspects of economic good sense- if Caucus, the unions, private enterprise and world conditions start running for  Mr Hayden  in the field of economics. But our internal problems cannot be glossed over.  Mr Hawke-  whether speaking for the Reserve Bank or the Australian Council of Trade Unions or Bourke's or the Australian Labor Party, I never know which, or just having a crack at the person he wants to succeed- has prophesied that up to 500 000 people will be unemployed early next year because of worsened conditions and because of school leavers. The Regional Employment Development scheme is closing down, we are told, and I believe that there will be great worries for local government if the scheme ceases. It is extraordinary that the Government has to spend $1 10m, as it did last year, employing people who are out of work because of its policies. Some good things have come from this scheme, this unfortunate necessity, but when it finishes where is local government going to find the money to keep up the parks and gardens and foreshores that have been created by the employment of people under the RED scheme. I believe that if we had a really honest government, when it issued unemployment figures each month it would state the precise number of unemployed and add: 'But there are 60 000 to 70 000 people who are precariously, temporarily employed on a very costly venture for the Australian taxpayer. ' 
Another problem that is glossed over by the Treasurer and by Government spokesmen relates to small businesses. I refer to an article by Graham Williams entitled 'Small business, big bust', which appeared recently in the  Australian.  In the Sydney  Sun  on 26 August an article appeared entitled '878 Firms Go Broke', and it was stated that 1975 was a record year for such a catastrophe. Graham Williams worked out that if a small business goes broke, because it closes down and causes unemployment ultimately it will cost the Australian taxpayers $55,000 a year. So it is not only the fellow who loses the job who is being hit; it is also the fellow who loses his life savings in that private enterprise, savings that we have encouraged him to invest. 
The early days after the presentation of the Budget do not reveal what is behind the cloudy atmosphere that the Budget Speech puts over the facts of financial life in Australia today. A lot of the fine print in the supporting documents- and they are worth $18 if one has to buy them- must be examined. In relation to pay as you earn tax, young married couples who are both working and who earn $7,000 a year will each pay $256 extra per year in taxation. Do single people on $5,000 a year-which is about $3,000 below the average national wage, so they cannot be overpaidrealise that they will be paying an extra $120 a year in income tax under this Budget? No wonder  Dr Cairns  is asking publicly for a miniBudget. I do not know what he says in Caucus; we have not yet had a leak from this week's Caucus meeting. Added to the increased taxation, there are the savage imposts to which  Senator McAuliffe  referred on potable- may I say, not pottable- spirits, beer, cigarettes, postal charges and petrol. This Government will be known as the Government that not only killed Father Christmas and Christmas cards but practically wiped out private correspondence between friends and relatives. It is going to be cheaper to ring up than to write a letter. The postal charges are the most inane, badly thought out, savage taxes that I have seen imposed by any government in 23 years. I know what Government senators are going to say. They are going to say - 
May I speak to the point of order? I was going to add that I know the Government will run for cover and say that that is not us, it is the Australian Postal Commission. I cannot think of any greater political cowardice than that. The Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop),  the man without a job, agreed to the increases. He admits that he agreed to them, but the unions are fighting them and the Government senators have not got the moral fibre to join with the unions and fight. So do not stand up and take points of order against me when you are cowards. Surely the young married people are the ones who need encouragement, yet the Government has taxed them more heavily than they were taxed before. We in this country over the years have fought an economy which requires two pay packets in a family, and because people are willing to go out and work to try to create a financial base for the upbringing of their families the Government is hitting them with a heavy tax. The increased petrol tax, when the Government has the nerve to announce the precise amount, will increase the cost of all goods and services in this country. It will dampen the tourist trade, as will the Government's policy on civil aviation. The Government is trying to make the airlines and their passengers pay for the upkeep of all airports. I ask the Government and the Treasurer this question: Does the Hume Highway make a profit? Does Northbourne Avenue? Does the Sydney Harbour Bridge? The Government wants the airlines and the shipping services which use Bass Strait to make a profit, and it could not care less what it loses on other lines of communication such as the Australian National Railways and other instrumentalities which it runs. 
The finance editor of the Melbourne  Herald,  Mr Barrie  Dunstan, says that a close look at the fine print of the taxation schedules in the Budget shows that the 'tax cut(?) ' is really an increase of 41 per cent. I ask quite seriously: Is the Australian Government, the Treasury, on the brink of being unable to meet its commitments? I ask this question because some months ago an instruction signed by the Commissioner of Taxation went out, instructing all taxation officers not to allow time for payment of taxation assessments which are due, as has been done for many people over the years. Those asking for time to pay would have to be told: 'You must pay up or we will take you over. You must obtain bridging finance'. They were not his exact words. On page 29 of the Melbourne  Sun  of Friday, 22 August, there was an article which stated: 
Get in those returns: Tax Chief. 
Lodge a return within 9 days or face tough penalities- that is a Tax Department message. 
I believe that this statement shows that the Government is actually short of ready cash. I have on the notice paper a question based on information given to me that some public servants have not been paid overtime for the period ended 31 March. I will be asking, probably tomorrow if I get the call, a question about travelling allowances which have not been paid to public servants and to people who work for government instrumentalities. I believe that future shocks will come to this country unless the tax gatherer is successful. 
A Supply Bill- a phoney Bill, it seems to met-1 will be debated with interest. The Senate Estimates committees will be sitting soon. I will be very interested to see the type of information which we will draw. I have had research done. It is under 3 headings- Oddities, Perks and Commissions. For instance, the Department of the Media in the financial year 1973-74 spent $600 on garden maintenance, which is just a small thing, and $12,000 on assistance to overseas film making. Is it taking over Hollywood? It spent $50,000 on envelopes. The Department of Foreign Affairs spent $129,400 sending exSenator Murphy and others on a stupid exercise about nuclear tests by the French. The Department of Defence, with our defences run right down, spent $2.5m on advertising for recruits. Free legal aid, in a country with a population of approximately 13 million, last financial year cost $10,329,000. Publicising the Department ofthe Media cost $130,000. The Government Printing Office, which comes within the Department of the Media, spent $85 1 ,000 on new equipment. Salaries for the Government Publishing Service, which comes within the Department of the Media also, were $ 1 ,500,000. 1 could go on. 
I turn now to the Department of Labor and Immigration. I see that the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  is present now. He is quite welcome. He was not the Minister then, but in 1973-74 the Department spent $2,965,000 on advertising and publicity. 
I will listen to the Minister's speech later. The Department of Housing and Construction spent $5,910 on furniture for  Mr Grassby  's office. The  Sunday Observer,  a newspaper which I do not often read- there must have been a free one on the aircraft- of 10 August said: 
Dynamic Al Grassby knows everything about the new job he took over this week- except his salary! . . . This week he was upgraded to become Australia's first Commissioner for Community Relations. 
In his $5,900 furnished office he hopes to draw $700 a week. That is the type of money that is being spent. That is the type of thing that is brought to light by Senate Estimates committees. This is the fun we will have in the weeks that lie ahead. 
I ask this question: How will the Budget affect Tasmania? Shipping freights are a serious problem. Already the Estimates show that more than $300,000 has been spent on an inquiry into shipping costs to and from Tasmania. Not one printed word has been made public, despite an expenditure of $300,000. Air fares will rise again. There is no doubt about that. I point out that already Tasmanian industries are in very serious difficulty. The tariff policy of the Government, high costs of freight and all this pace-setting by the Commonwealth Government have meant that the industries are in a serious state. Industrial unrest has been one of the causes. I refer to the unfortunate situation in relation to the Tasman Bridge. The Amalgamated Metal Workers Union is on strike; so real work on repairing the bridge cannot be carried out. I understand that it involves an inter-union wrangle. All these things are killing the island State. 
What have we had from the Federal Government? When it wanted to win Denison it promised to establish the headquarters of the Antarctic Research division on the Derwent. Nothing has been heard or done since it won Denison. When it pushed  Mr Barnard  out and said: 'Stockholm or nothing'- do not think  Mr Barnard  resigned of his own free will; it was Stockholm or nothing- it promised a maritime college to try to retain Bass. All I can say to the Government is that if it put the Taj Mahal in Braddon and the Snowy Mountains scheme in Wilmot it would not win either of those 2 seats, because the people of Tasmania will not be hoodwinked for the third time. We might be islanders, but we are perceptive. We have been fooled around too much by this Government in its short term of office. It would not win Denison even though it bought the Trades Hall for $425,000 when it was not worth $300,000 on the open market. More should be coming out about that. The unfortunate truth has come out, and that is that because the Labor Party lost Bass the arrogant  Mr Whitlam  said: 'Bother Tasmania. Cancel all we were to do. Forget it. Let us look for votes elsewhere '. I say once more to honourable senators on the Government side who want to remain in Government, which they will not, that the day the Labor Party breaks up within itself, which will not be too far ahead, will be the day when the Tasmanian electorate, whatever the other States do, will swing the numbers and lead to the formation of a Liberal Government. I say in conclusion: Poor Labor Party! In the condition in which Australia is and in the haste in which  Mr Hayden  had to prepare his Budget, I think that he did his reasonable best. But the 
Labor Party lacks leadership. It lacks cohesion. It lacks sincerity. It lacks ability. It lacks the wish to make Australia great as Australia was up to 2 December 1972. 1 support the amendment. 
The Minister representing the Attorney-General will recall that in the Senate on 22 April I asked for details of services provided by the Legal Aid Office in Tasmania with respect to persons seeking advice in connection with the Trade Practices Act. Is the Minister yet in a position to supply the information which I requested? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. As the twenty-ninth annual report of Trans-Australia Airlines disclosed a marked reduction in the profit of the airline in that the profit for the financial year ended 30 June 1974 amounted to only $100,000 after tax compared with the profit of* $1,966,000 for the financial year ended 30 June 1973, will the Minister inform the Senate, firstly, how many people were carried as passengers, excluding crew members and TAA employees, free of charge during the financial year ended 30 June 1 974? Secondly, had those people been required to pay the normal fares for their trips what would have been the additional revenue to the airline? Finally, in addition to employees, which relatives of any employees of TAA are entitled to free air travel? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Has his attention been drawn to the August 1975 edition of the  Health Economics Bulletin,  which states that the Canadian Government, faced with skyrocketing expenditure for hospital and medical benefits, has announced that it will change the basis on which its national health program is financed and is demanding that the provinces in Canada find cheaper ways of providing health care? As Medibank is said to be based largely on the Canadian scheme, does the Minister feel that the Australian States should be warned of what might happen to them if, as is widely felt, Medibank costs start to bankrupt the Australian Government? 

 - Senator Devitt, like a number of honourable senators, has made representations to the Postmaster-General on the matter of concessional rates for Christmas mail. My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Will the Minister inquire from his colleague whether he is aware of the complaints of residents of Devonport in Tasmania about the poor reception of Australian Broadcasting Commission television? If so, will he urge the Minister to ask the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take action to remedy the situation? 
-My question, which is addressed to the Acting Attorney-General, is further to a question that I asked on 28 August 1975 concerning the Australian Legal Aid Office and the services provided to persons seeking advice in connection with the Trade Practices Act. That question is recorded at page 360 of  Hansard  of that date. Can the Minister inform the Senate as to how many cases have been granted financial assistance towards litigation in respect of actions taken in Tasmania in connection with the Trade Practices Act? Have any persons been refused legal aid in respect of such actions on the ground of means? What criteria exist to determine the means of persons who may be seeking assistance in respect of legal actions? Is the Australian Legal Aid Office still advertising that it offers free legal aid? If so, is that not misleading advertising? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Pecuniary Interests of Members of the Parliament, I present the report of the Committee entitled  Declaration of Interests,  together with the transcript of evidence and minutes. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
As  Deputy Chairman  of the Committee, it is a very satisfying duty for me to report back to the Senate on the deliberations of the Committee and, in so doing, to present a unanimous report. The Committee embarked on its task faced with many seemingly insurmountable problems to be solved. How does one define the types of pecuniary interests which might be thought to conflict with a member's public responsibilities? How does one create a workable system of declaration of interests without making unjustified inroads into members' reasonable expectations of privacy? How does one institute such a system without creating a large administrative structure out of all proportion to the benefits which will flow from a register? The Committee has tackled these problems and many more in a manner which I believe does justice to the sincerity of the views expressed by members of Parliament and people from all walks of life who gave evidence to the Committee. 
The members of the Committee and indeed the people of Australia, in my belief, owe a debt of gratitude to and should congratulate the  Chairman  of the Committee, the Honourable J. M. Riordan, for his handling of a very difficult assignment, made all the more onerous because of his elevation to the Ministry during the meetings of the Committee. During the period of the Committee's work two of its members became members of the Ministry, the second one of course being the No. 1 man in the Australian Labor Party New South Wales Senate team, the Honourable James McClelland. The unanimous view of the Committee expressed in this report is, I believe, a reflection of the earnest desire of every one of its members to preserve and enhance the dignity of the institution of Parliament and those who serve in it. At no stage in its deliberations was the Committee under any illusion that a register could be devised which would be incapable of evasion. But that did not deter the Committee from its task. The usefulness of a register lies not in the ability to detect fraud or impropriety but as a means of assuring the public that decisions affecting it are made in the public interest. I believe the recommendations made by the Committee will go a long way towards achieving that goal. 
The Committee devoted a lengthy chapter of the report, Chapter III, to a discussion of the many arguments which had been advanced for and against the concept of a register. Many of the fears and reservations of some witnesses concerning such things as the invasion of privacy and administrative complexity have been accommodated in the central recommendations of the report. That is to the effect that a declaration of interests system should be instituted whereby members of Parliament are required merely to declare their interests in general terms. An example of this approach is the recommendation that members of Parliament be required to declare the names of companies in which they have a beneficial interest but need not disclose the actual value of any shareholdings. This form of declaration would not necessitate the continual alteration of the register to reflect changes in the size of a member's shareholding in a particular company, but it would provide a starting point for any person who felt that a member was not acting in the public interest. Such a person could then search the share register of that company to ascertain the size of the shareholding of the particular Member of Parliament. 
Clause 1 (c) of the Committee's terms of reference required it to consider what classes of persons other than members of Parliament ought to be required to register their pecuniary interests. In an attempt to answer this part of its terms of reference, the Committee received evidence from representatives of the Public Service, ministerial staff and the media- 3 components of our society which can have a vital function in the public decision-making process. The Committee concluded that different forms of declaration of interests would be appropriate for each of these 3 groups and has made recommendations and suggested general guidelines accordingly. 
I recall the  Chairman, Mr Riordan,  saying when declaring open the first public hearing of the Committee in Sydney in January of this year:   . . the subject for investigation and report of this Committee is complex and to some extent, controversial. 
That has proved to be a prophetic comment. I am sure I would be expressing the sentiments of the  Chairman  as well as of myself when I thank the members of the Committee for the way in which they undertook their task during the Committee 's more difficult times. It is a tribute to the dedication of the members of this Committee that a unanimous conclusion was reached by members of 3 political parties in the 2 Houses of the Parliament on the contents of this report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later date. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. Motion ( by  Senator Marriott)  proposed: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
Seldom in 23 years have I delayed the Senate on an adjournment motion and less seldom have I stayed to listen. I certainly would not have put my name down to speak tonight if I had known that I had to suffer such stupidities and nonsense. But I believe in the principle of fair play.  Mr President,  today it was not my turn to be called to ask a question. I wanted to ask a question of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  because of an attack he made following a Dorothy Dix question from  Senator McAuliffe.  He made an attack on the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who is the shadow minister for social security in the Liberal-Country Party coalition opposition. Unfortunately I could not ask my question in broadcast time but I want to put it in the same  Hansard  as records the attack on the honourable member for Hotham. As far as I recall  Senator Wheeldon  's reply to the question, it was stated that he was interviewed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission about the Australian Government Insurance Corporation by a  Mr Paul  Davy of Sydney who telephoned the Minister. On the program  AM  either that day or the next day the honourable member for Hotham was quoted as answering questions which were put to him by  Mr Duncan  of the ABC in Sydney in a telephone call to Melbourne. 
The full transcript of the interview by telephone will prove that  Mr Duncan  questioned  Mr Chipp  about national compensation and did not mention in the recorded interview the Australian Government Insurance Corporation. It will be recalled that in the Senate this afternoon  Senator Wheeldon,  as a Minister replying to a question said, in brief terms, that it was obvious that  Mr Chipp  did not know anything about the AIGC and the difference between it and the National Compensation Bill. I had knowledge of  Mr Chipp's  concern at the abbreviated and distorted reportage by  AM  of a portion of the telephone interview, so I told  Mr Chipp  of what had happened in the Senate and got his leave to produce and read in the Senate an extract from a letter which he had written to the editor of  AM  asking for an explanation of what  Mr Chipp  suggested in his fairness was unwitting misreporting of his participation in the recorded interview. I will keep the Senate only another 2'/6 to 3 minutes.  Mr Chipp  took the opportunity, having received the information from me, of making a personal explanation in the House of Representatives. On being given the authority to make a personal explanation he said: 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Australian Broadcasting Commission's morning program  AM.  I would not normally have bothered about making a personal explanation because I believe that I was unwittingly misrepresented by the  AM  program but because  Senator Wheeldon- 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Media. Will he ask his colleague to inquire from the Australian Broadcasting Commission as to whether any action can be taken to enable Australian Broadcasting Commission television in Launceston to provide proper facilities for the conveyance of news film to Hobart or for the transmission of news film from Launceston to the Hobart television studios so that the Australian Broadcasting Commission television news service can give a proper coverage of northern Tasmanian news? 
Has the Minister for Labor and Immigration and Minister assisting the Prime Minister in matters relating to the Public Service read a report in the Sydney newspaper, the  Daily Telegraph,  of 4 September of this year, in which a person who was recently appointed to a senior Public Service position admitted to being an anarchist? In the light of that article, will the Minister advise the Senate whether there are any checks made relating to the security ratings of persons appointed to senior positions within the Government? If so, does the Minister consider it to be wise to appoint people such as anarchists to responsible and influential positions in the Australian Public Service? 
On the lighter side, I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Is it known in how many buildings throughout Australia the Government has placed framed coloured photographs of the Prime Minister? On whose order was this action taken? What has been the total cost to date of this exercise in publicity? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Did the Minister today, in answer to a question from  Senator Carrick  earlier, regarding the exit from Cabinet of  Mr R.  F. X. Connor, state that the Prime Minister took action to obtain  Mr Connor's  resignation? Is it also true that the Australian Labor Party Caucus confirmed this Whitlam activity by about fifty-five votes to twenty five? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Will the Minister inquire from his colleague whether the Government is considering the proposals put forward by the Australian Medical Association, as reported in the  Australian  on 5 August 1975, relating to controls of boxing in light of the fact that 88 deaths have resulted from boxing in Australia, mostly from delayed brain haemorrhages? 
Will the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs consider making arrangements for at least one officer in each Australian embassy, consulate or high commission to have a certain amount of training in customs regulations in order that embassies, consulates or high commissions will be able to advise Australians travelling overseas of the regulations relating to the importation of goods? 
I rise to speak in support of this Bill but commence by regretting what I call the 'undue delay' by the Government in calling this Bill on so it could become law. I shall try not to transgress Standing Orders but I say sincerely that I can accuse the Government of sending to the Senate Bill after Bill of little importance, that the Government knows will be rejected; of spending a lot of time on them; and of disobeying the wish of the  President  of the Tasmanian branch of the Australian Labor Party- I think  Mr Doug  Lowe, the  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania, is still the  President  of that branch. Some months ago, he urged the Whitlam Government to get on with legislation that would help the people and not to waste so much time in trying to enforce changes that it knew would not come into law. It is my belief as a layman that the need for this Bill is great in order to save the Federal Government and perhaps the State Government and contractors from committing illegalities. 
The Government set up a Commission with the Chief Commissioner of our Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission,  Sir Allan  Knight, as its  Chairman.  That Commission has done its best under great difficulties and in full co-operation, where that was possible, with State and Federal Governments to get on with the job of restoring the Tasman Bridge. But I believe that too much emphasis is being put by the Federal and State governments upon saying: 'What wonderful people we are; look at all the things we have achieved; look at all the money we have promised in years to come in order, first of all, to overcome the emergency situation and then to repair your bridge- your lifeline; and look at the promise of a second crossing of the Derwent in the future'. I believe that the supply of the emergency measures has been good but I believe that an Australian government and a State government should be big enough and should have the resources to get on with 2 aspects: Firstly, the supply of the emergency services and, secondly, the reconstruction of the bridge. About a month ago the Hobart  Mercury  stated: 
Hobartians have been assured that if it had not been for the Commonwealth ship  LakeIllawarra  knocking down part of the Tasman Bridge, they ultimately would not have had it so good. 
In other words, if they had not lost their bridge, ultimately they would not have had it so good. The newspaper editorial continued: 
This was the message given by the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  when he proudly proclaimed that because of prompt and generous Federal help, 'transport across the Derwent will be very much better than it ever was before.'  Mr Whitlam  should remember that all the millions his Government is pumping into restoring the Derwent links will do little to compensate for the financial liabilities and social disruptions that look like continuing for years yet. 
His claim that the City of Hobart will be much better planned and much better equipped as a result of the Government 's response and initiative is dubious at best. An extra lane on the Tasman Bridge was inevitable, as was an extra crossing. 
I would add the words  'Lake Illawarra  or no  Lake Illawarra'.  The editorial continues: 
The smashing of the Bridge merely persuaded the Federal Government that it had a moral, if not legal responsibility and a political necessity - 
I stress the words 'political necessity'-  to open the purse. The political necessity would have remained whether or not the Tasman Bridge had been smashed. It probably could have been stalled off a little longer, like the Antarctic base at Kingston. 
The Federal Government cannot be held primarily responsible for the incredibly frustrating delays in getting on with restoring links. The State Government and irresponsible unionists must share this culpability. 
I agree with those sentiments completely. Long term repairs are not yet apparent for the reasons I gave when quoting from that article in the  Mercury.  I commute across the harbour at least twice a week and I still see the gaping hole. I understand that the oil has not been taken out of the. Lake Illawarra yet as we approach the first anniversary of the disaster. I understand that the cargo is still in the holds or perhaps is floating down the bed of the River Derwent causing . further pollution. We are not told that. 
I understand that no contract has yet been let to salvage the  Lake Illawarra.  I believe that some school of engineers fear- perhaps groundlessly- that leaving the  Lake Illawarra  at the base of one of the piers or pylons could be a danger in years to come. As an emergency measure we were promised a Bailey bridge across, I think, the most narrow part of the Derwent River, which is up near the northern suburbs. My information is that a year will pass from the smashing of the Tasman Bridge before the Bailey bridge is in position. In wartime that bridge would have been across in a fortnight or 3 weeks. However, it was not all the Government's fault. Unfortunately, there was grave union trouble. 

 Mr Whitlam, as Prime Minister, in his enthusiasm and because of political necessity, appointed  Mr Lance  Barnard- not, I think, his  deputy  at that time but the Minister for Defence and therefore the senior Australian Labor Party man in Tasmania- to be the liaison officer or Minister between the Australian Government, the State Government and the Tasman Bridge Reconstruction Commission. I do not think  Mr Barnard  can do much in that job as  His Excellency  in Stockholm. I have yet to learn of any interest by the Australian Government in replacing  Mr Barnard  with a new liaison officer. For those who do not know Hobart or who may think that we may be parochial in complaining about the problems this bridge has caused I shall refer to an independent survey into the Tasman Bridge disaster prepared by the Faculty of Education at the University of Tasmania. I emphasise that this was an independent survey and I understand was undertaken on the faculty's own initiative. One question was: 
Who do you think is most aware of the difficulties of life on the eastern shore? 
That is the shore which is opposite the city proper. The answers were: 
Clarence Council- 67.81 percent. 
State Government- 4.06 per cent. 
Federal Government- 0.00 per cent. 
That shows the amazing confidence the people on the eastern shore, who are the most disadvantaged, have in our Federal Government. They were asked: 
What of the effect during all the delays in linking east and west? 
The survey revealed that there were disruptions to the domestic routine of many householders. The report states: 
The bridge collapse obviously made a huge impact on the social life of the eastern shore. The fall in social trips to friends and relatives - 
Both young and aged-  on the western shore provides the most dramatic evidence of changed social patterns. 
The report continues: 
The most severe form of deterioration in relationships was seen in the separation of families. . . . Many respondents believed their aged parents would deteriorate very rapidly if they were unable to keep regular contact with their families. 
Other interesting results produced by the survey were as follows: There was a significant increase in the number of persons using tranquillisers since the bridge collapsed; 40 per cent of those interviewed knew of someone who claimed to be depressed much of the time because of the collapse of the bridge; nearly 5 per cent of those interviewed had resigned their jobs because of the difficulties following the bridge collapse; and 51.88 per cent felt that the State Government had not handled the affairs of the eastern shore, since the bridge collapse, in a satisfactory manner. I do not want the Australian Government to hide behind the incompetence of the State Government. I ask honourable senators to remember that the people who were asked said that the Australian Government had 0.00 per cent interest in the welfare of the people of the eastern shore. 
In Howrah, the suburb of the Leader of the Government in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  the survey found that 67.5 per cent of people are finding that the bridge collapse is making things worse for family life. There is less of minerals and energy on the eastern shore because of the bridge collapse, unless the minerals are flowing down past the suburb from the  Lake Illawarra.  I say quite sincerely that we in Tasmania- that is, practically the whole of Tasmania- are affected very seriously in some way or another by the collapse of the bridge. When the enthusiasm of political necessity was apparent the Government was talking about a 2-year delay. Now some, maybe pessimistic- I hope not- are talking about 4 years of delay before the collapsed bridge will be repaired. I remind members of the Australian Government that if they had been in opposition and if a ship owned by private enterprise had smashed into the bridge, there would have been a cry for all sorts of commissions of inquiries, insults, inferences and allegations; but because the ship belonged to the Government it is my belief that the Government has been as quiet as possible. It is ready to leave the  Lake Illawarra  deepening down into the sandy mud of the River Derwent. 
It has been reported to me by  Mr Ian  Braid, the honourable member for Wilmot in the Tasmanian House of Assembly, that since September he has been writing to the Premier asking for some financial subsidy for people living on the Tasman Peninsula who used to be 128 miles away from the city of Hobart but now are 1 90 miles away. 
These are people down on the Tasman Peninsula. 
I ask the honourable senator to have a look at the Tasman Peninsula. 
These are people who live 128 miles from the city of Hobart via the Tasman Bridge. Now they live 1 90 miles away for a return trip. I am sorry, I understand the honourable senator's point. This is for a return trip. That led to a very great increase in freight charges, and most of the people lived in a rural area. When writing back to  Mr Braid,  the Premier- I will not read all of his letter; it is signed by  Mr Lowe  for the Premier- said: 
You will be aware that the Australian Government has provided very considerable funds to help overcome the difficulties created by the collapse of the Bridge, especially the transport of commuters by ferries and improved road facilities by means of construction of the Old Beach Road. However, to date it has not been prepared to provide funds to subsidise commercial losses or to provide freight subsidies. 
I regret that in the absence of Australian Government funds for this purpose it is not possible for the State Government to provide funds by way of a freight subsidy. 
I received that letter only this week. However, as soon as time permits I will be making representations in the right places to the effect that there be a serious look to the provision of subsidies for freight, otherwise the carriers will go off the road and there will be further grave and serious hardships to be faced. I conclude by saying that the Opposition supports the Bill, but it does plead with the Government to get on with the job, to cut out the red tape, and to give  Sir Allan  Knight and the Commission every help available. The money has been promised but what we need is help and progress. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I speak in a loud voice because I hope that I am never ashamed to have heard what I have to say. I do not deny that I said 'Probably the author of it', because I know that  Senator Everett  as a learned Q.C. and  Deputy  Premier of Tasmania for many years has been the engine that made the Tasmanian Government work as it did work. I thought that this letter was a move which was probably engineered by  Senator Everett.  If I have insulted or offended the honourable senator, I withdraw unreservedly. I now ask leave of the Senate to make a brief personal explanation in regard to an allegation made by  Senator Cavanagh. 
It was inferred twice mot directly in the speech by  Senator Cavanagh,  who is a minister of the Crown, that I do not bother to read my correspondence. I can assure the honourable senator and all honourable senators that every letter that comes into my office at Parliament House is read by me and that I am informed of every letter that arrives each day at my electoral office. I support  Senator Rae's  remarks that Labor senators should be the last to infer that we have not received our mail, as the postal services under the Labor administration are becoming more expensive and more inefficient. When I get the Premier's letterwhoever was its author- the Premier will get my views as to its contents. 
I address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is any action being taken to ensure the safety of the lives of Australian Government employees in Beirut? Has consideration been given to withdrawing the officers and their families to a safe area? 

 -Mr President, may I make a personal explanation? 
Yes. During his speech when I interjected once  Senator Everett  said he knew that I was having trouble with my research officer. I completely refute that. The research officer whom I employ is a full time Australian Government public servant and a sacked member of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr R.  J. Mulcahy, in whom I have every faith and trust. He is a man of brilliance in the work that he is doing, and it is not right to criticise him in this cowards' chamber, as  Senator Everett  has done. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the continuing deterioration of the situation in the Lebanon and the war-torn city of Beirut, can the Minister provide any information additional to that which he already has given to the Senate in reply to questions by  Senator Devitt  and me relative to ensuring the safety of Australians there? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. At page 2706 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 30 October in answer to a question the Leader of the Opposition, the Honourable Malcolm Fraser, was informed by the Minister in that place representing the Minister for Social Security, as follows: 
All Medibank premises are leased; the Health Insurance Commission does not own any premises. 
Will the Mininster inform the Senate who owns the building occupied by Medibank in Hobart? To whom is the rent paid? What is the annual rental? 
