1 am deeply mindful of the honour and privilege afforded to me to second the motion, so ably moved by  Senator Rae,  for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  His Excellency  the Governor-General of Australia. The procedure is synonymous with British parliamentary democracy which we have come to respect and cherish in a world in which many forms of government are practised, in many cases to the detriment of the people concerned. We now have an opportunity to express loyalty to  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and we are mindful of the fact that in a few weeks time  Her  Majesty, together with Prince Philip, the Prince of Wales and Princess Anne, will be with us to share the occasion when we celebrate the bi-centenary of the discovery of Australia by Captain Cook. It is fitting that our Sovereign will be here for such an occasion. Australia has enjoyed many achievements in the 200 years since its discovery. 
The Governor-General,  Sir Paul  Hasluck, on behalf of  Her  Majesty, has carried out with distinction the opening of the second session of the Twenty-seventh Parliament and we hope that his term of office will be long and fruitful one. Following upon an election for the House of Representatives and the filling of two vacancies in the Senate the Governed was returned to Office with a greatly reduced majority. I believe that the Prime Minister can be reasonably satisfied with the election result. I say this, firstly, because the Australian elector believes that the best government is obtained when the difference between the numbers of members on the Government side and the Opposition is very small. Therefore, we could expect a sharp reaction to the record majority which the Government had in the twenty-sixth Parliament. 
Also, 20 years of continuous rule by one party in government is a great deal more than the general Australian public expects. Normally, well within that period, the public is looking for a change of government. Up to date, the public has not been game to trust the official Opposition. Another factor influencing the election result was the outward appearance of unity that emanated from the Opposition during the election campaign. The projection of the Leader of the Opposition as a man to govern implied that the Australian Labor Party was prepared to leave its policy to those members of the Party who formed the Government and to give its leader more power and had its effect at the ballot box. But the power of the Leader of the Opposition was short lived because a few days before the Parliament met we discovered that three of his supporters had been dropped from the Opposition Executive to be replaced by three left wingers. It will be interesting to see how long this appearance of unity continues. 
In view of these factors, and taking into account the relevant problems associated with them, I believe that the result of the election from the point of view- 
Yes, I was referring to the Leader of the Opposition in the other place, the Leader who took the Opposition to the people in the last election. In view of these factors, and taking into account the relevant problems associated with people in country areas compared with their city brothers, I believe that the result in the last House of Representatives election from the point of view of the Australian Country Party was most gratifying. Although the Australian Country Party lost one seat, it gained another to maintain its numbers. This reflects the confidence of country people in the Australian Country Party. They believe that it will look after their welfare more effectively than will  the Australian Labor Party, despite the desperate promises that were made by the Australian Labor Party to capture the votes of country people. 
Because of the support that we have received, it is our duly to identify the causes of the problems that are besetting primary industry and, in conjunction with our Liberal Party colleagues, to devise ways and means of combating these problems and ensuring that our farmers enjoy a fair share of the wealth and prosperity in this country towards which they have contributed so much. Successive coalition governments since 1949 provided policies and incentives based on the wishes of primary industries concerned. These have resulted in the expansion of the primary industries of this nation. A terrific export income has been built up. The great record of achievement that has resulted from the actions of these successive governments has assisted, ironically enough, in bringing about the present position with regard to some of our products. 
A sizeable export industry has been built up for such items as sugar, wheat and dairy products. The breakdown in the marketing arrangements and price structure in the world has resulted in a large proportion of these products seliing on world markets at prices well below the cost of production. Fortunately, the new International Sugar Agreement which the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr McEwen,  and the Premier of Queensland helped negotiate has resulted in prices in world markets which augur well for our sugar industry. 
Unfortunately, the position is not so clear with regard to wheat and dairy products. This marketing problem has created a situation in which producers are faced wilh ever increasing costs but are receiving lower prices for their commodities. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order!  Senator Keeffe,  you will please stop interjecting.  Senator Maunsell  has the floor; you have not. 1 call  Senator Maunsell. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy President.  Of course, Opposition senators do not like to hear this. The Australian community must face the fact that the present buoyant economy and the affluent society in which we live are irrevocably dependent upon the infusion of overseas funds. These overseas funds may be obtained in various ways. They may be obtained by the sale of our primary products, by selling minerals mainly in their raw state, by the export of other products including manufactured products or by the bringing into this country of overseas capital. The value of exports of farm produce today still represents 55% of our total overseas income. During many periods in the early 1960s, the value of the export of farm produce represented over 80% of our overseas income. It is only since the spectacular developments in the mineral field that farm produce has fallen to this lower proportion of the total overseas income. In 1969, it was 55% of that total. 
As  Senator Prowse  has said, together- with the fall in prices. While overseas capital is desirable for our continued growth and while certainly the great expansion in the export of minerals has been very beneficial to this country, it is the export of our own products owned by our own people which is undoubtedly of the greatest benefit to the wealth of this nation. Without this outbalance of payments and, in fact, our whole economy could be in serious trouble. Overseas capital could be cut off overnight and there is nothing that we could do about it. The necessity for continuing and expanding our exports must be of prime importance. Incentive should be given to those engaged in the production of this wealth. 
When dealing with assistance to industry, too many people think that the only assistance given to industry is by way of subsidies to so-called inefficient primary producers or farmers. No appreciation at all is said about the help tariff protection affords our home industries from competition on world markets. Tariffs enable these industries to sell at profitable prices, sometimes well above world market prices. If we were to refer to the assistance given to export industries to obtain much needed export income as bonuses or as cost compensation for export production, and if the public were made more aware of the importance of export income to the wealth of this nation, I feel that there would be a greater acceptance of the necessity to help our primary industries. 
No doubt the Opposition and its spokesmen on rural affairs will take every opportunity for political purposes to incite farmers against the Government. Rash promises about support for wheat farmers and wool producers have been made without any appreciation of the real problem, which is the cost-price squeeze. The announced policy of  Mr Hawke,  who has pressed for substantial increases in wages, shorter hours and the introduction of equal pay without delay, together with the Australian Labor Party's policy, outlined by  Mr Whitlam,  of spending huge sums of money in urban areas would send costs spiralling and the effects on the primary industries would be disastrous. Has the Opposition been to the farmers and explained to them the effects of these announced policies and what compensation measures are envisaged? Until this is done all promises made by the Opposition are sheer hypocrisy. 1 refer now to the wool industry, which is still Australia's greatest export earner but which is the industry which receives the least direct assistance. The wool industry is now in real trouble because of low prices. The situation in the industry is accentuated in many parts of Queensland by a prolonged drought which has extended over several years. I might mention at this stage that many parts of Queensland still suffer from drought. There now appear to be signs in the wool industry that the strong resistance to any form of marketing, other than the auction system, and resistance to any sort of Government control are starting to weaken. It is hoped that the leaders of the many organisations which represent the wool industry will pull together and devise a scheme which will make the industry solvent. What the industry needs more than anything else at the moment is an infusion of money to compensate for low prices until a more satisfactory method of disposing of our wool has been devised and, in particular, until a means of reducing the costs associated with the present wool selling system has been arrived at. Cost compensation, calculated  as  a  percentage of the gross income, in my view is far preferable to a straight out subsidy per pound of wool. The introduction of a system of cost compensation would enable the producers of good wool to receive just compensation and would encourage wool producers to continue producing this type of wool. We have heard much in recent times about retaining our national heritage, the great merino wool industry, but the best way that we can do this is by enabling the producers to grow merino wool more profitably. 
At this stage I must draw to the attention of the Senate the serious drought position that has prevailed for number of years in Queensland. As Queensland is mainly a summer rainfall area, we have only March and April left in which we can expect general rain. If rain fails to arrive large areas of northern and Western Queensland will again be in dire circumstances. Not only does the drought affect the primary producers in those areas but also it has a very serious effect on the towns in those regions. The people in these towns are part and parcel of our export industries and they do their job without having the benefit of the amenities available to city dwellers. The fact that this drought and its effects have been felt for so long has made the problem very serious. We have seen headlines at times about the serious problems brought about by bush fires, cyclones and floods. Those problems have received immediate attention and substantial help has been given. 
The drought relief which has been given by the Federal Government at the request of the Queensland Government over the years has been substantial, and it will have been noted from the Governor-General's Speech that relief is expected to reach SI 5m this year. This help is appreciated very much, but it still will not get those affected out of trouble. Rather than have this hand to mouth relief that we see at the moment, the best way to help the producers is to get them back into production as quickly as possible when the drought breaks. There is evidence that it is breaking in certain parts of Queensland already. Not only will assistance of this type help the producers to become solvent as quickly as possible but also, when it is realised that 95% of our wool and more than half the beef produced in Queensland is exported, it will be appreciated that Australia will so much sooner come back into the export field. Adequate finance by way of re-stocking loans and transport subsidies is the best way to help the grazing industry because our stock numbers are depleted in those areas and graziers will have to go into New South Wales to purchase stock. 
I was very pleased to see in the Governor-General's Speech that $100m has been allocated for irrigation and that of that amount $12.8m has already been given for the building of the Monduran Dam on the Kolan River. That area is one of the richest farming districts in Australia, but because of recurring droughts this area particularly has suffered tremendous losses. It has been estimated that the loss of sugar cane alone for 2 drought years will be $32m. The city of Bundaberg derives its water from the underground supply, which in recent years has become alarmingly low and in danger of salination. So it will be seen that the money that the Federal Government has given for the construction of the Monduran Dam is appreciated very much by the people in the area and is coming at a time when it is really needed. While on the subject of water conservation I. should mention that a very acute position has arisen in a small sugar district in north Queensland around the town of Giru, which is 20 miles south of Townsville. In the past this area has been able to draw its water supply from the Haughton River. Although cyclone 'Ada' passed within 100 miles of the Haughton River, the area is still dry. It missed out completely and unless there is rain in that area within the next few weeks the whole sugar crop for that district will be lost and the growers will not be able to produce 1 ton of sugar this year. Although the State Government will be able to provide some water for these people. 1 hope that the area will not be forgotten when finally the Burdekin scheme comes under consideration. 
I deal next with electricity. We appreciate very much the Federal Government's offer of a powerhouse in central Queensland. The discovery of large quantities of minerals in Queensland augurs well for the future. Not only will this bring about prosperous communities in our northern and western areas but also, with far-sighted policies on the part of both Federal and State governments, we may see the day when our so- called empty north will have a reasonably large population. The key to populating the north lies in the production of cheap power for the excavation and treatment of our minerals close to the source of origin. The loan from the Commonwealth towards the building of the large powerhouse at Gladstone is most welcome,, but a great deal more must be considered in the near future as new mineral fields are developed. Nickel production from the deposits at Greenvale, north west of Townsville, will require vast quantities of cheap power if the north is to gain the benefit of its own resources. 
In dealing with the central Queensland powerhouse at Gladstone, I ask the Federal Government to give serious consideration to extending its present loan agreement to include a high voltage transmission line between Blackwater and Longreach. The estimated cost of this line is $3m. At present power is being generated in western Queensland by the Central Western Regional Electricity Board and generating plants are situated at Longreach and Barcaldine, from which the power is transmitted to other small centres and to the regional community. Although the use of electricity is increasing as the rural electricity schemes are developed, the cost of producing power is far too great. The cost of producing power at Longreach and Barcaldine powerhouses is estimated at 2.42c per unit compared with .63c at Callide, which is far lower than is envisaged at the new power house at Gladstone. The Central Western Regional Electricity Board estimates thar it could purchase bulk power delivered to the central west for 1.3c per unit or nearly half the present cost of generating power in that area. I ask the Commonwealth Government to consider this aspect so that people in the remoter areas may get power at a reasonable price. 
Another aspect that concerns me greatly is the growing trend in this country - a trend that 1 feel is a danger to the democracy and freedom that we have won over the years, and a trend that is condoned by many - to buck authority, the laws of the land and our law making institutions under the guise of freedom of speech, the rights of the individual and the rights of minorities. Some young people seem to regard the universities as a sanctuary wherein they can flout the law and be protected against the police and other law enforcing bodies 
Irrespective of what- the . majority may desire. In recent times we have had the experience of trade union executives setting themselves up as the final court in the land to pass judgment on, the Government's policy. This indicates that renewed pressure from the Communists' and their fellow travellers is being exerted on the most vulnerable section of the community. 
The decision by certain unions to place a black ban on the export of merino rams has reached the height of impertinence. This is a matter that does not concern them. This is purely a matter for the wool industry, and the unions have no more right to interfere in the policies of the wool industry . than the graziers have to interfere in the policies of the unions concerned. I wonder what would be the reaction of the unions and their supporters here if the Graziers Association were to give financial support to a minority group in the unions to bring about a change in union policies. Whatever we may feel about the lifting of the embargo, the decision was made by the government of the day constitutionally elected by the people. Under British democracy as we know it the elected representatives of the people have the final say. If it were not so the result would be to destroy the very freedoms and rights that it has taken us so many years to achieve. An ironical twist to the whole sorry business has come from the fact that 12 of the rams were sold to Communist China. To be branded by the Peking bosses as Fascist unions must have hurt considerably some of these union people unless, of course, they belong to the Moscow mob. 
Another sorry episode was the resolution in Victoria by a group of trade union leaders recommending to our troops in Vietnam action which can only be described as mutiny. Although there was much ducking for cover by the people concerned when the full implications of the resolution were realised, there can be no doubt about what their thinking and their views were. Every loyal Australian should regard this episode as a sharp reminder of what is in store for the future. 
In dealing with the Department of Housing there are a few matters I should like to mention about the homes savings grant. Firstly, the upper limit of $15,000 on the value of a house, which I understand will be raised to $17,500, applies all over the 
Commonwealth irrespective of building costs. While 1 appreciate that it would be difficult to have varying amounts in different parts of the country, it does create a problem for the remoter areas where building costs are extremely high. In fact, in some parts of western Queensland building costs are 60% higher than they are in coastal cities. The remoter areas do not have sufficient building contractors and there are many instances where the cost of modest homes far exceeds the limit applying under this scheme. I hope that more elasticity will apply so that people in the remoter areas do not miss out on this form of assistance. 
The Department of Housing has an office in Townsville. Although this is much appreciated there is much criticism of its functions, mainly because the office is staffed by only one person who is supposed to answer the telephone, attend to the mail, inspect war service homes and visit other towns in the area. Honourable senators can imagine what happens. Surely in an area like Townsville, which is expanding rapidly, there is need for a secretary-typist to relieve the officer in charge so that he can attend to more important duties. 
Many matters of great importance to Australians are referred to in the GovernorGeneral's Speech. We are very happy that the Government has decided to establish the Institute of Marine Science in Townsville. The Institute will study the Barrier Reef and its marine life, about which very little is known at the moment. We hope that in time the Institute will not only aid research in this area but will assist in developing a much improved tourist industry on the northern coastline of Queensland. I could discuss many more topics but my time has expired. I know that other honourable senators will discuss in detail many of the subjects covered in the Governor-General's Speech. I trust that the Australian public generally will be heartened by what is envisaged in our legislative programme in the next few months. I have much pleasure in seconding the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. Are the  chemical detergents intended for use to disperse the oil slick near Cape York Peninsula harmful in any way to marine life or the pearling industry? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to the wool economic research report of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics concerning the structure of the Japanese wool industry? Is he aware of the section dealing with hint buying in which it is claimed that the practice of spreading orders has caused unnecessary competition among Japanese wool buyers at auctions and therefore the hint buying system has been introduced to set a ceiling on prices bid at auction? Would the disastrous prices being received at wool auctions in Australia recently indicate the measure of success of this system? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Primary Industry to keep this matter under close scrutiny? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the serious drought position which once again exists in many parts of Queensland, particularly western Queensland, due to the non-arrival of the normal wet season, and in view of the serious financial position faced by most people both in the towns and on the land as a result of years of drought, will the Prime Minister consider as a matter of extreme urgency the latest request from the Premier of Queensland for Commonwealth assistance? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air and it follows upon a question asked earlier by  Senator Buttfield.  If Australia does decide to take the Phantom aircraft will the Royal Australian Air Force require tankers? If so. could the Hercules aircraft which are at present in use by the RAAF be converted to tankers? If not, what aircraft arc under consideration as tankers and what is the estimated cost of such tankers? 
Yes, except in respect of exports to New Zealand. Then we came to 1950 and suddenly it was decided that perhaps merino semen could be exported and used to good effect, so it was not until L9S0 that it was decided that a ban should be placed on the export of merino semen, lt would be interesting to know whether the experts on the other side of the chamber could tell the difference between merino semen, corriedale semen or any other semen which it was sought to export. Another interesting factor is that science has developed to the extent that today the fertilised ova or foetus of a sheep can be transferred to another ewe - perhaps one of the British breeds - but still retain the genetics of the mated animal. When it came to export, 1 wonder who could tell ihe difference between a corriedale ewe which is in lamb through being mated and one which is in lamb because the foetus has been transferred. Then we have the PO.warths which are about seven-eighths merino. Most stud breeders cannot tell the difference between polwarths and merinos, yet polwarths can be exported. It is quite amazing that in 1956 in New South Wales there were only 250,000 polwarths and last year that figure had risen to about 550,000. In Victoria the number of polwarths increased, and in Tasmania the number increased from 718,000 to 1,218,000. 
Inasmuch as they can both be exported there is no difference. I wonder whether stud breeders could tell the difference between sheep which are fifteen-sixteenths merino and those which are pure merino. I wonder whether customs officials, members of the Waterside Workers Federation of Australia or the Transport Workers' Union of Australia, or anyone else could tell the difference. Last year when the lifting of the ban was first announced many breeders came to Australia hoping to buy merinos, but then the ban was not lifted so the breeders bought polwarths. Who are you or I to know whether they were actually polwarths that went out of Australia? We would like to know what has been the result of this ban. When the ban was first applied I believe it was in order to save for the Australian sheep breeder that unique fine wool that he had been able to produce in Australia because of our environmental conditions. It was believed that if we could retain a monopoly of these fine wools and restrict the market there would be a demand for our wool, that the price would go up, we would all be happy and everyone in the grazing industry would be prosperous. 
It is interesting to note the breakup of the Australian wool clip as shown in the first figures which are available, that is, in 1940-41 which was the first year of the Joint Organisation during the war. We do not have a complete breakup of the Australian wool clip prior to that. In 1940-41 our fine wools, which were the 64/ 70s, 64s and 70s, represented 53.7% of the Australian wool clip. That was quite a sizable amount of the Australian wool clip. Today those grades of fine wool represent 13.7% of our wool clip. So while the merino ban has been in existence with the purpose of protecting our fine wool so that we could have a monopoly of this grade of wool, the Australian wool grower has reduced his production of fine wool from 53% to 13%. I wonder why that happened? The argument advanced by those who are in favour of the ban being lifted is that it has been detrimental to the Australian wool industry. The reason they give is that unfortunately we are not able to produce enough fine wool for the world and, consequently, the manufacturers who are setting up factories decide that as they cannot get this product they will turn to something else which is available. It is suggested that this is why they have turned to synthetics and why the production of fine wools has been reduced. I am a wool grower who lives in an area where fine wool can be produced, and we have all switched to the production of medium and strong wool. 
Because the price for the medium and strong wools has been almost the same as for fine wools and we can put 50% more into the bales, because the sheep produce 50% more per head. So the return is far more lucrative for medium and strong wools than it is for fine wool. The argument that we should maintain the ban in order to retain the monopoly of fine wools for Australia, as a result of which the prices would go up, has been completetly refuted. I come now to the third line of argument which I believe is the most important line that the growers are taking, that is, that if we allow the export of merino rams and if we allow overseas breeders to compete with our own flock breeders the price will go up. This is what they are afraid of. These growers think: 'We have been buying rams for $50 or $100 and the price will go up to SI 50*. But the law of supply and demand applies, and I think everyone would agree that you cannot expect to buy a Rolls Royce at a Holden price. If you want to buy a Rolls Royce you have to pay for it. If you want to buy a top merino ram, you have to pay for it. If there are a number of other people who are prepared to pay top money for top rams, the incentive will be there for stud merino breeders to concentrate on breeding more of these animals, on putting more money into their production. What is happening today? In the last 15 years at least half of our major parent studs have gone out of business simply because they cannot sell their sheep; the business is not a lucrative one. They are not getting sufficient money for their top rams. 
I am a wool grower in an area where we cannot diversify. We cannot turn to wheat, although possibly we could turn to cattle. We are very interested in anything that happens in the wool industry. It is amazing that in western Queensland over the last 10 years the policy of the wool growers has always been to relax the ban, and that policy has not altered. These are the people who would be affected more than anybody else by the lifting of the ban. From where are all the screams coming? How do we know that they are not coming from the polwarth breeders and the breeders of other British sheep who can export their rams? These breeders might fear that the merino breeders could be coming into a lucrative market over which they have a hold at the present time. 1 do not blame them for adopting that attitude, but why should they have a say as to whether merinos should be exported or not? I believe that this is entirely a matter for the merino breeders, not a matter for people who have a vested interest in saying that the merinos should remain in Australia, as, I believe, have the breeders of British sheep and of polwarths. 
It is very interesting to note the figures relating to the world's wool consumption. The estimated world production of wool last year was 6,139 million lb, of which Australia produced 2,023 million lb. or 33% of the world's total production of wool. The world's production of merino wool was 2,348 million lb. of which Australia's production was 1,093 million lb. or 46.6% of the world's total production. Unfortunately, I have not the final percentages for all countries, but of Australia's total merino clip 3% was represented by 70s and finer; South Africa's figure was 0.2%; New Zealand did not produce any 70s or finer. Of Australia'stotal merino clip 50.8% was in 60/ 64s and liner; the New Zealand figure was 0.3%, while for South Africa the proportion was 18.3%. So far as British countries are concerned, anyway, we have had complete predominance in the production of medium and fine wools. But in the whole of the time that the embargo has been in operation, prices have come down to such an extent that in 1940-41 the fine wool clip - 60/64s and better - represented 53.7% of the total Australian wool clip, while today it represents only 13%. So for years we have been protecting the great Australian fine wools. If we continue on that basis for another 10 years, we will not be growing any of these wools at all. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. As a result of recent decisions by the 2 major organisations representing wool growers,  culminating in the decision by the Australian Wool Industry Conference yesterday agreeing to a single selling authority for wool, and bearing in mind the great difficulty that has been experienced in the past in obtaining the full support of growers for any form of marketing reform, will the Minister consider as a matter of necessity the implementation of this decision of the growers? 
asked the Minister representing the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
When is the investigation into the location and strength of the proposed television stations in western Queensland likely to be completed. 
The television stations authorised for western Queensland areas are among 38 such stations which were authorised last year. Field survey work associated with the Queensland stations has been undertaken but technical planning work is still proceeding. As I have previously indicated, I intend to make a statement, as soon as a firm timetable for the completion of these stations can be arrived at; I have also previously indicated in answer to a question in the House on 19th March 1970, that all of the stations should be installed by 1974. 
Has the Minister for Air seen a report in Queensland's Sunday newspapers that Royal Australian Air Force personnel sold beer to a hotel in Southport? If they did. what action is being taken by the Minister? 
I take pleasure also in supporting the Bill which is before the Senate tonight. This legislation is a milestone in the development of industrial power in Queensland, particularly in that area of central Queensland in which this power station is to be situated. The fact that the Commonwealth is prepared to provide a loan of S80m or, should I say, 80/155ths of the total cost of the project is certainly welcomed by all Queenslanders. Seine people have suggested that the assistance provided by the Commonwealth should be in the form of a grant, but I believe that the provision of it in the form of a loan, wilh interest being charged, is the right way to support development in this area. As a result, individuals who live in a certain area are not getting specific benefits. The money which is repaid will be available to help other needy areas which can be given the same son of assistance. 
One should take into consideration the fact that, it is believed that 60% of the power generated will bc used by the Comalco organisation and chemical industries in the area. I do not think that any honourable senator would like to see the taxpayers of Australia providing a gift to this area of Queensland so that these industries can obtain power at a cheaper rate than anyone else can. I believe that the Government is approaching this matter in the right way. We want this development to take place and we want these industries to come to Australia in order that we can derive export income for Australia, but we also believe that the advantages should not be gained at the expense of other people in the community. I was very pleased to note that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has said that when the time comes and further money is required for the development of other power stations in Queensland or the extension of this power station a sympathetic hearing will be given. J think this is important because great mineral discoveries have been made throughout the length and breadth of Queensland. However, two elements are required to develop our mineral resources fully. They are, as  Senator Gair  has mentioned, water and power. Queensland has adequate . quantities of water and it has the fuel in the form of unlimited quantities of steaming coal to generate the power. 
I anticipate that in the not too distant future the Queensland Government will again be approaching the Commonwealth Government for assistance to extend the power station at Collinsville so that the Greenvale nickel deposits can be processed at Townsville. The State Government has entered into an agreement with the Utah Development Co. concerning the Goonyella coal field, which is not very far from Collinsville. The agreement is in relation to steaming coa!. 1 wish to quote from a document which outlines the advantages which will accrue to Queensland as a result of the agreement, lt slates: 
Cheap steaming coal could become available for Queensland power stations. One provision in the agreement is that the Minister may require the companies to supply to the  Government  any steaming coal mined wilh the coking coal, for use in Stale power stations. The companies arc lo be paid only the cost of extracting and delivering  the  coal less what il would ha»e cost to have sent the coal lo waste. 
In other words, the coal will be stockpiled for next lo nothing. The document  continues: 
In addition, the Government may require the companies lo stockpile  washery  rejects and then supply them for use in power stations. 
This means that we will be able  10  generate very cheap power in other paris of Queensland. I am very keen on decentralisation. Apart from Tasmania. 1 would say that Queensland is the most decentralised Slate in Australia at this time. 
The Australian Country Party is doing a lot towards decentralisation. A lot has been done in the past 13 years. This is just one example. I believe that in the future we will see great development of industrial complexes spread throughout Queensland and well away Iron the major cities. 1 agree with  Senator Gair  that decentralisation is very important from a defence point of view if for no other reason. Decentralisation is also most essential if the Stale is to develop. One of the great problems we have had in Australia arises from the fact thai we have built up great cities and our raw materials have had to be carted hundreds of miles to bc processed or to be sold. This is a complete waste. Ft is necessary to have the population, reasonably close to the raw products and the markets. Queensland is certainly giving a lead in this direction. Honourable senators opposite have said that Comalco will get more benefits out of this proposal than anyone else. They have said thai this project is to be constructed at the expense of the ordinary people of Australia. I know the cost at. the moment of generating power in these areas. I think 1 mentioned in this chamber a few months ago that the cost of generating power in western Queensland is something like 2.6c a unit. The cost of generating electricity from the present power station in the Callide Valley is something over lc per unit, but it is envisaged that from the new power station at Gladstone we will be able to generate power at less than .5c per unit. This power can be transmitted to our central western areas of Queensland which are now producing power at 2.6c per unit and it can be sold to them for about 1.3c per unit. As a result the people of the area will benefit just as much as the big complexes will benefit by having cheaper industrial power. 
It is most important that we do not merely sell our raw materials straight from the mines; we must process them to a stage whereby we can derive the maximum benefit from them. All honourable senators realise that a certain amount of bauxite is worth only so much as bauxite but is worth many times that amount if sold as aluminium. We have to compete with other power stations and with other production units about the world if we want to be able to produce aluminium and sell it at a competitive price. This is why power stations are so important, not only for the development of big industries and industrial complexes which are coming into the area but also for the benefit of people in the surrounding areas. There has been some mention by honourable senators opposite of the Government elected by people of Queensland being not fit to look after the interests of Queensland. In other words, honourable senators opposite suggest that people from other States should have some say in the running of the State of. Queensland because Queenslanders are not fit to do the job. 
I have read the newspaper report also, but I have not had any confirmation of the report that some members of the Queensland Government have received shares. I know that it is a normal process for people to receive preference shares. Whether or not they should have them is another matter. Many people have preference shares offered to them, and they are offered as a normal thing to existing shareholders. I cannot see that this should have a detrimental effect on the running of the power station or that organisations like Comalco should receive special treatment as a result. Ail governments are answerable to the people and any government which gave preferential treatment to a particular company would soon be out of government. Consequently I suggest that we have no worries in this regard. The Queensland Government and the Queensland people have a very sound case for assistance from the Federal Government. I have every confidence in the Queensland Government. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Will he ask the Prime Minister to indicate when agreement is likely to be reached with the Queensland authorities on the appeal by the Queensland Premier to set up a rural reconstruction board? In view of the prolonged nature of the drought in that State and the disastrous financial position facing farmers and graziers, will the Prime Minister consider treating this request as a matter of extreme urgency? 
No-one denies that at the present time primary industries are facing a crisis because of a cost-price squeeze and, in the case of many primary producers in Queensland, a serious drought position. I notice that the matter raised by the Opposition refers to the urgent need for the reconstruction of the rural economy, including a constructive national drought policy. I have not heard one word of the policy or the plan that the Opposition has put forward in regard to drought. The Opposition has just said that it wants to have a drought policy. 
I was not talking about the Minister, I was talking about the matter of public importance raised by the Opposition in which it referred to a drought policy. It contains not one word as to how this policy should be implemented, taking into consideration the fact that the States have the prime respon sibility in drought matters. Obviously there are 2 reasons for not stating a policy. Either the Opposition does not have a plan or it is happy with the way the Government is conducting its drought policy. 
Yes, I am happy with it on a federal basis. We have 10 years of drought in Queensland. I am right in the middle of a drought area so I know what is happening. The individual must be the basis of any effective drought policy because all areas differ. There are different methods of feeding stock in different places. Transport problems come into it. To have any organised Canberra or capital city control over a drought policy would be disastrous. After all the States are most important in any drought policy. They control the land policy, the transport policy and practically everything which is concerned with fodder marketing and so on. My State of Queensland has been the most affected by drought and the Federal Government has done a remarkable job in granting to the Queensland Government everything it has asked for. Over the last 2 or 3 years, Federal assistance amounts to about $32m. In the Budget which was brought down last night provision has been made for a further SI 2m to be granted to Queensland before the normal summer rains arrive. The position will be reviewed after that. 
Members of the Opposition when talking about a drought policy, imply that the Government has done nothing. The most important point is the individual approach to this problem. The Government must provide the machinery for the individual to operate. Important legislation which has come down in the last few years in respect of drought mitigation has provided taxation deductions for the purchase of fodder in the year in which it is purchased and not in the year in which it is used. That is most important for those people in remote areas who cannot economically grow their own fodder. Recently the drought bond scheme has been introduced. In the area in which f live which is arid and prone to drought, with erratic seasons, incomes are erratic and the drought bond scheme is still the greatest help these people have had. They can put money aside in good seasons and not be faced with heavy taxation. They can use that money later in the way they see fit. Maybe there is a market for sheep or cattle somewhere else. They can transport those cattle or sheep and sell them. If there is no market and if the drought is widespread, they might have to feed their stock. This would depend on the time of the year and the situation they are in. They can use that money as they see fit. 
The Federal Government subsidies on transport have been most important to Queensland because of the vast distances involved. The subsidy has enabled people not only to transport their stock to agistment areas many hundreds of miles away and bring them back for a reasonable cost, but also they have been able, where possible, to sell their sheep at markets in New South Wales and other States. Those who feel it is necessary and are in a position to do so have been able to bring back fodder to feed their stock. Once people have suffered drought without an income - as we have in Queensland for years - there has to be some sort of assistance for reconstruction. At the moment the Federal Government is in the process of negotiating with the Queensland Government. Last night the Queensland Premier was here putting forward the final points for a gigantic rescue scheme of reconstruction for the Queensland industry. These are positive things. These are not the things that are bandied around for political reasons by members of the Opposition. It amuses me when members of the Opposition get up and say the Government has done nothing for primary industries. I will read a few figures of what has been done. These are interesting. Because my time is limited I will mention just a few industries. Since 1961-62  for  the wheat industry the Government has provided SI 55m and also a loan of $250m for the 1968-69 crop. For dairying S544m has been provided in subsidies up to June 1969 and another $140m has been provided for loans. If we go to the wool industry we see that in the last Budget $29m per annum was provided for research and promotion, plus the S30m which has already been talked about. 
I wonder how honourable senators opposite can say the Government has done nothing, the inference being, of course, that if they were the government they would do everything. The only way that can be done is to spend many thousands of millions more. How could they go to their supporters in the capital cities and say. 'The Government has done nothing for the farmers. We are going to do so much more.' After all the money has to come from the taxpayers. If honourable senators opposite are going to provide this money it has lo come from somewhere and it is going to come from the taxpayers. Honourable senators opposite say they are concerned for primary industries when it is convenient for them to say so. It is convenient to say it now but I challenge them to come out in the Senate election and say what they are going to do for the primary industries. They should tell us what money they are going to provide. They should say it in the capital cities and tell the people where they will get the money. It has to come from the taxpayers in one way or another. 
You would cancel all our defence contracts. But that is another problem; that is another issue altogether. 1 will return to the drought problem and give a few more figures if some Queensland honourable senators are not satisfied with what the Federal Government has done for the drought situation in Queensland. The Federal Government has given $l6.5m in loans since this drought commenced, $16. 5m for freight rebates and over $8.5m to shires to preserve employment in those towns which are hard hit. In the last allocation nearly $1.5m was given for subsidy on shire rates. This is a considerable sum of money when one takes into account the extra $12m which has been allowed in this Budget. Of course when we get back to the economics of the rural industries, one of the big problems - this is concerned with the wool industry in Queensland - has been the living area concept. Most of the people troubled in Queensland today are those on properties which were cut up and where closer settlement took place during the wool boom periods of the 50s. I think it was a tragedy. 
Will the Minister for Civil Aviation consider restoring one of the airstrips on Horn Island to its wartime length to facilitate the operations of scheduled commercial aircraft? 
I was very pleased to hear that the Opposition has a spokesman on the rural industries. 1 was wondering as the debate proceeded whether we would hear anything from the Opposition about the primary industries. I am very pleased to learn that  Senator Donald  Cameron is quite an expert on the wool industry. Although I could not quite follow what he was getting at, he seemed to have a plan for the reconstruction of the wool industry and a means by which the wool growers could get a just price for their products. As 95 per cent of Australian wool is sold overseas and manufacturers* representatives are at present in Canberra from all parts of the world, perhaps  Senator Donald  Cameron can convince them of what is required. In supporting this Budget, I would like to say that it has been regarded as a holding budget. The time has come to curb inflation, particularly because of the problems of the primary industries at the present moment. Since this Government has been in power a lot of people have been used to increases in pensions and all sorts of handouts which the Government has been able to give because of the political climate it has created. When a halt has to be called and there is a holding budget everyone is a little disappointed. But this is only when one first looks at the situation. I think that when people start to delve into the Budget and really find out what it contains in the main they will agree that it is a good Budget under the conditions that prevail now. 
We have heard a scream about the pensioners. Honourable senators opposite have been talking about the pensioners all the time. They have been referring all along the line to the 50c increase in the pension. At no stage did they indicate the great advance that was made for pensioners in the last Budget. If honourable senators relate the pension to what the pensioners have been getting over the last 20 years they will find that the pensioners of today are certainly a lot better off then they were under the previous government. We may be a little disappointed that they did not receive more but, as I said, this is a holding budget and other sections of the community have to receive benefits. 
Although we have a holding budget I am pleased that we have been able to maintain our defence policy. Of course the Opposition is not interested in defence. We have been able to help primary industries, particularly those in Queensland. I am talking about the wool industry which has been in strife because of drought and low wool prices. Because of the wealth and productivity that this great industry means to this nation it is essential that it should be maintained on a firm productive level. For many years the Opposition has been screaming for this, that and the other, lt has been screaming for reductions in taxes. The Opposition says that the Government did not go far enough in reducing taxes. Honourable senators opposite neglect the fact that in order to hand out money it has to be obtained from somewhere. There is only one place where the money can be obtained and that is from the taxpayer. I believe the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  did a very good job in distributing the money. He collects it here and hands it out there. We must bear in mind the present conditions of the Australian economy. Honourable senators opposite delight in attacking companies. Today Mount lsa Mines Ltd announced a record profit. 
I am making the speech, not  Senator Cavanagh.  He can have a go next time. He does not come from Queensland; so he does not know the position. The fact of the matter is that for 25 years Mount Isa Mines Ltd operated at a loss. Since the mine has been put on an economic basis Mount Isa Mines Ltd has been able to increase its productivity. It has acquired a substantial number of Australian shareholders. 
No, I have not, but that is beside the point. This company is doing something for decentralisation in our State of Queensland, lt has given employment to thousands of people and it has brought millions of dollars into this country over the years. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order! I remind Opposition senators who are interjecting that the senator who has the call is not in the witness box under crossexamination. 
It is all right,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  I know honourable senators opposite do not like to hear these facts, but that is okay with me. But getting back to Mount Isa Mines: All honourable senators opposite want full employment with high wages from these companies but they hate to see the companies make a profit. Unless we have the production of wealth in this country there will be no opportunity to pay high wages and social service benefits. The productivity and wealth of this nation must be maintained. Profits from companies like Mount lsa Mines are being ploughed back into production. The reason for the S54m profit this year was that the company had an expansion programme costing SI 30m. This is giving employment to more Australians and is bringing more money into this country. 
Of course the Opposition does not like this. It wants a peasant community. It does not want to see production and wealth in this nation. It wants to see everyone dragged down to a position where they cannot produce. It is the same old story. If one wants to hand out social service benefits and high wages to the community and maintain the standard of living in this country which compares more than favourably with that of any other country, productive industry must be maintained. Production and wealth must be maintained. They must come first. We are fortunate that over the last 20 years we have had a Liberal-Country Party Government to maintain this climate of production so that industry can afford to pay these wages and provide these amenities. Had the Opposition been in office for that period I hate to think what could have happened. 
I tura now to primary industries. I am very pleased to see that in this Budget the Government has seen fit as a short term measure to increase the allocation to primary industries by $77m. As we all know at the present time primary industries are going through a difficult time. This allocation of $2 15m is only for short term relief. We are looking forward to bigger and more complex schemes of restructuring primary industries and particularly our major primary industry, the wool industry. In this regard we have the single marketing authority which is under consideration by members of the Australian Wool Board and the Department of Primary Industry. I hope it will not be long before this single wool selling authority is in operation in this country. I know that for years the wool growing industry has maintained that the best way to handle the wool clip is by the free flow of wool through the auction system. Many people in the industry believe that this is still the only way to sell wool. I think we all have to agree that if we continue at the present cost level and price level for wool we will not have a wool industry. Something has to be done to make sure that the industry is kept on a reasonable economic basis; and this does not mean just bumping up the price. The industry has to be restructured so that the COSt level can be kept at a reasonable basis. This can be done by amalgamation and by all sorts of handling systems. For instance, today wool is handled 28 times before it leaves the selling centre. If this amount of handling can be cut down we will save considerably. These are the ways in which we have to try to handle the wool industry - not necessarily by bumping up the price. If the price is bumped up too high the way is left open for synthetics to wipe out the industry. It is all very well for honourable senators opposite to say that 45c per lb is the proper price for wool and that it should not be let out of the country for less. After all, in any sale, any clip - certainly my own clip - varies in value from 45c to 100c per lb. How would honourable senators opposite sell at 45c per lb under those circumstances? 
It has to be worked out on the value of the wool and it all has to be assessed. Ninty-five per cent of our wool goes overseas and if a reserve price is placed on the wool and no one from overseas will buy it who will pay the growers for the wool? The growers will be left holding the can. Someone has to foot the bill of S800m for our wool. I cannot envisage the Labor Party agreeing that the Government should pay the wool industry $800m for the wool and then have it on its hands. We must have a practical solution to these problems. 
Earlier tonight  Senator Cavanagh  referred in his speech to the provisions made in the Budget for the erection of telephone lines in rural areas.  Senator Cavanagh  said that the increase in rents for telephones would wipe out any advantage to be gained by people in rural districts through these new provisions regarding telephone line. It is quite obvious that  Senator Cavanagh  has not visited areas in western Queensland. The saving to the people in those outback areas will be considerable. The average cost of installing a telephone line in western Queensland in accordance with the specifications of the 
Postmaster-General's Department is anything up to $800 to $1000 a mile. For example, a person who lives 40 miles off the main line will be saved $9000 - being the cost of the length between 6 and 15 miles from the main line and will be charged only $160 for each further mile. It is not a matter of these people getting some luxury item. People who live 40 or more miles away from a doctor, a dentist and other essential services are entitled to telephonic communications. The savings to these people as a result of this measure will be anything up to $5000 or $6000, which is a considerable amount of money. This saving is certainly greater than all the increases in charges to which  Senator Cavanagh  referred when he mentioned the $8 increase in telephone rents. 
The Opposition is quite vocal tonight in this debate on the Budget. Unfortunately in past years it has been the tradition for elected representatives of Parliament who sit on the Opposition side to be the ones who criticise - and who supposedly constructively criticise - the budget, but on this occasion it has been taken out of their hands and their bosses outside the Parliament have decided that those inside the Parliament on the Opposition side are not capable of convincing the people of Australia that this Budget is of no use. All that we hear in this place are echoes of the vocal rabble outside this Parliament which placed honourable senators opposite on the Opposition benches. I would not mind if the Opposition were to get up in this place and say that it does not approve of these outside actions and that it still believes that the traditional place in which to debate the Budget is this Parliament. In condoning these outside actions, and in some cases members on the Opposition side have assisted - 
This is quite acceptable. To attack Governments is acceptable. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Sir Magnus Cormack)  - Order!  Senator Cavanagh,  earlier this afternoon when you made your speech you were given the respect to which YOU are entitled and 1 ask you to give  Senator Maunsell  the same courtesy which was extended to you. 
I know that this is a pretty raw point. I have not heard one word from honourable senators opposite condemning the actions outside this Parliament relating to what takes place in this chamber. I wonder what would happen should this Opposition ever take over the Treasury bench. If the Opposition now condones this sort of attack on the parliamentary institution would it then feel that any group which is of the opinion that something done by the Government is wrong is entitled to disrupt the operations of this nation? If this is the belief of honourable senators opposite they should stand up in this place now and say whether they agree that  Mr Hawke  has done the right thing. 
Anyway, the impression I have gained is that they have lost their confidence of ever reaching this side of the Senate through the ballot box and will attempt any other means of obtaining that objective. The Australian public will not fall for this sort of persuasion or intimidation. I challenge the Opposition to stand on its merits through the ballot box. If it allows the disruption of public affairs I do not think the public will ever allow the Opposition to take its place in Government. Very little has been said about the S291 m increase that has been given to the States. This is a considerable amount of money but of course, as is usual, the States are claiming that it is not enough. However an increase of $29 lm in one year is an extremely large amount of money particularly when relief in income tax of about $270m is taken into consideration. Of course there have been all sorts of complaints about this but the fact is that every wage earner in this country will be able to retain more of his earnings in his pocket, and that is all that he is interested in. 
You are speaking about the 50c as compared with last year. You should consider the difference over the last 20 years. There is still more money in the pocket of the wage earner. 
He still has this amount of relief. It is a matter of a 10 per cent reduction in his taxation. 
In that case he could not have been paying much tax beforehand. I have not much more to reply to but one matter brought up by the Opposition - and of course everything is thrown into the ring by the Opposition and this is only one of them - was local government. I agree that today local governments do have their problems. However, I have not heard too many solutions from honourable members on the Opposition side which would solve the problems facing local governments. I feel that what has to be done is to ensure that we do not have handouts alone because these local authorities are faced with all sorts of problems in the different areas and they have different cost structures. If handouts are to be made willy-nilly to local government authorities while they have not the responsibility to raise money for themselves we will only get into all sorts of difficulties. This Government can do something for them in terms of interest rates and payroll tax. If money is given them from those sources they will be able to be helped quite considerably. If necessary the Government could subsidise local governments for special purposes - as is done in Queensland - such as sewerage and water reticulation which are required for community living. The handing out of money to local government authorities to be spent willy-nilly on all sorts of grandiose schemes would be irresponsible because the taxpayer still has to pay for it in the end result. 
In the circumstances I feel that this Budget is a very sound Budget and it will ensure for the next 12 months some stability in the running of this nation and the productivity about which I spoke earlier and it will also ensure that every person in this country will have a job and a reasonable standard of living. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army. Now that Cairns has been selected as the site for the naval patrol base, will the Minister for the Army give consideration to establishing the proposed Army marine base in north Queensland so that this area adjacent to our northern neighbours will be effectively patrolled in future? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Tariff Board report which again implied that the protection afforded secondary industry was too high and also because lack of staff had hampered the Board in conducting a systematic review of tariff needs, will the Government give urgent attention to the necessity to bring the Tariff Board up to effective strength so that a more realistic and up to date application of tariffs, in the interests of the nation, can be implemented? 
I take it that the honourable senator is referring to the annual report of the Tariff Board which was put down in this place yesterday and which was put down by the Minister for Trade and Industry in the other place. To ask one at this point of time to express views about the annual report would be completely unreal. It is a very voluminous document. Very properly the Minister for Trade and Industry and the Government will examine the report. It is not possible at this time to make comments about the views expressed in the report of the Tariff Board. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the serious disruption that Ls being caused to meatworks throughout Australia by the withdrawal of licences for exports to the United States of America and in view of the particular effect of such withdrawal on works in northern Australia, which are almost solely dependent on the export market, will the Minister do all he can to ensure that uniform and continuing standards of hygiene requirements are drawn up with the United States authorities? 
 Once again in the Senate primary industries are in the forefront. Obviously the heat is building up as we get closer to the election. Once again the farmers are being made a political football, particularly by members of the Opposition. The pot stirring that has taken place in the last few days is only another example of the Opposition's attempt to make political gain, but it is only adding to the problems of our rural industries. If there is one time when farmers and members of the rural community should get behind their organisations and industry leaders to come to a common agreement on how to tackle these problems, now is the time. I am very pleased to see that the wool industry, which has been so divided over the years, on this occasion has come to an agreement on a marketing authority and has stated that it would agree to the Government introducing  a  marketing scheme which I have no doubt would help the industry through its present problems. When the Opposition speaks about primary industry it draws a red herring across the path. 
It is all right for  Senator Poyser  to interject. Yesterday we heard him speaking about the sugar industry. When speaking about the problems of the sugar industry, he really drew a red herring across the path. 
Of course I have read that speech. We know the problems that we will have to face when Great Britain enters the European Common Market. We know what will happen. That is why  Mr McEwen,  the Queensland Premier and leaders of the sugar industry went overseas last year and negotiated the International Sugar Agreement. 
The honourable senator should talk to the leaders of the sugar industry to see whether they got nowhere. It was agreed by all of them that that was one of the greatest achievements  Mr McEwen  has ever made. When these problems arise, we are prepared for them. We do something about them. For instance, there was the problem with the devaluation of sterling. That will probably be a minor matter, compared with Britain's entry into the Common Market, for industries such as the dairying and sugar industries. But were they helped? Of course they were helped. The losses sustained by those industries as a result of Britain's devaluation were met by this Government to the tune of $29m last year. For this year $21m is set aside. Of course there are members of the Opposition who query this and wonder bow long this will continue. They do not want to see this money paid to the primary industries. 
We all know what the figures are. The Australian consumption of sugar is about 600,000 tons. The export figure is about 1,200,000 tons. 
One-third of our sugar is exported to Great Britain. We are agreed on that, but why start preaching gloom to the industry, beating the drums and telling the industry that the Government has forgotten about it and has thrown it to the wolves. 
That is correct. That is ils philosophy. Its philosophy is to preach doom and despair to people in the industry and to whip them up to such a state, for political purposes, that they oppose even their industry organisations. At this stage I refer to the motion before us, which seeks to set up a royal commission. Quite frankly, the idea is completely impracticable. I think that  Senator Lawrie,  when this matter was debated earlier this year, mentioned the different primary industries. There are hundreds of them. All have diverse problems. It would take years for a royal commission to inquire into all aspects of primary industries. I do not know where it would start or where it would finish. There are other factors associated with the problems of primary industries. Droughts and natura! disasters come into it. One year there is a shortage of certain commodities on the world market. Next year there is a glut. How does the royal commission forecast the future and decide what should be done about a particular industry? 
Honourable senators opposite have forgotten that the main control of our primary industries is vested in the States. The States have complete control of land policies. They decide the living area standards and how much land an individual needs. They have complete control over the transport setup within their borders. They have the taxing authorities which charge rent and land tax. They also have control of local government which, of course, controls rates. 
 I am talking about the things that affect the cost price squeeze, lt is all very well for people to talk about the cost price squeeze. The cost of production in some areas, in some industries and of individuals in industries varies a great deal. Certain people in the wool industry say that they can produce wool for 25c or 26c a !b. Others cannot produce it for 40c a lb. This depends on the economic living areas and these sorts of things which are all decided by State authorities and not by the Federal Government at all. The biggest problem of the wool industry in Queensland today is a result of the wool boom when the Labor Government in that State cut up all the land into small sub-standard peasant areas. This is the big problem. All these people are in trouble today. The Federal Government cannot be blamed for that nor can any of its policies be blamed. 
The Country Party did not get into office until 1957 and the honourable senator knows it. The damage had been done long before then. Because of the farmers' problems today 1 know that the Labor Party thinks it may be able to pick up a few votes at the Senate election next month. But the farmers will read what  Mr Hawke  had to say, not only his contribution last February when he said that the country would be better off without the inefficient small producers, but his statement just recently about the 35-hour week which will really increase the farmers' costs. Every farmer in the country realises this. As a matter of fact, in answer to a question yesterday the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  said that the 35-hour week could cost $2,000m. The amount from the collection of tariffs is only $1 ,800m and we know what effect the tariff policy can have on the cost of production of the rural industries. But the cost of the 35-hour week could wipe out the rural industries in 1 night. It is time that every farmer in this country realised this fact. I do not blame the Labor Party for its attitude. The bosses of the organisation, who are from outside, belong to city interests. The Labor Party is dominated by capital city interests and therefore it is only natural that it is going to look after the people it represents, and they are not the people in the country. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! There is too much interjection. 
I have slated what I believe are some of the dangers of a royal commission and why it would not solve the problems. I believe these problems have to. be resolved by negotiation between the industry, the States and the Commonwealth. A suggestion was made in the first amendment moved by the Opposition. Apparently they have since thrown that out the door and had another idea. But their first suggestion was that an emergency meeting of the Austalian Agricultural Council should be called. 
I was here and I have read about it in Hansard. 
What did the honourable senator want to call it? Maybe 1 am wrong but as I understood it the Opposition wanted an emergency meeting of the Agricultural Council called to discuss the problem. Is that right? 
We are still on the same debate. But that is the Opposition amendment which was moved the same night as the amendment moved by  Senator Drake-Brockman  for the Government. If honourable senators opposite do not now accept their first amendment they do not accept the Government amendment. They have forgotten all about it just as they normally forget about the problems of the primary industries. 1 ask honourable senators to imagine what would happen at the meeting of the Agricultural Council. Of course the Agricultural Council is composed of the State Ministers concerned with agriculture, the Federal Minister for Primary Industry and their advisers. For 4 years, to my knowledge, the Council has been trying to solve the problems of the dairying industry. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  has come forward with a reconstruction plan for the dairying industry to which the Federal Government is prepared to contribute $25m. What has happened? There has still been no agreement with the States. This shows how good the Agricultural Council is in solving this particular problem. At least Western Australia and Queensland have agreed but New South Wales has not. I am not sure whether Victoria has agreed within the last few days. 
It does not look like it, anyway. It could be years before agreement is reached on this problem through the Agricultural Council or a State body. The dairying industry is just 1 industry. How the devil is the Council going to solve all the problems of the hundreds of different primary industries in this country if it cannot solve the problems of one industry in a period of some 4 years? 
Well, as long as the farmers and the country people continue to put their confidence in this Government their problems will be looked after just as they have been looked after in this Budget. Despite all the cries from the Opposition, in this Budget some $70m more was given to primary industries to raise the amount to about $250m. The Labor Party is squealing about that but it made no mention about it at all in its speeches on the Budget. For the first time the wool industry has received assistance in this regard. But that is not all. If one takes into account all the indirect effects of this Budget one finds that primary industry has gained, something like $450m. I was pleased to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Murphy)  say that even if he has to stay here until Christmas he will be happy to pass the wool legislation. 
I can imagine the amendments which the honourable senator will be moving. Anyway, once the Wool Commission comes into being it will require Commonwealth funds to back it up and the amount will be well over $100m. 
All right. The Government, on behalf of the taxpayers, is looking after the primary industries, if that is the way the honourable senator would like me to put it. But that is what this Government is prepared to guarantee to primary industries. Time is getting on and another .honourable senator wishes to speak. I have a lot more I could say on this issue but after listening to the Opposition and noticing the silence of the Opposition after the Leader spoke on this subject 
I do not make arrangements here. All I know is that if the honourable senator wants to talk on these matters we are quite happy to debate the issues with him. 
That was a different issue. We are not debating that issue. I have my opportunity now. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Drake-Brockman  which is designed only to carry out the policy which this Government has been carrying out for 20 years. It is only continuing that policy. I believe that the best method of solving this problem is for the Government to consult with industry leaders and not to establish a whole host of commissions or select committees. The industry leaders know the problems. They live with the problems every day and they are more competent to deal with them. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation, having visited aerodromes in northern Australia recently, would be well aware of the depressed economic conditions prevailing in western Queensland towns as a result of the disastrous drought. As Government assistance will be required to rehabilitate those towns pending the return to full production of the pastoral industry, and as Longreach has been selected as the site for an alternative jet airstrip between Mount Isa and Brisbane, wilt the Minister consider urgently upgrading the priority of this airstrip so that work can be commenced without delay as a positive drought relief measure? 
I support the Bill. I should like to congratulate the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and his staff for the work they have done in preparing this Bill to come before the Senate before the session ends. Because of the critical situation the industry is facing at the moment, it is imperative that the Commission be sent up without delay and that steps be taken to do something about the effects of the present crisis and economic conditions in the wool industry. One might say that this is the most important legislation concerning the great wool industry that has ever come before the national Parliament. For years the industry has been divided on how best to market its product. We have had two referendums, both of which were defeated, for changes in the auction system. I would say without hesitation that it is the price that at present is being received for wool and the financial trouble facing wool growers which have brought about a change of attitude. In other words, the sacred cow of the auction system no longer holds- 
Water, in this case. What is the use of retaining a system of selling if the producers of a product cannot sell at a profit? In recent times we have seen industry organisations and groups of growers throughout the nation banding together, and in most cases they have come up with some sort of national scheme. After taking into consideration all the problems faced not only by growers but also by manufacturers because prices of synthetics are becoming lower and lower, they have agreed that a statutory authority must be set up to market the Australian wool clip. I am talking now of manufacturers mainly of woollen products. They have a problem in competing with the manufacturers of synthetic material. This statutory marketing authority which is proposed by the Government is the bes means of dealing with the problem because it takes into consideration the problems of other sections of the industry - the manufacturers and the buyers. To alter our system of marketing overnight could completely disrupt the whole wool industry and be to its detriment. Of course, it is unnecessary to say how important is this industry to the nation. Perhaps I should remind honourable senators and the public generally that since 1949 the wool industry has returned  to  Australia $ 17,000m in export income. This represents 40 per cent of the total export income earned during that period. 
Since 1948-49. This fact atone will bring home to all of us the importance of this industry and what it has meant to the development of this nation. We as a nation have a responsibility to see that this industry is not only preserved but is also put in a financially sound position. This is important not only in regard to the export income that it could earn but also to ensure that the nation's development and the wealth which the people are enjoying today are al least shared by those who have been responsible for it and that they are not thrown to the wolves. 
The Australian Labor Party. I believe that this Australian Wool Commission can do a great deal, with relatively small cost to the nation, towards bringing this about. Most of the financial requirements of the Commission will be met in the form of loan moneys and not in the form of grants. Of course, it will require considerable amounts of money.  Senator Wilkinson  mentioned earlier that he was pleased to see that no restriction was placed on the Commission's loan in the first year. This is most important because, after all. if the amount were restricted to, say, $100m this could be eaten up within 2 months of selling and then the Commission would be in a position where it could no longer buy in and the whole object of the exercise would be defeated. The eventual cost to the taxpayers of this nation to operate this Commission will be very small in comparison with the overseas export income earned by the wool industry. Many secondary industries in this country are receiving price benefits up to one-third of their gross sale value, ff it costs the nation $200m or $300m to assist this industry, it would still be good business from a national point of view. The $800m that the industry returns can more than repay any assistance given to it. 
As I see it, the Bill does contain a few very important points in regard to the operation of this Commission. One point is the initial unlimited finance, which I mentioned previously. Another factor is the power given to the Commission to dispose of its wool as it sees fit. If it can be shown to be of advantage, it can sell by tender direct to the manufacturers. This lays it clearly on the line to the wool buyers, or merchants, or traders, that unless they are prepared to pay a price for wool that is reasonably close to the price the manufacturing side of the industry is prepared to pay, the auction system which has been operating for so long will be in danger. So it is up to the wool buyers, the merchants and other people who want to retain the auction system without putting anything into it to see that the price paid to the growers is reasonably close to that which it is felt the manufacturers can afford to pay. 
If  Senator Milliner  will just listen, 1 will go on with my speech. The Bill also provides that the Commission has power to manufacture wool up to a certain point, if it so desires. I presume that in the first place it will simply manufacture wool tops. If we enter into this field we can assist the grower in another way. In the past wool manufacturers have preferred to buy their wool as tops rather than in the raw state, and this top making field has been quite lucrative. Because it would involve another operation, extra capital would be required by manufacturers. Under the provisions of the Bill the Commission will be able to keep the top manufacturing section of the industry honest because it will set the price of tops to the manufacturers. Any savings effected in the manufacture of tops will be passed on to the growers. 
Because of the importance of the wool industry to Australia, over the years the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation has done a great deal in developing techniques of manufacturing and processing wool, lt will be very interesting to see the wool commission operating with its own processing plant. The new techniques which have been developed as a result of research can be used immediately in this processing plant. We will not have to follow the old procedure of having to convince manufacturers around the world that these techniques should be introduced. In a lot of cases the manufacturers do not have the necessary capital available to alter their manufacturing processes. Consequently in some cases a long time elapses before these developments actually find their way into the processing plants. All the points that I have raised are ways in which we can help the grower receive a better price without in the long run increasing very much the price to the manufacturer. 
Other very important techniques in the marketing of wool have recently been developed. I refer particularly to core testing and micro-measuring. There are machines that can scientifically assist in the micro-measurement of the yield in a matter of seconds. The micro-measurement of wool is important to the manufacturers because it enables them to determine the type of yarn to be manufactured. Of course they must know the yield to know how much wool is actually in the bale and what percentage of the bale is vegetable faults, moisture and other matter. So it is just a factor in determining price. Wool is handled about 28 times before it reaches the manufacturer. If we could cut out a lot of these handling costs as a result of research once again this would be of benefit to the grower. 
Another important factor is that the Commission, by adopting a floor price and controlling the flow of wool on to the market will be able to bring about a stabilising effect on prices. I think all will agree that price fluctuations associated with wool selling is one of the bugbears from a grower's point of view which has existed over the years. No grower knows exactly what he is going to get for his wool, not even on the day before .sale. To be able to budget over a year's operation - after all it is a business proposition - is an impossibility. With a floor price built in to the various types of wool the price will be set for the grower and the Bow of wool coming on to the market will be controlled. In other words if a lot of I type of wool for which there is no demand at that time is coming on to the market the Commission has the power to withhold that wool until another sale and at the same time compensate the grower. I believe these are very important factors. 
Another important factor as far as the wool industry is concerned is that buyers in the past have not set a division between different types of wool. Their attitude has been: Wc will buy all the wool at a certain price or around about a certain price which will average out. This practice has encouraged the wool industry to produce wools which are really not required by the manufacturing industry and are not in the class which the industry wants. The Japanese have criticised the Australian methods of woolgrowing and the handling of the clip. Of course the Japanese were responsible in the main for bringing this about. They came here and gave the same price for coarse wool and medium wool as they did for the fine wool. This Commission, appraising the wool responsibility, will again be able to tell the industry: 'There will be a premium for better types of wool.' The industry will then see the advantages of growing better types of wool. We will see better wool coming on to the Australian market. This must be of benefit to the whole industry, both the producers and manufacturers. 

 Senator Wilkinson, during the course of his speech, mentioned a few points to which I think I should reply. Like many people in the industry be referred to the cost of production. I think that some of my friends on this side of the chamber by way of interjection asked: 'What is the cost of production? Who knows what it is?' I know in my area of western Queensland some people say that they can produce wool for 25c a lb but others say that they cannot produce it for 40c a lb. To try to relate the price received for wool to the cost of production could be not only difficult but also dangerous. We have seen in the past that once the price of a commodity is related to the cost of production it is not long before all sorts of extraneous matters come into consideration such as land values. State governments which control land policy then say that the industry is a lucrative one, that it has security. Consequently they divide the land and put more people on to it. All these factors contribute to an increase in the cost of production. State transport departments increase rail charges. This happened during and for a long time after the wool boom in Queensland. I presume it happened in other States. These are all factors which come into consideration and you then find that you have a dog chasing its tail. The cost of production is set and the growers say that they cannot produce for that figure - that they have to have a higher price. Before long the product is priced off the market. 
That we should price our product off the market? No, I do not. The first thing we have to do - this is why the Commission was set up - is to see that we obtain the best possible price, considering the ceiling price set by synthetics, which wool manufacturers can afford to pay. That is the first priority. The Commission has to see that the grower obtains the maximum price which the industry can afford to pay. The second thing the Commission has to do is to eliminate, if possible, the selling charges and extra costs. I know one manufacturer who has been in the game a long time. He has been a wool buyer. He maintains that core testing and the developments made in that field will save the woolgrower $15 a bale on handling costs alone. At today's price that is a lot of money and it can represent all of a grower's profit. In the industry we find inefficient units which might be too small in area. We shall have to examine this situation. In certain cases the industry will have to be restructured into bigger units. There may be those in some areas who cannot grow wool profitably because the area is not suited. If the bulk of the producers are still not able to produce at a profit the whole setup will have to be looked at and from then on the only thing to do is to subsidise the industry. After all when 95 per cent of the product is sold overseas one cannot demand from other countries the price which they are going to pay. If people do not want to pay the price they can turn to synthetics. This is a matter we have to watch because every year the demand for fabrics is increasing rapidly. 
Although we sell all our wool the percentage that wool represents of the world fibre market is decreasing fairly rapidly. In war time the percentage was about 16 per cent but now it is down to about 6 per cent and we are selling every pound of wool we can produce. The time will come when wool will be so rare that manufacturers throughout the world will say: 'If the industry is going to demand this high price for wool which represents only 6 per cent of the world apparel fibre we will switch to synthetics. We will gear our manufacturing industry to synthetics.' We have to make sure that the people at the other end of the wool industry, the manufacturers, are considered, too. As far as I am concerned the 2 most important groups are the growers and the manufacturers. We have to make sure that they work in harmony - that the manufacturer receives the type of product he wants in an efficient manner and that the grower receives the best possible price. That is about the only thing we can do in that regard. The rest of the problem has to be handled by subsidy or Government help. 
There has been a complaint not only from the Japanese buyers but also from the Australian Wool Board that the quality of Australian wool has receded in recent years. 
It is not only because of drought. As I said before, at one stage during the late fifties, people were receiving the same price for coarse type wool as they were for fine wools. About 50 per cent more wool can be put on a sheep's back if they are coarse than if they are a fine wool sheep. If that is done there is no doubt about what the growers monetary return is going to be. The coarse wool sheep is the better proposition. In western Queensland a large number of people switched to strong wool sheep and grew good medium to medium-fine wool. In western Queensland in particular a large number of property owners switched to strong wool sheep which grow good medium to medium-fine wool. I believe the clay will come when graziers in that area will, have to switch back to good medium and medium-fine wool. 
The drought in Queensland has played a very important part in the problems of the wool industry. Not only the cost price squeeze, as mentioned before, and the prices received for wool but also the drought have created very grave problems. Yesterday I was pleased to receive a telegram from the  President  of the Central and Northern Graziers Association. This Association covers about two-thirds of the area of the State. Its members own half the sheep and cattle population. Practically the whole of this area has been suffering from drought in recent years. The telegram congratulated the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and thanked the Government for the work they did in introducing the Bill. 
The honourable senator should have read them. 
The industryleaders in Queensland are thankful that the industry' is getting the type of Commission it wants.  Senator O'Byrne  interjected and said that the Government was too late. We have always believed that the interests of the industry should be respected at all times. Until now the majority of the Australian wool industry has not wanted a change in the marketing system.. That situation has changed. The Government has the support of the vast majority of the industry. The Opposition does not like that. We have introduced this Bill. The Opposition of course does not oppose it. 1 would like to see some of the amendments which will be moved at the Committee stage because, if they are the same as those moved in the other place, they are very weak and will not change any part of the main structure of the Bill. Those moved in the other place sought to dot the i's and cross the fs. In most cases they were very weak efforts at that, too. But we will deal with them at the Committee stage. My time has almost expired, I, Too, congratulate the Minister for the work that he has put into this Bill and for the fact that he was able to introduce it before this session finished. It is a most necessary piece of legislation at this time. I support the measure. 
I enter this debate only because of the statements made by  Senator Cant.  As  Senator Lawrie  has said,  Senator Cant  took us on a Cook's tour and went completely outside the ambit of primary industry. The sole purpose of this Bill is to enable the State governments to operate their rural reconstruction boards or similar bodies.  Senator Cant  has completely forgotten that the States have a big say in the prosperity of rural industries. After all, they have complete control over land tenure, land development- 
That relates exactly to the purpose of the Bill. We are enabling the States to operate their rural reconstruction boards. I will not travel all over the world as the honourable senator did. As I have said, the object of the Bill is to enable State governments, which control land policies, living areas and transport - very important parts of efficient primary production - to set up their rural reconstruction boards. Obviously there is no rural reconstruction board in Western Australia otherwise  Senator Cant  might know a little more about this subject, and I point out that there were Labor governments in Western Australia for a long time. The most effective Rural Reconstruction Board in Australia is in New South Wales. It has not received lc of Commonwealth aid since 1931 but it has been operating effectively.  Senator Cant  and some of his colleagues should try to learn the functions of rural reconstruction boards and the effect that they have in the field of primary industry. They have nothing to do with the overall problem of helping primary industry. 
Today the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  announced an investigation as a result of which the Government will present a complete system of help for primary industry. But in Queensland today we have a drought that has lasted for 10 years. The conditions of Queensland's 10-year drought do not apply over the whole of Australia. There is a special set of circumstances in Queensland. It is a matter for the Queensland Government to handle. Whatever is done federally applies to every State. Queensland has a special set of circumstances because of its drought position. All this Bill is designed to do is to enable the Queensland reconstruction board to operate. Despite that,  Senator Cant  has ranged all over the world. He brought China into the matter. I note that he did not mention South Africa or Rhodesia as places to which we could send some wheat. But that is another issue. Let us forget about those things and get down to the Bill. 
The Bill is designed to allow reconstruction boards within the States to operate. 
As  Senator Lawrie  has said, this is something for which we have asked. 1 compliment the Government, the Minister for Primary Industry and the AttorneyGeneral  (Mr Hughes)  in particular on bringing this legislation before the Parliament. Without this legislation it would be very difficult for the Queensland reconstruction board to operate. The Queensland Government has already appointed the  chairman  of the board, and the members will  be  appointed within the next few days. By passing this Bill tonight we will allow the Queensland board to operate without any fear of it being sabotaged.  Senator Cant  wanted to know what the introduction of the 35-hour week would do to primary industry. I suggest to him that instead of asking the Minister for Primary Industry  he  should ask the shadow Minister for Primary Industry, with whom he probably  has  a closer liaison, what he thinks about  Ihe  35-hour week. I support the Bill. 
1 direct my question lo the Minister representing the Minister for the Navy. Is it a fact that only one distributor of marine charts under class B is permitted in each of (he designated centres to sel.1 the charts to the general public? If it is a fact, will the Minister consider allowing other suitable agents to apply to the Department for the right to sell marine charts? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, ls it a fact that State governments, acting on the recommendation of the National Health and Medical Research Council, are enforcing the secure installation of steel safes in pharmacies for the safekeeping of prescribed drugs? ls it also a fact that this procedure has been adopted as one means of combating the trafficking in addictive and dangerous drugs in the community? If so, will the Minister give serious consideration to exempting these safes from the imposition of sales tax? 
The honourable senator asks a question in relation to sales tax exemption of special types of safes which will be required in pharmacies and, indeed, hospitals and like institutions for the security of prescribed and dangerous drugs. For as long as I can remember and, I am sure, for as long as anybody here can remember there has been a requirement for certain classified drugs to be put in a certain area. For instance, a pharmacist has to put them in a cupboard and a hospital has them in a drug cupboard and the key is the responsibility of the matron or of a designated officer such as a medical officer. With the advent of the drug problem there have been a good number of breaking and entering cases where the thieves have broken in for no other purpose than to obtain drugs which are readily saleable. The very fact that the drugs are in a particular area means that when the thieves break into a pharmacy they know where to go. They simply go to the drug cupboard to obtain the drugs. It has been put to me that a more simple and logical solution would be to store the dangerous drugs around the pharmacy area so that the thieves would not be able to go to a concentrated area. However, this is a matter of opinion. 
I understand the requirement is now to put the drugs into special safes and the question is whether there should not be sales tax exemption for these safes. Matters of sales tax exemption are normally dealt with once a year when the Budget is being prepared. I shall refer the matter to the Treasurer. No doubt at the time the question of sales tax exemption is being looked at this matter will be given consideration along with other matters. 
We have heard a remarkable variation of speeches tonight. Unlike the previous occasions when this matter was discussed, the relative merits of the embargo have been dodged neatly by the Opposi tion.. Its only argument is based on its claim that the wishes of the Parliament have been ignored by the Government.  Senator Greenwood  dealt effectively with that argument. I think it is just as well to recount some of the issues which brought about the Government's decision. As  Senator Drake-Brockman.  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry, stated earlier, the ban was introduced in 1929 by proclamation. Neither the Parliament nor the producers were consulted. Subesquent Ministers, irrespective. of political allegiance, had to administer the proclamation as they saw fit. As a result of pressure from the wool industry the Government, on the advice of  Mr Anthony,  the former Minister for Primary Industry, decided on a partial - not a total - lifting of the ban, such decision to be reviewed in 12 months. 
We have heard some arguments tonight about why the ban should be continued. The ban on the export of merino rams was imposed, and was supported by the wool industry over the years, because, as has been mentioned already, Australia has been' producing fine wool. Because of our climatic conditions, stud breeders have been able to produce rams which grow the fine wool. Breeders in other countries have not been able to do so. The object of the ban was to create a monopoly for Australia in fine wools, the argument being that if there was a shortage of fine wools the price would go up and the Australian wool producer and the Australian people generally would get a higher return. That reasoning has fallen down because people have forgotten that falling prices can result not only from over production but also from under production of a product. That is exactly what happened with Australian fine wools. 
Since the war the demand for apparel fibres has risen tremendously and the production of wool has never been able to catch up. That is why at one stage at the end of the war the Australian wool. industry was able to produce .16 per cent of the world's requirements of apparel fibres. Today, however, we are flat out producing 7 per cent or S per cent of the world's requirements. What has happened to the fine wool with which we are particularly concerned tonight - the wool which is produced by our merinos? In  1940m,  the first year for which we have been able to get a complete breakup of the Australian wool clip - that was the first year of operation of the Joint Organisation - 64's and finer, the fine wools of this country, represented 53.7 per cent of the total Australian wool clip. The latest figures which we have been able to obtain - they cover 1968-69 - indicate that 64's and finer represent only 13.7 per cent of the Australian wool clip. A ban which has been in operation for some 40 years and which was imposed with the object of protecting the fine wools of this country in order to put up the price and to ensure that Australia would be able to produce this wool and maintain the wool industry, has had the reverse effect. It has happened because we have not been able to supply the needs of the apparel industry. 

 Senator Byrne made the point very well earlier tonight when he referred to the decline in the prices of fine wool over the years. One would imagine that the shortage of this type of wool would cause the price to rise. As I explained earlier, we have not been able to produce enough fine wool for the apparel industry and it has been forced to turn to synthetics. It is argued that if we send our rams out of this country and improve the quality of wool in other countries we will affect the price we receive for our product. That is just so much rubbish. The problem in the Australian wool industry does not arise because of wool grown by other countries. It arises through competition from synthetics. Until we can produce sufficient high quality wool we will have a problem. Australia produces only 30 per cent of the world's wool needs. From remarks made in this debate one would imagine that we produce all the wool required throughout the world. The only way to save the wool industry through increasing prices is to improve the quality of wool, not only in Australia but throughout the world. 
The other argument put forward by the Opposition stems from the lobby established with it by a section of the industry, and with our semi-opposition. That lobby has been established by people who are worried about competition from overseas countries which seek to buy rams from our stud breeders. That argument completely ignores the rules of supply and demand. 
Over the years the studs in which the Opposition now has so much faith, because it is said they have been able to produce super wool that no-one else can produce, have gone out of production. Of the studs operating about 20 or 30 years ago, only half are left today. Stud breeding is a very involved and costly business. The owners of these studs are finding it is much more profitable, even under existing conditions in the industry, the turn to wool growing rather than stud breeding. 
If the last Sydney sales are a true indication, before very many years the merino breeding section will cease to be a major part of our wool industry. The only other way to protect the stud merino breeding section of the industry is by subsidy, at the expense of the taxpayers, because the returns from rams are not sufficient to make ends meet at present. One stud after another will go out of business. Quite a few studs have gone out of business in the last few years. If buyers in overseas countries can help to keep the industry solvent, what is wrong with selling them rams? As an ordinary flock breeder I am vitally interested in the sale of rams. I can predict what will happen in future if action is not taken in respect of stud breeding. If income from overseas will keep our stud sheep breeding industry solvent, is that not preferable to asking the taxpayers to do so? 
SenatorKeeffe - What will happen if those overseas buyers sell more wool than you? 

 - Senator Keeffe is an expert on rams. The Government has acted under the provisions laid down in 1929 by a Labor Government. On this occasion, unlike then, the Government has consulted the industry. Honourable senators opposite have been very critical of the Australian Wool Industry Conference. The AWIC is made up of employers in the wool industry. If honourable senators opposite do not recognise the AWIC as being representative of the wool -industry of Australia, how the devil can they recognise the Australian Council of Trade Unions as being representative of the unions of this country? 
We might agree about that. It' appears so, anyway. 1 will ignore future interjections by  Senator Keeffe  because he is not contributing to the debate. I turn to consider the suggestion of a plebiscite of wool growers.  Senator Milliner  said tonight that a plebiscite should be conducted. I have noticed on the notice paper an item bearing  Senator Milliner's  name that does not -mention a referendum. 
It is an after thought. 
We will get back to that. I know certain members of the Labor Party' who believe that the Senate should be abolished, lt is amazing that members of the Labor Party have so much to say on this issue and are so churned up about the fact that the vote of the Senate was not taken into consideration. I ask honourable senators opposite whether they have been able to convince members of their Party in another place that this is a serious matter. Since this issue has been before the Parliament oodles of urgency motions have been moved in the other House, but not once has the Labor Party seen fit to raise this matter there. The forms of the other place would have provided an opportunity for the Labor Party to do so. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  -  Senator Maunsell  will continue. As I have just come into the chair it is difficult for me to adjudicate on this point. I ask  Senator Maunsell  to conform with Standing Orders.. 
I am extremely sorry that the Labor Party is a little hurt by what I have had to say. If the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  does not like it, I simply say to him that the Labor Party has had ample, opportunity to debate this matter.  Mr Hawke  used the argument that we have heard in this place. He said that he would be quite happy to lift the ban, provided the issue were debated in the Parliament. Surely he has had every opportunity to" convince members of another place to initiate a debate. I thought he had more influence in the Labor Party.  Mr Hawke  is one of those people who think they can run this country. The real issue before the Senate is not whether rams should be exported - that decision was made constitutionally in a proper place - but whether the elected representatives of the people or the people outside who are not responsible to the community should govern the country. 
Most thinking Australians - certainly most that I have talked to - even if opposed to the ban have applauded the action of the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  in ensuring that the decisions of the elected representatives of the people were carried out. It is a shocking indictment against this country that pressure groups from outside, no matter of what type they may be, should dictate to the elected representatives of the people. The sooner that we in this and the other place recognise this, the sooner we will receive the support of the Australian people. I am completely opposed to the motion that we are debating tonight. We have made our stand on this matter abundantly clear in previous debates. A decision has been taken constitutionally by the Government in the same way as a previous decision on this issue was taken and enforced by a former Labor government. Until such time as the wool industry through the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is its superior body, decides that the ban is having an effect on our wool industry the Government's decision should stand.  As  the matter is to be reviewed every 12 months, I cannot see any danger in the partial embargo which is being enacted at present. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bull)  - Order! Is the honourable senator rising to a point of order? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The honourable senator may not speak a second time in the debate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT -  Order! I call  Senator Prowse,  who was getting to his feet. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT -  Order! I call  Senator Prowse,  whose name appears on my list of speakers. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! The honourable senator may address himself to the point of order only. 
McClelland intimated that he did not wish to speak and, consequently, I believe that should be the end of the debate. I pursue my point of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There is no substance to the point of order. I call  Senator Prowse. 
asked the Minister  representing the Minister for the Navy, upon notice:. 
Is it a fact that only one distributor of marine charts under class B is permitted in each of the designated centres to sell these charts to the general public? If so, willthe Minister give consideration to allowing other suitable agents to make application to the Department for the right to sell these charts? 
I support the 3 Bills we are taking together - the Social Services Bill, the Repatriation Bill and the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Bill. They provide as an interim measure for increases in pensions. These Bills cannot properly be likened to the Bills brought down to implement Budget provisions when the whole gamut of our economic policy is considered. At that time we examine those fields in which to make alterations or to give added assistance. We are' now considering measures to provide interim relief and as such I welcome them. In this debate speeches have ranged all over the field but not much has been said up to date about repatriation benefits. 
I am glad that someone on that side of the chamber will take an interest in ex-servicemen. Probably one of the main' reasons why no honourable senator opposite has taken much interest up to date is because Australian repatriation benefits are considered to be amongst the best in the world. They have been increased time and again since this Government has been in power. Fringe benefits are not mentioned by honourable senators opposite when dealing with pensions or repatriation payments. In some areas of repatriation benefits have been increased since 1949 by over 400 per cent and in other areas by over 600 per cent. 
Yes, I have. The Minister for .Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  dealt with that in his speech to the other House. Someone has to pay for all these benefits. It is all very well for members of the Opposition to say that the Government should spend millions of dollars on this and millions on that. Unfortunately, it is the taxpayers who have to find it. A responsible government will ensure that the taxpayers' money is effectively used in whatever direction it thinks necessary. In a debate such as this honourable senators opposite argue to hand it all out in repatriation benefits or pensions. If tomorrow we are discussing hospitals they will want a few more millions spent in that direction. It is the same old story when we debate education measures. Who is to pay for it? I believe that this Government has shown responsibility in all these fields and that is why it has been in office for over 20 years and will remain there for some time to come. 
There has been a great deal of talk tonight about social service benefits. It is interesting to note that the Opposition has traversed the whole field of social services without taking into consideration the fringe benefits which are available. The Opposition wants to get rid of the means test. We all know that a considerable sum would be involved in doing so. Some of the people who would be entitled to pensions would be millionaires and others would be the people  Senator Georges  mentioned who operate on the stock exchange. It should be remembered that those in most need in this community are the pensioners who, through no fault of their own, do not own their own houses but have to pay rent. 
I am talking about the pensioners at this stage. I do not think that I should go over the whole field of retirement income. The pensioners who are paying rent have to pay out quite a substantial part of their pension to meet this commitment. These people are in extreme difficulty. If the Government had $ 10Om to spare I think it would be better spent on providing accommodation for these people - putting a roof over their heads - rather than on an across the board payment to others in less need. 
The Opposition wants the means test abolished and across the board increases. 
It is a question of abolishing the means test at a time when the nation can afford to do so. It is probable that the means test could be abolished tomorrow if the productivity of this nation were increased. It is, as an honourable senator mentioned earlier, the dissipation of productivity by strikes and other tactics that is responsible more than anything else for the fact that pensioners are not getting the full value from their pensions. Surely the pensioners need security more than anything else. The security of having a roof over their heads and not having to worry about any sickness is the greatest assistance we can give them. Anyway, as I said earlier, these bills are merely interim measures to enable people who have been caught up in inflation to receive special benefits. They do not deal with the whole gamut of things which are debated at Budget time. For this reason I do not think that I should cover the whole field of social services. I support the legislation and congratulate the Government on bringing it down. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Leader of the Government seen reports in today's Press regarding the establishment by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of an air force fighter base in Ceylon at the invitation of the Government of Ceylon? Can the Minister divulge to the Senate any information on this 'matter at this time? 
I could give some information at . two levels. I understand that the Soviet Union is supplying arms and personnel to Ceylon in response to a request from the Government of Ceylon to meet an immediate insurgency threat. Other countries, including the United Kingdom, the United States of America, India and Australia, have also been approached for various kinds of assistance. The Soviet Union and India are the only countries so far which have provided personnel. In the case of the Soviet Union it was because it is unlikely that Ceylon could have provided personnel who were trained to use Soviet equipment. 
At the second level, coming back to the Australian position, I wish to say that since' the middle of March there has been a state of emergency in Ceylon. On 5th April bands of armed insurgents made a series of unco-ordinated attacks on police stations and other government installations. So far the situation has been contained by the Government of Ceylon, which is led by  Mrs Bandaranaike,  but it is still faced with the continuance of the insurgency threat. The Government of Ceylon has sought arms from several countries, lt has inquired about the possibility of obtaining certain items from Australia on a commercial basis - I repeat, on a commercial basis - in particular, rifles and ammunition. Ceylon is a member country of the Commonwealth of Nations and its Government is democratically elected. Assistance to the Government of Ceylon in its present difficulties would be in accordance with 
Australia's long standing friendship with that country. We have informed the Government of Ceylon that the items requested could, with one exception, be made available. However, it is not yet certain whether any firm order will be placed. 
Along with my colleagues on this side of the chamber,  1;  oppose the immediate unconditional recognition of the People's Republic : of .China. The Government's policy on this matter is quite clear. lt . has already been enunciated by the Minister for Works (Senator Wright) and other honourable senators who have participated in the debate. The Government's policy is to work towards the situation where recognition is desired by both sides. 
The - Government, is working towards this end in the hope that it will be. able to enjoy peaceful coexistence with all the nations in the Asian area. In answer to the interjection of  Senator Mulvihill  I would point out that Australia's attitude depends on the attitude from time to time of the People's Republic of China. When the People's Republic of China shows that it can live peacefully alongside its neighbours and become a part of them I have no doubt that many of the Asian nations living alongside the People's Republic of China will recognise it, although they do not do so at present. As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack mentioned, I am nol aware of any great wish by the People's Republic of China to recognise other countries, including Australia. Therefore, why should we rush in and more or less beg the People's Republic of China to accept us? 
 The same situation applies in connection with the recognition of China in the United Nations. Most nations which wanted to join a body such as the United Nations or, for that matter, any organisation would accept the terms and conditions laid down by that organisation for entry, but the People's Republic of China has itself . laid . down what might be called impossible conditions, for entry into, the United Nations, lt wants the exclusion of Taiwan from the United Nations as well as a seat on the Security Council, which would ensure that nol only Taiwan but also any other country that was opposed to the People's Republic of China would not have a seat in the United Nations. There- is no doubt that most nations would have recognised China long ago if she had', been prepared to accept the conditions that every other nation had to accept in order to obtain entry into the United Nations. -One could be excused for wondering whether China really wants to be a member of the United Nations because she has laid down such impossible conditions about her entry. There is also, of course, the fact that she has a lobby in that body at present without having to abide by that body's decisions. 
I have been quite amused by some of the statements that have been made by the Australian Labor Party over  the years, particuarly in recent times, in regard to Taiwan. I exempt  Senator Willesee  from that remark. 1 believe that he made a fairly reasoned speech a little earlier. I understand .that it has always been the policy of the Labor Party in the past to be the champion of the small nations. In fact, when  Dr Evatt  was  President  of the General Assembly of the United Nations he was referred to as the champion of the small nations. Despite this, a number of Opposition senators are prepared to abandon Taiwan and other small nations to support the bigger nations. I wonder whether this new philosophy of one vote one value is creeping into the Labor Party's foreign policy and whether it believes that representation in the United Nations should be a matter of numbers and not nations. 
This morning  Senator Cant  asked a question about the Country ' Party's policy, and particularly about  Mr Anthony's  policy, towards China.  Mr Anthony  has been accused of insulting China. At other times he has been accused of wanting to recognise China. On all occasions he has made much the same statement. The statement is: 'We hope that in time we will reach a stage at which we can recognise China - there will be mutual agreement end mutual acceptance - but at the same time we are not prepared to sink our principles of foreign policy just for trade'. We would not do that for the very good reason that politics have never entered China's trade policy, despite what some members of the Opposition might say. 
The history of our trade with China, particularly in relation to wheat, is a very interesting one. In the last 10 years Australia has sold to China 20.21 million metric tons of wheat. Australia and Canada are the main suppliers of wheat to China. This 20.21 million metric tons represents 40.36 per cent of China's imports of wheat during that period. Canadian exports were 17.24 million metric tons, which represents 37.2 per cent of China's imports. 
This is up to the year 1969-70, which is the last year for which figures are available. 
I will give those figures. Argentinian wheat represents only 9 per cent of China's imports. France sells to China 7.1 per cent of China's imports of wheat. A look at the total wheat exports of these nations shows that in most years 30 per cent of France's total wheat exports have gone to China. That represents about 7 per cent of China's imports. The figure for Canada has varied, but about 17 per cent of her exports have gone to China. Our figure has averaged about 36 per cent. For a nation that has been insulting another, as the Opposition will have us believe, for so many years our trade relations have not been so bad; the Wheat Board has not done a bad job. That emphasises what I said earlier: China will buy her wheat where she can get the best deal and where she can get the type of wheat she wants. The main reason why China is not buying wheat is that she has had a bumper crop of rice. Also, China has relied on income derived from export ing rice to pay for the wheat. This year she has not been able to sell rice because of a surplus of rice in all Asian countries. Until we get the full figures, which will not be released for another few months, we do not know what any other country is selling to China. The only thing that we know is that there has been a very small quantity of wheat, much less than in previous years, sold to China by Canada. 
It is a very small amount. We have not the full figures for this year. In the few minutes that I have remaining I would like to reply to some matters raised by  Senator Cant.  He said that Australia was following the United States of America, by sending a ping-pong team to China and that because a United States ping-pong team went there we had to follow. No teams were invited to China until just recently. Once China agreed to relax her restrictions on teams visiting there, China invited a sporting team to visit there. China is a world leader in pingpong. She wanted to fry her teams out with the teams of other nations. China invited the Americans to play there. Our players were handy and they were invited also. It was not a case of Australia following the United States. The visit by our team was nothing to do with the Government. I am wondering whether  Dr Patterson's  invitation has arrived. I understand that he has been waiting for it for a week or two. 1 think it is quite wrong to draw red herrings across the path, as the Opposition has done during the past few weeks, particularly in respect of wheat, in order to try to get a few more votes. Australian wheat growers have enough common sense to know where their future lies. It lies in the support particularly of this Government and of the wheat stabilisation scheme. They have supported the Wheat Board, which has been able to get markets overseas. This will enable Australia this year to sell about 350 million bushels of wheat on the world market. That will leave much less than 200 million bushels in stock. I have no doubt that,  if  the People's Republic of China had. not had a bumper  grain  crop, a lot of that 200 million bushels would be going there. It  might  still go there before (he year is out. f believe that the Government is adopting a sound approach, by gradually reviewing the position in regard to the People's Republic of China. We do not want to be begging for China's recognition. I have not heard of any great interest on the part of the People's Republic to look for friends and to look for recognition by other people. 1 oppose the motion. 
 I rise to put the record straight  about  a few of the remarks made by  Senator Georges  relating to the crown of thorns starfish on the Great Barrier Reef. There is no doubt that this starfish has done a great deal of damage on the Reef, as it has done for hundreds, perhaps thousands, of years. However, if we look through the report of the committee that inquired into this matter we find numerous references to the damage that was done north of Cairns back in 196S and 1966. Since then we have not heard much about the activities of the starfish up in that area. It has moved south and the main concentration is in the area off Townsville. In company with the Minister in Charge of Tourist Activities  (Senator Wright)  I toured the area earlier this year. We flew over 200 miles of the Reef and spent a few days on inspections out on the Reef. People who have been associated with tourist and other organisations in the Barrier Reef area for many years are more than pleased at the regrowth that has taken place. In fact some of them said that they had never seen the coral looking so well. The statement in the report saying that this is part of the ecology of the Reef certainly is borne out in that area north of Cairns. 
I want also to refer to some of the remarks  Senator Georges  made about the Queensland Government. He said that it is interested only in drilling for oil on the Reef and in exploiting it. The Queensland Government is the only State government that has declared marine parks. It is continuing to do this with the object  of  setting aside the best areas of the Reef in which no exploitation, such as fishing and other activities by private individuals, can take place. We will  be  able to look after the coral and keep  the  crown of thorns starfish and other things out of these marine parks. We are dealing with a strip of reef 1,800 miles long and God knows how many miles wide. It is physically and financially impossible  to  keep the Reef free of all sorts  of  pests. The Queensland Government is doing its job. The only oil drilling ever contemplated by the Queensland Government was  in  river estuaries where the normal tides and prevailing winds would never have allowed oil slicks to go near the  Reef. It  is also interesting to note that nearly all  the  area covered by the Great Barrier Reef, with the exception of  that  portion from Townsville to Innisfail, is in  the  electorates of the honourable members  for  Leichhardt  (Mr Pulton),  Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  and Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  In talking to those gentlemenI have  not  heard much from them about the damage that is being caused. In fact,  the  honourable member for Leichhardt, when  I  have spoken to him, has seemed to  be  most upset about the publicity that has been given to the crown of thorns starfish. The area north of Cairns is his province. I say that in passing in order to put  the  record straight. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH  ANDERSON (New South Wales - Minister for Supply) (3.16) - in reply - In closing the debate I want to make only one quick reference. During the first reading debate  Senator Keeffe  quoted in part from a series of documents in relation to the acquisition of aircraft. The documents from which he quoted in part are already incorporated in Hansard in full. They comprise questions and answers to questions by myself, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Bury)  or the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  I can only add that the conclusions and inferences  Senator Cant  has drawn and the suspicions he has expressed are completely unfounded. 
Question resolved  in  the affirmative. 
Bill read a first  time. 
 I support the introduction of these 2 Bills which will provide assistance for our primary industries in their present state. I appreciate the fact that they are not the be-all and end-all of measures to overcome the problems of primary industry but at least they are a move in the right direction. The history of primary industry has been one of ups and downs as far as profitability is concerned. I have no doubt that that will happen again in the future. If we can assist our producers over their present difficulties in whatever way we can we will be doing something worthwhile, bearing in mind the great contribution that these industries have made to the development of this nation. I appreciate the proposed operation of this legislation. The funds to be operated by the boards are limited and, at this stage of the profitability of the industries, few producers may be able to qualify. 
I believe that in an operation such as this it is better to start off in a responsible manner, and then to see the conditions as the picture becomes clearer, rather than to start off with a blank cheque and have a lot of the funds go down the drain. The Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman),  in his second reading speech, said that the matter will be reviewed from time to time. The amount of money that will be put into the fund and the conditions under which it will operate will be reviewed. I believe that this is a good thing. I shall not go into all the details of the legislation, as there are other speakers to follow.  Senator Prowse  and  Senator Lillico  have gone into the problems of primary industries and also the provisions of the Bill fairly well. 
In my State of Queensland there are certain industries, such as the sugar industry and the beef industry, which are reasonably profitable. Without question the wool industry in Queensland is in dire straits, not only because of the recession in prices but also because of the drought which has been suffered over many yean.  To  try  to  reconstruct the wool industry at present would be very difficult. The key to any reconstruction is the profitability of this industry. In this respect we have to consider ways and means of increasing the returns to growers. The system of marketing wool must be reviewed. Eventually we will have to get some sort of system for acquisition of the wool clip and for marketing it at the least possible cost. After all, we are concerned about the wool from the time it leaves the sheep's back until it reaches the factory. 
I believe that the industry has been carrying a lot of people for too long. There is an avenue here for saving which will greatly assist in the profitability of the wool industry. The industry, under this legislation, will be controlled by boards set up by the- various States. The Commonwealth has to see that the boards that are set up are capable of administering this Act in a reasonable fashion. I believe that the board which has been set up in Queensland is a very competent board, as I hope that boards in the other States will be. It is most essential that the composition of these boards is such that they have not only business acumen but also the interests of the primary producers at heart. 
Tonight I want to speak particularly about the serious drought that has been experienced in western Queensland, because people from other States may not be fully aware of it. This area has been described by the Premier of Queensland as a disaster area. What has happened out there is that, as a result of years of drought, these primary producers who were viable - if I may use what seems to be an 'in' word at the moment - prior to the drought have found the costs involved in maintaining their flocks have put them into debt. In some cases they have been put into considerable debt. Because of wool prices and production being well down, they have not been able to recover any of their expenditure. People who in other generations were able to operate profitably are now in trouble. 
Many of these people will not qualify under the conditions laid down by the Board. It has been said in this place and elsewhere that as you move around the rural areas you notice a growing feeling of anxiety and despair similar to that of the great depression of the 1930s. I can assure honourable senators that that state of affairs has arrived in western Queensland and has been operating for some time. A large area of this nation will die if help is not given quickly. I am speaking not only about the wool producers now, but also about the people in the towns and the business houses who are in trouble. Employees who have lost their employment find that they cannot sell their homes. I think most people would appreciate that employees in rural areas would have most of their assets tied up in their homes. To have to abandon a home and seek employment somewhere else many miles away is not a very pleasant experience. If these people - and I mean all the people because they are all part and parcel of the industry - had contributed nothing to the progress and wealth of this nation the rest of the community might be excused for saying: Well, it is just bad luck'. But the wool industry in Queensland since the war has earned $2,700m in overseas income and at least $ 1,500m of that amount has been earned by this disaster area. 
The Queensland Government has asked for special financial assistance amounting to $10m from the Federal Government. 1 hope that in the not distant future the 2 governments will be able to get together and work out the differences that may exist and the conditions under which this fund is to be administered. The Queensland Government has suggested that the Rural Reconstruction Board through the Loan (Farmers' Debt Adjustment) Act would be the appropriate body to handle this matter. I believe it is a necessity for special funds to be given by the Commonwealth to this area immediately. It is in the interests of the nation that this be done. These people live under conditions that are not altogether easy. Most of them have not got television in their area; some even have not got telephones. With poor communications and road systems many of these people live very lonely lives. They have produced this wealth  for  the nation and all we are asking is that they be put back on their feet and that the towns be kept going. We should keep the people who service this industry where they want to be and where they can be of help. The sum of $10m is merely chicken feed when related to the great wealth that this area has produced and can produce in the future. 
 Yes. As honourable senators will appreciate, when such special requests are made other States also have special requests and it takes time to work out the conditions. All I ask is that this process be speeded up. Action can be taken by both Governments at the moment without even worrying about the terms under which assistance is handed out to the industry or how it will help the producers and the towns. Priorities have been established for government works. A year or two ago Longreach Aerodrome was considered as a site for an alternative jet airport. Maybe this is 7 or 8 years away in priority but it is in the interests of this nation that its priority be advanced so that the money can be spent now when it is needed most. It has to be spent some time, as that is the Government's intention; but if it can be spent now when it can help these towns I believe it should be provided. It will not be in the form of a handout. It will be for specific work, but it will enable that work to be undertaken earlier than it otherwise would be. This argument also applies to beef roads that are not completed, other main roads and public buildings intended for the future. 
I believe the wool industry is one industry that will come back. We have great avenues in which to move. In the past we have been able to carry our handling and marketing costs but we can carry them no longer. I feel that this region can become an economic area once again and that the money that will be expended in helping it to become an economic area will not be money down the drain. This nation cannot afford to let such a large area just disappear. Other honourable senators wish to speak and I do not want to take much time. I support these Bills and I hope they will receive early consideration. I believe the States have their boards set up and that the scheme will be in operation shortly. I hope that in the not distant future we will be able to determine the problems and that these will be ironed out upon consultation between the States and the Federal Government. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry heard a news report that a representative of the wool buyers' association has stated that unless the overseas situation in regard to foreign exchange is normalised the wool sales to be held next week may have to be cancelled? 
Will the Minister representing the Postmaster-General indicate when the cable way for the national television station on Mount Bellenden Ker is likely to be completed? When is it expected that transmission of programmes will commence? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science. In view of the increased interest being shown in all facets of the Great Barrier Reef, including reports from 2 commissions set up by both the Federal and Queensland Governments, and the obvious need for research into this area, will the Minister inform the Senate what progress has been made in establishing the Australian Institute of Marine Science near Townsville since it was set up by an Act of this Parliament assented to on 17th June 1970? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry seen an article in this morning's Press by  Mr Vines  to the effect that a new knitting machine could pose another threat to the future of the wool industry? Has the Minister any information to give to the Senate? 
First of all, may I congratulate my fellow Queenslander  Senator McAuliffe  on his maiden speech. Last night we heard  Senator Negus  from Western Australia also make his maiden speech. I am quite sure that we will hear more from them on the particular subjects which they have brought before this chamber. 
I think honourable senators will agree that all Budgets receive criticism in one way or another. I would say that the little criticism that this Budget has received is indicative of acceptance by the general public of the fact that at least it has endeavoured to meet the problems of the nation and indicative of satisfaction with the Government's handling of the nation's financial affairs at this time. Although we have an inflationary trend in our economy this Budget has been able to increase social services and repatriation benefits which increases, of course, are so necessary to those people who do not have the means or opportunities to cope with rising costs. The fact that there is an increase of $2 17m this year in the welfare fund, bringing it up to a total of $ 1,694m, gives some indication of the interest that this Government has taken in the social welfare of the nation. 
A new item contained in the Budget provides assistance by way of a deficiency payment to the wool industry. This matter has received a great deal of criticism from different sections of the community and, to some extent, from members of the Opposition. That the nation should have to help an industry as great as the wool industry is something that we would hope would not happen, but because of the position of this industry this assistance is absolutely necessary at this stage in order to allow the wool industry to remain a force within the community. The wool industry is able to adapt itself to the temporary problems it is experiencing, but the only way that this can be done is by means of a guaranteed price to the wool grower for his wool. This assistance will help not only the wool grower but also all the people who are dependent on the industry. It is particularly important to the country towns. This is a social as well as a financial problem for the wool industry. 
If we look at this industry from a national point of view we find that since the war it has brought into this country a total of $25,000m in overseas funds. There is no doubt that this terrific sum of money has gone a long way towards assisting in the development of this nation, creating the job opportunities and the standard of living that we in this country are able to enjoy. After all, many industries which are owned by overseas interests have set themselves up here. The profits are repatriated to the country of origin of the company and the capital itself does not belong to us. But one can say that the greater part of the Australian wool industry is owned by Australians. The money that it receives from overseas for exports remains in Australia. 
History has proven that the great nations of the world always have been great trading nations. I refer to Great Britain in her heyday, and also the United 
States of America. The fact that Australia which has only a small population relative to other nations ranks as the twelfth or thirteenth trading nation in the world is indicative of the prosperity that we enjoy. The more we trade and export the goods that we produce the greater will be our standard of living. The whole nation will benefit as a result of what we can export, and our trading relations will improve also. Because the wool industry plays such a large part in the economy of this great nation - in some years over 50 per cent of our total export earnings came from wool - it is imperative that we look after it so that it may play a great part in the development of the nation in the future. At the moment the wool industry is earning revenue to the extent of $800m a year. Upon reorganising the industry there is little doubt that we will be able to maintain this figure. 
There are other reasons why we should assist the wool industry. Wool growers today are diversifying into other primary industries. If too many wool growers go over to the grain industry or the meat industry, for example, we could reach the stage where these industries are over-producing. Therefore by assisting the wool industry and trying to deter wool growers from diversifying we will be assisting the other primary industries. The Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  in his speech on the Budget last night attacked this scheme and said that the big wool growers as well as the small wool growers would receive a subsidy. Of course, the fact of the matter is that most of the big wool growers are the people who are most in trouble. Although they grow most of the wool, they are situated in the arid areas where the rainfall is very erratic. Their transport costs are extremely high. 
Wool is grown in areas which can produce very little else, with the possible exception of beef cattle, so consequently if we allow this country to disappear as a wool growing country we cannot use it for anything else. The people who are really in trouble are those in the western districts of New South Wales, the western areas of Queensland and, I imagine, most of the north of South Australia and Western Australia. Most of these areas grow merino wool. In good seasons they can grow high quality merino wool and if we are to maintain the wool industry in this country the retention of high quality wool is imperative. So I think therefore that to try to put them through a drafting gate is completely silly because in most cases, as I said earlier, it is the bigger wool growers in the nation who are in the most trouble at the moment. 
There are other items in this Budget which I feel should be referred to. I believe it is most unfortunate that increases in postal and telephone charges have been made. I appreciate that we cannot sustain losses in these areas to any great extent but I feel that a great deal could be done to improve efficiency within the PostmasterGeneral's Department. These over the board increases of some 18 per cent in telephone charges, for instance, will certainly weigh heavily against people in country areas, particularly those in outback areas where all telephone calls are trunk line calls. An 18 per cent increase will place an extra burden on these people. I hope that, if the deficiency in the Port Office is to be made up by increased charges, there will be some compensation from improved services, particularly in those areas where telephonic communications are sadly lacking. I refer particularly to the installation of new telephones. There are a number of areas in the outback with no communications whatsoever and I have been informed that it will be 5 to 8 years before some people there can expect to get a telephone. I think that in this modern day and age when in most of our city areas we live in affluence, telephonic communication for people is necessary, especially to meet a need in accident cases or when people require medical attention. I believe that this is one avenue in which the Post Office can certainly speed up its services. 
This Budget aims at the general control of inflation and this is a necessity if we are to have a stable economy and if we hope to have our rural industries play their part in maintaining the export earnings of this nation as they have in the past. Although there has been a tightening up of departmental expenditure by the Government on this occasion - we have seen a fairly big cut back in the expenditure of a lot of the departments  -  I believe that other measures will have to be taken to ensure that this inflation is stopped. I am quite sure that the general public today will be behind the Government in any measures it takes to try to curb inflation. People have had enough of this business of the dog chasing its tail and I am quite sure that measures that may not have been accepted some years ago will be accepted now, provided they are not too drastic and do not affect certain sections of the community at the expense of others. They have to be felt through the whole community and then I believe the public will accept them. This is absolutely necessary if we are to remain stable and not reach the stage where we could be in the same strife as some of the European countries and the United States are in at the moment. I do not think that will benefit anyone. I hope that these measures will be continued and that there will be a tightening up of the economy so we will contain this inflationary tendency. 
As we go through the Budget papers and the Budget Speech we see an increase in expenditure in nearly all directions, especially for those items that the public feels are necessary such as social services, education, external aid, the advancement of the Aboriginal community and retirement pensions and allowances for superannuitants and ex-servicemen. I feel therefore that the measures taken to obtain more revenue such as increases in company tax and personal income tax - although most of us may not be happy with it we would agree that it is spread over the whole community and we are all in the same boat - are a welcome way of collecting the extra revenue. I feel that this Budget, provided it carries on with the anti-inflationary measures that are envisaged here, could be a good budget for the nation and I have pleasure in supporting it. 
Has the Minister for Health seen a statement by  Dr Smithurst,  Senior Lecturer in Preventive Medicine at the Herston Medical School in Brisbane and a former director of Army health, that jet travel may facilitate the introduction of tropical diseases into Australia? Would the Minister inform the Senate whether the Department of Health shares  Dr  Smithurst's  view that a disease called malignant malaria may not be diagnosed by many doctors because they are unaware of the symptoms? Does the Department agree with  Dr  Smithurst  that if this disease is not detected the chances are that 40 to 50 per cent of patients may die? 
Yes, my attention was drawn to the statement by  Dr Smithurst.  1 understand that he is referring to malaria caused by the organism Plasmodium falciparum which may sometimes be resistant to treatment with drugs normally used in the initial treatment of malaria. Doctors will be aware of the symptoms of the disease, but it is possible that in areas where the disease is not usually found the occurrence of a case of malaria might be unexpected and might thus be overlooked. The National Health and Medical Research Council in 1967, 1968 and 1970 made recommendations concerning malaria. The honourable senator also asked whether the Department agreed on the point he raised in his third question. I would say that if the disease was not diagnosed and treated the death rate could be as high as 50 per cent. 
I would like to take this opportunity to compliment the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  on the increases proposed in the Repatriation Bill (No. 2). I believe that this Government has had a very fine record since 1949 in its care of exservicemen. Ministers for Repatriation, including  Sir Walter  Cooper, who was the Minister for Repatriation in 1949, have done a fine job. Under each of these Ministers the system has been reviewed and continually improved. Of course, in a field such as this everyone cannot be satisfied. We have received complaints from certain people that the benefits are not sufficient. We have received complaints that some who are not eligible should be eligible for repatriation benefits. Also we have had complaints from those who are not eligible because they have not served in a theatre of war that we are a little too free and easy with the taxpayers' money. So we cannot win all the time. But I think in the main that it will be found that the record of this Government in the field of repatriation has been a very fine one. 
The Opposition, of course, tries to make political propaganda out of pensions, whether they be war service pensions, age pensions or widow pensions. The Opposition is always free to spend the taxpayers' money and hand it around like a man with no arms. 
That is something which is a national asset and which has brought untold millions of dollars into this country over the years and has contributed to its prosperity. Wool is a national asset. 
There are lots of ex-servicemen on this side of the chamber, and elsewhere. I believe that we have given to the ex-servicemen a fair share of the nation's wealth. It is all very well to compare their rates of benefit with the minimum wage. No consideration is given to the extra responsibilities that apply to those who are working. They have to meet transport costs to and from work every day, to which the recipient of a full pension is not committed. In the case of a TPI pensioner, as  Senator Poyser  well knows, the pension is not subject to taxation. If we take the amount of the TPI pension together with all the fringe benefits and then deduct taxation, we find that rather than receiving less than the minimum wage in each of the States the recipient of the TPI pension is receiving quite en amount more. 
If you include all the associated fringe benefits you will find that that is so. A lot of recipients of repatriation benefits are entitled to other benefits such as social service benefits. This Budget has provided S380m for repatriation alone. In a nation of this size this is quite a considerable amount. As the prosperity of the nation increases, and having in mind the inroads of inflation, we must continually look at the interests of people in receipt of repatriation benefits. The Government has set up a commission which has been asked for by the Returned Services League to inquire into all aspects of the repatriation system. 
I said that the Government has agreed to set up a commission. Whether the  chairman  has been appointed or not does not matter. The fact is that the Government has agreed to this commission and that is the important part. 
The fact is that the Government has agreed to look into all aspects of the repatriation system in the way requested by the Returned Servicemens League and has not accepted the suggestion by the Australian Labor Party that the matter should be investigated by either a Senate select committee or a committee of both Houses. I feel that this Government can be proud of its operations in the field of repatriation. It has nothing to be ashamed of. The Opposition has not put forward any suggestion other than that money should be spent here, there and everywhere, not only on repatriation but on everything else that it would be prepared to spend money on. There would be very little left for the taxpayer to take home and there would be very little prosperity in this nation if all the money that the Opposition suggests should be spent was spent. In the whole field of repatriation the Government has done a good job and will continue to do a good job. I reject the Opposition's amendment. I compliment the Minister and support the Bill. 
 We are discussing legislation to amend the National Service Act. The main amendment is to reduce the time of service for national service trainees from 24 months to 1.8 months. Those of us who are interested in the nation's defence may have some misgivings about the fact that a reduction of about 4,000 personnel in our armed forces will result. The present Budget contains an increased vote for defence at a time when most departments have had their appropriations reduced. If this means that our national defence is nol to be cut down in any way by the reduction of national service training, those of us with misgivings may find that they are unjustified. In studying the best way to reduce our armed forces, shortening the length of national- service training from 2 years to 18 months seems to be the soundest method that could be devised. It seems prefereable to reducing the numbers of the intake. It is true that the basis of any national defence is the volunteer system. We must retain the process of having volunteers for our armed forces. 
I will deal with that. To rely on volunteers alone would be completely stupid and we would fail them, as  Senator Carrick  pointed out, if we did not ensure that the numbers in the forces were maintained. We can maintain the numbers of trained personnel, and this has been proved in Australia and in most other countries that have had to face conflicts. Australians have not had to face an aggressor, except those of us who live in northern Australia. From what he said a short time ago it is obvious that  Senator Cavanagh  was not in Darwin or Townsville when they were bombed and when there was a real threat to Australia. He was one of the people who was south of the Brisbane line. 
No Brisbane line? There certainly was a Brisbane line when General MacArthur came to Australia. Let us make no mistake about that. I have said that the basis of our defence forces should be volunteers. National service is necessary to ensure not only that the number of trained personnel in our armed forces is maintained at a high level but also that in case of emergency we have sufficient reserves to permit rapid mobilisation. Another interesting point is that many national servicemen have chosen the Army as a career after having spent some time in it. So in addition to providing insurance for our permanent forces, national service is a very important recruiting ground. When the inquiries currently being conducted into pay and conditions and into retirement benefits available to persons in the Services are concluded, we may see a considerable number of young people volunteering for the permanent forces. If that happens the demand for national servicemen will not be as great as it is now. 
Honourable senators opposite have talked abour dirty wars. It seems to me that according to the Opposition, anyone who chooses to resist Communist aggression or infiltration is involved in a dirty war. That is an amazing attitude for the Opposition to adopt. 
Every time this aspect is raised we hear the cries from the Opposition side. Let us consider the situation which applied in 1964 or 1965 when national service was introduced in Australia and our forces first went to Vietnam. There was Communist aggression in South Vietnam and in the adjoining states of Laos and Cambodia. Indonesia which is very close to us was on the brink of going Communist. The Chinese were being most aggressive and we need only recall China's activities in India and Tibet. 
I mention Czechoslovakia as well. This Government, acting in the interests of the Australian people, said: 'This is contrary to the Austraiian way of life. This represents a threat to Australia. We must do something about it'. Now listen to the cries of Opposition senators. The Opposition resisted the sending of national servicemen to Vietnam. In fact it resisted the sending of any of our armed forces to Vietnam. It is still doing so. I feel sure that because of our actions in Vietnam the situation in the South West Pacific and in Asia hay changed materially. Our situation today is much better than it was then. Some Opposition senators haveadmitted that what we did was necessary then but is not necessary now. To that statement I reply that we must always be vigilant when our defence is involved. If it was necessary then and we achieved something then, I believe that it is just as necessary now. 
The attitude of the Australian people to the Government's actions is of interest. According to a  recent  Gallup poll 69 per cent of all Australians interviewed are in favour of national service, and 59 per cent of the 20-year-olds who are liable for national service believe that they have the right to serve in the  interests of Australia. They accept national service as a necessary step in Australia's defence. It is obvious from those figures that our friends of the Opposition are again on the way out. A further interesting point elicited by the poll is that a clear majority of Labor voters were in favour of national service because, to use a word that Labor people often use, they do not believe in scabs. The Opposition believes in compulsory unionism and everything else that is compulsory except compulsory service in the nation's defence. 
We have heard that story before. When national defence is concerned the Opposition's policy is this: Hands off the Communists whether they be from Russia, China or anywhere else because they do not represent a threat to us. That is a matter of opinion. What the Communists have done in Tibet, Czechoslovakia and Hungary is not in accordance with our democratic way of life. In fact it represents a threat to our democratic way of life. However, the Opposition claims that there is no threat. 
Of course,  Senator Keeffe  does not represent a threat to anyone, certainly not to the Government parties as was evidenced at the last Senate election. 
And we did very well with him, loo. I am a firm believer in national service as an insurance for our armed forces and for our general defence.  Senator Carrick  last night and again today put up a very good case for national service in the defence of this nation. It has been necessary in the defence of other nations which have had to face the threat of aggression in the past. I think we all appreciate the fact that modern techniques in warfare have given rise to situations which did not exist in the First World War or the Second World War. They have placed us in a position where we may have to fight alone. In that event we must make sure that at least we have friends close to us who will come to our assistance. Of course, it goes without saying that if they are attacked we will go to their assistance. I believe we have done that. 
The Australian nation must be satisfied with what has been achieved since we introduced national service and since we sent our forces to Vietnam if only for the reason that the situation today is so much better than it was then. That in itself justifies our actions. It is in the interests of this nation to ensure that that situation continues into the future. We will maintain a defence force that can meet most emergencies. In the event of a conflict we will be able to mobilise reasonably trained men in a very short time and be able to meet any situation in a very short time. 
I support the Bill. As I said earlier 1 would not like to have seen the forces reduced but I am quite sure that this Government, acting in the interests of the people, will make sure that the defence of this country will be maintained and that our friends in the Pacific and Asian areas will be able to count on us as a firm and sound ally. 
Is the Minister for Works aware that recently 2 large earthquakes were reported in the Solomon Sea area, between New Britain and Bougainville? Will the Minister inform the Senate of the precautions taken by his Department in the design and construction of buildings in earthquake areas? 
We are dealing today with what is probably one of the most important pieces of legislation to come under the consideration of this chamber. It deals with Australia's greatest industry, the wool industry which over the years has contributed greatly to the progress and welfare of this nation. In fact, as I have mentioned here before, this industry has brought into this country an amount of $25.O00m since the war by way of foreign exchange. Over the last 2 or 3 years the wool industry has faced difficulties in disposing of its product at a reasonable price. This has been brought about by a number of factors, one of which has been the problems in the synthetic industry. The price war that has been carried on in that industry has affected the sale of wool. Accordingly, there is a need for a complete reorganisation and rethinking about how we should market and control our industry. 
There is also a need to see to the problems of people who are involved in this industry - not only the producers but also those who work on properties associated with the industry, in the marketing of wool and so forth, who could number some or.e million Australians. We have to see also to the problems of many country towns that are completely dependent on the wool industry for their survival. It is necessary that we give them breathing space. Because all these people are involved in an industry that has been responsible for so much of the wealth and progress of this nation there is a responsibility on the nation to do something for them in these times. Therefore we welcome this legislation, particularly at the present time when wool prices have reached an all time low and having regard to the value of our dollar. In recent months the world monetary crisis has been responsible for creating an even worse position in the wool industry. Therefore this legislation has come at the right time. 
I do not intend to go into all of the ramifications of this matter because time will not permit me to do so, but there are 2 or 3 things which I would like to mention because I think it is necessary to do so. The first matter is that the grower organisations over recent months seem to have been lulled into either a false sense of security or one of stunned silence. It is completely necessary that the grower organisations get together and work out long before the next Budget is brought down some sort of marketing arrangement which is acceptable to the industry and which is practicable to implement. I stress that it must be done urgently. It is no good waiting until after the next Budget is brought down in the hope that the taxpayers of this country will get them out of trouble because it may be that assistance will not be forthcoming. I urge the grower organisations to get together to endeavour to come up with some sort of marketing system. In this modern day and age the wool industry must have a marketing system which is completely controlled and not be in the position in which it finds itself at the moment. 
It does not cut across my ideas, the ideas of the Australian Wheat Board or the ideas of Australian sugar and a few other organisations which have successfully marketed our various products. After all, we have 105,000 wool growers in this country all of whom have different ideas and all of whom act as separate sellers. We are competing against the Du Pont organisation which has one man in control as managing director. The same situation applies to Courtaulds. In this modern day and age we cannot afford to have 105,000 sellers of the one product. Therefore whether it be a company managed in the same way as the Du Pont organisation or Courtaulds, or whether it be an organisation of wool growers, we must have some organisation that can speak with one voice. This is why we need a selling authority. We have advocated to our grower organisations the setting up of an acquisition scheme, and most of them support that proposition. In Queensland, I believe in New South Wales, and I understand even in Western Australia there has been great support for an acquisition scheme, but nobody seems to be able to agree on how this acquisition scheme should operate. All the different grower organisations are coming up with different ideas. We want then to get together and come up with a scheme which ;s acceptable to the growers and which can be implemented. 
We will get it. We got agreement on this last scheme. When an industry gets into trouble it is amazing how people are drawn together. Such a scheme should have been implemented when the industry was profitable, but of course at that time agreement could not be reached. I feel that these organisations have to get together and do something about it. 
Another matter which worries me - it was also referred to by  Senator Sim  - is the fact that some wool broking firms in this country are at present bent on the policy of getting out of the industry as fast as they can. 1 agree that the deficiency payments should be handled by suitable wool broking firms because it would be a very clumsy operation indeed if the amount of assistance each individual was to receive had to be worked out and then handed over to him personally. I also believe it is necessary for the deficiency payments to be handled by the brokers and bankers in order to maintain the confidence of that section of the wool industry which is providing financial assistance to the growers. There are lots of inefficient operators in the wool industry who have obtained finance from brokers and bankers. Tt would be completely wrong if the person or organisation who had a mortgage over the wool clip of those persons were not able to receive, in the form of a repayment of part of that mortgage some of the money which is handed to those growers under this scheme. We had the experience last year of some people using this money for other means instead of meeting their obligations to their bankers. Tt does not instil much confidence into the system if this sort of thing happens. I know it has happened with only a few people, but it has happened. 
Most brokers will no doubt stand up to their obligations as they are interested in the future of the industry, but some will not. I know of one wool broking firm which has been the subject of a take-over bid. Its operations in Queensland at the moment leave a lot to be desired. There is no doubt that it is aiming to get out of the wool industry as quickly as possible, despite the fact that over many years, particularly during the wool boom of the 1950s, it was able to make quite large profits and has been able to operate very successfully in the wool industry. At a time when the industry needs it most it is trying to opt out. 
I request the grower organisations in Queensland and elsewhere to bring to my attention any cases of undue pressure by wool broking firms, particularly in regard to the deficiency payments scheme. I realise that the contracts which may be drawn up in regard to wool sold at auction are none of my business, but it is the taxpayer's money which is meeting these deficiency payments. I do believe that the people who arc owed money by the wool growers have at least some interest in this matter. I just draw this matter to the attention of the Minister. I hope that the Government will walch it. I understand that the Wool Selling Brokers Association has given an assurance that it will do the right thing, but I want to make quite sure that other organisations do the right thing, too. Because of the severe drought conditions which have existed for 10 years in Queensland some people who have been efficient and successful at other times have found themselves in a difficult position. No doubt they will be able to get themselves out of trouble within a reasonable period of time when good seasons come again. But these people are being unduly pressured at the moment. 
I turn now to the proposal which has been put forward by the Australian Labor Party. Some crossfire has been going on between myself and  Senator Cant  and  Senator Wilkinson  on this matter. I oppose the first proposition put forward by the Australian Labor Party because, first of all, it involves the application of a means test. I would not like to be the person putting the claims through the drafting gate. We had a bitter experience in this regard last year. Anomalies will always occur. Another question is: Who is going to decide who is efficient and who is in need? 
But how would one put them through the drafting gate? How does one decide who is needy and who is not? Will it be because of their financial set-up? The Opposition has not told us about that aspect. It has just said that if growers are in need assistance will be given. I presume that the people who are financially embarrassed will get it. But they could be quite inefficient in their operations. Another thing about which one always has to be concerned when one is handing out subsidies is whether one should subsidise those people who are growing wool in marginal areas. When the wool boom came along in 1950 lots of areas which would be considered rough cattle country were converted to sheep raising. As the prosperity of the wool industry has gradually gone down, these areas have been greatly affected. Some of them cannot produce wool for 30c or 40c per lb because of the nature of the country and the distance the wool has to be transported. I believe it would be wrong if, just because of the application of a means test, they were found to be in need and v/ere allowed to perpetuate the production of wool in marginal areas. 
 The honourable senator knows what happens to some things that go into a budget. They are not always applicable for one year. Sometimes they are applicable for a number of years, lt all depends on what are the requirements. If the position is bad this time next year the Government will have to have another look at the matter. The honourable senator knows as well as I do that it will again have to look at it.  Senator Cant  had a lot to say about the Australian Wool Commission, which he regarded as a disaster. 
 I would like to know what prices the wool growers would be receiving now if the Wool Commission had not been operating in the last three or four months. 1 think wool prices would have been clown at least 30 per cent or 40 per cent on what they are now. Of course, the taxpayers of this nation would have had to foot the bill for the difference. At the moment wool is being held by the Wool Commission. The information I have is that world stocks of wool now are no greater than they were last year. The difference is that we are holding a lot of this stock in Australia. The Wool Commission is holding it at the moment instead of the manufacturers overseas buying it at completely reduced prices - at give-away prices for which the taxpayers of Australia would have had to foot the bill - and holding it. We know that the monetary situation overseas and the uncertainty about What is going on between, in particular, Japan and the United States has been responsible for the depreciation in the price of wool. But as this matter is gradually clarifying itself one can see that the wool market is moving towards the benefit of the seller. It is quite obvious that with more stability in the monetary set-up there will be an improvement in wool prices, which will more than justify the Wool Commission buying in.  Senator Cant  was completely wrong when he said that only inferior types of wool have been purchased by the Commission. I think most people appreciate that the better types of wool are being bought by the Commission. 
No, he did not. 
He said only the inferior types - the ones that could not be sold - were being bought by the Commission. He said that the Commission would dump inferior types of wool on the market in the future and thereby further depress the market.  Senator Cant  set out to rubbish the Government. He complained about the Commonwealth Government not doing anything about transport in Western Australia. He said that iron ore can be transported on a certain railway line for a certain price but that the price of transporting wool is terrific. I have always thought that the railway system in Western Australia is owned by the State Government and I was under the impression that the present State Government is a Labor government. I suggest that  Senator Cant  direct his attention to his own brand of government in Western Australia in an attempt to see that the transport costs of wool growers in that State are reduced. 
The Labor Government has had plenty of time in which to do something about the situation in Western Australia. Although  Senator Cant  complains to the Federal Government about transport costs, there is no doubt that his complaint should be directed to his own State Government. The Federal Government does not control transport costs in Western Australia. 
I have explained already, in relation to part (2) of the amendment, that we have been advocating an acquisition scheme for wool for some time. I have been doing so in this place for at least 12 months, and probably for longer than  that.  As I have mentioned before, all we want is a scheme that is acceptable. So, in part (2) (a) of the amendment the Opposition is merely following our suggestion. Pan (2)  (b)  proposes the implementation of a progressive reconstruction and rehabilitation programme. Are honourable senators opposite not aware of what is going on in the States today? Do they not know of the agreement between the Commonwealth and the States with regard to rehabilitation, reconstruction and farm build-up? Legislation has been implemented over the past 2 or 3 years in this place and in  the  States with respect to these matters and these things have been happening. Obviously Western Australian senators opposite, who  seem  to bc the Opposition's main spokesmen on the Bill, are not aware of what is being done in this regard. As  our time  is limited, 1 state merely that 1 support the Bill and that 1 congratulate the Government on bringing it in. 1 add that if it had not been for this measure at this time 1 would hate  lo  think what would have happened to the Australian wool industry. 
Yes. This kind of rubbishing of the people who are trying to attract development to northern Australia is typical of the Opposition. It will rubbish anybody who tries to do something constructive. Apparently to make a profit is a great crime. The Opposition does not want to have anything to do with schemes that fail, but if a scheme is a success, if something is discovered and if it is a going concern, the Opposition wants to be in on it. 
Maybe we have. Prior to  Senator Byrne  coming into the chamber I was mentioning that most of the American and overseas investors in northern Queensland and the Northern Territory arc individuals and not companies, and they are prepared to live there. 

 Senator KEEFFE- What about  Sir William  Gunn's companies? 
The honourable senator talks about  Sir William  Gunn's companies and says that he has gone overseas to sell Australian interests. But they are not Australian interests; they are American interests.  Sir William  Gunn has not been able to float money here. The Americans hold the controlling interest in those companies.  Sir William  went over there to raise more money to develop properties because he could not get that money here. 
Another man who comes from northern Queensland and whom I know pretty well is Clive Foyster. He has been earnestly trying to develop the northern areas of Australia. He is doing a job in the north at Lakeland Downs and has spent a fortune there. But he needs a lot more money to develop his port so as to dispose of trie thousands of tons of sorghum that he is growing in that tropical area. But did he get his money in Australia? He could not raise it anywhere in Australia and he had to go and get Japanese money. 
Well.  Senator Keeffe,  may I once again impress on you that it is all leasehold land. All these people are selling are the leases of land owned by the Crown. In case the honourable senator does not know the land laws in Queensland or the land laws of the Northern Territory, that is a fact. Surely anyone who has any understanding of the pastoral industry knows that if one is to spend big money in developing undeveloped areas it is a long time before one gets any return on capital. If droughts or other unforeseen events occur it could be 30 or 40 years before one gets a reasonable return on capital. This is the reason why in the Northern Territory the terms of leases were altered from 30 years to 50 years. This was done in order to encourage people to spend large sums of money and therefore develop these areas. Let us face it. if we look at a world map we find that the distance between Darwin and Sydney, Melbourne or Canberra is some 1,700 nautical miles direct while it is only 820 miles or 120 miles more to Singapore. The distance is only 350 miles from Darwin to Timor and less than 150 miles from the Cape York Peninsula to the mainland of New Guinea. Unless we do something about developing the northern areas of Australia, bearing in mind the teeming populations to the north of us who are living on small areas of land, we might not hold it in the long run. I say that while there are people with risk capital who are prepared to come out here and to develop leasehold land in the north, good luck to them. 1 have not heard too many cries from the Opposition or elsewhere about the last Northern Territory float which  Sir William  Gunn offered in America - I refer to the Humpty Doo business in which American investors lost millions of dollars. 
Yes, but at least Australia money was not going in there. I have not heard anyone here suggest that Australian capital should have been diving into Humpty Doo. All that is said is: 'Ah, it is a good thing we were out of that'. Who is to say that the new enterprise of  Sir William  Gunn, which is a risk again, will not suffer the same fate if there were a slump in the beef industry of Australia? lt would be a different story if Australian capital were invested. The Opposition would say: 'No, let us be out of that'. I remember that on one occasion  Senator Milliner  asked a question in which he wanted "to know whether people in the primary production areas who were suffering the effects of the rural recession were hostile towards Americans coming out here or about  Sir William  Gunn selling parts of Australia to America. Out in my country and in a lot of the other depressed areas property owners would be happy if  Sir William  Gunn brought investors to those areas. Unfortunately a lot of these people are in the position that they cannot sell and they cannot carry on. The depressed prices are such that they would welcome anyone who had the money and who was prepared to develop the area so that they could sell. 
The employment that is being created in Australia as a result of the inflow of overseas capital is terrific. Australia is a growing country. It is not possible for us, with our resources, to develop the country and the employment producing industries to the extent necessary. We could not possibly do that without overseas investment. We have absorbed into our population the migrants that we have been bringing into the country. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the world and we have been able to maintain it while carrying on this development. Certain people have made profits. Some overseas investors have been fortunate. In the main, however, little mention is made of those investors who have thrown money down the drain. A lot have invested in oil and mineral search in Australia. They have spent a fortune here. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from S.S7 to 8 p.m. 
In dealing with a matter such as foreign investment, naturally we are dealing with a very sensitive and a quite vast area. Because of the limited time available in this debate, I will simply express the general point of view that foreign investment in this country has done a remarkable job in conjunction with our rural export industries in assisting the development of the nation, in providing job opportunities and employment for Australians, including the old Australians as well as the millions of migrants who have been brought to this country since the war. Of course, there is a need for us to be vigilant at all times to see that our resources are not taken over and that we have control of them. 1 believe that Government supporters - not only the former Prime Minister but also the former Deputy Prime Minister - have made statements at different times on what they considered to be the trend in this country. 
Every now and again a great deal of hysteria is whipped up not only by honourable senators opposite for obvious election purposes, but also by the Press. A typical example of this, of course, has been seen in relation to the sale of cattle properties in northern Australia to overseas interests. A lot of false propaganda has been put out in this regard. In the time that I have available to me I intend to canvass this matter thoroughly. When people talk about the sale of cattle properties in the Northern Territory (o overseas interests, it is never mentioned that they are sold on a leasehold basis. In the Northern Territory there are pastoral leases, as there are in Queensland. These people are taking over pastoral leases, and in the case of the Northern Territory they are 50-year leases subject to certain conditions which have to be carried out. Also it is not mentioned that the lessees pay rent to the Government. In the case of the Northern Territory these rents are paid to the Federal Government. Rental determinations are made on a 10-year basis. If the Opposition happens to win the day and unfortunately, gets control of the treasury bench and decides that it should do something about these people in the Northern Territory, it will have the right to re-assess the rentals every 10 5'ears. Let us face it, if the Opposition had control of the machinery to assess the rent it could tax these people off the country. Therefore it is so much eyewash to talk about . giving away the country's birthright, selling the top end of the nation for all time and putting out this sort of propaganda. 
It is interesting to note that Australians have always had an opportunity to invest in the cattle properties of northern Queensland and the Northern Territory. Let me go back to the days when land administration was controlled by the Labor Party in Queensland for 40 years. During that period many foreign companies had control of pastoral properties where a 30- year lease arrangement operated. Those leases were always renewed and in fact some of the companies have been in control of properties for anything up to 100 years. The one difference was that in those days the lessees did not have to comply with the developmental conditions that we have today. The result was - and many of our Queensland colleagues know this - that the companies exploited the land, put nothing back and left it more or less a dust bowl. As I have said, this was done while a Labor government was in office in Queensland for some 40 years. So this is not something new as far as the development of land resources are concerned. 
But the fact still remains that this land is held as leasehold and can be resumed in time to come. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Education and Science able to say when the Government is likely to make a statement concerning the establishment of an institute of marine science at Townsville? 
-Is the Leader of the Government in the Senate, who represents the Prime Minister in this chamber, aware that many citizens and key personnel of the wool industry have left western Queensland over the past few years to seek employment elsewhere because of the prolonged drought in that area? Is the Minister also aware that many of these people have left homes which they are unable to sell and would return to them if given employment? Will the Minister ensure that when eligibility for the special federal assistance to shire councils for unemployment grants is assessed the special circumstances of western Queensland shires will be fully considered? 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSONIn his statement on relief of nonmetropolitan unemployment made on 2nd December, the Prime Minister indicated that he had written to the premiers proposing a scheme of grants to the States for employment-creating industries in affected non-metropolitan areas. The details of the scheme are to be determined in consultations with the States.I have no doubt that the Queensland Government is well aware of the employment situation within the various areas of the State and will be making its assessment of the situation in terms of the request of the Prime Minister. These matters will be the subject of consultations. I understand that arrangements have been made for the consultations to be held at a very early date. 
I  present an interim report from the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. I ask for leave to have a short statement incorporated in Hansard. 
 I am concerned with the problem of disasters in Australia. I have been associated with the drought in the western areas of Queensland and, as  Senator Keeffe  would know, with the disaster that occurred in Townsville. I see a certain amount of merit in the proposition stated by  Senator Murphy  if it will mean that we will be able to streamline or co-ordinate the services that exist at present for handling disasters. I would not be so happy if the proposition meant that complete Federal control would be involved and that funds to cope with disasters were to be provided by the taxpayer. There is a great danger in taking the responsibility away from the individual and putting it on to the taxpayer in circumstances of this kind. The insurance companies concerned with the disaster in Townsville estimate that their claims will reach as high as $2Sm. I have some recommendations to make in regard to the insurance of houses. In my view it is absolutely necessary that the individual accept responsibility not only to ensure that he has insurance cover on his property and contents but also that the insurance cover is adequate. 
I am coming to that. I propose first to deal with the proposition advanced by  Senator Murphy.  The individual has a responsibility to make sure that he has protection against things such as droughts and cyclones. These are events which do not just happen overnight; we all know that they are going to happen. It is the individual's responsibility to take all precautions against such an event. If the cost of these disasters is to be passed on to the taxpayer and the Federal Government has to come to the party, and if everyone knows that he will be compensated for any damage, obviously people would not take the necessary precautions and would not bother to insure against such an event. He would not bother to insist that his building complied with the regulations or that building structures would withstand cyclones. Consequently it would cost the nation a fortune. 
I invite honourable senators to consider the position in relation to primary industries. A primary producer finds it impossible to insure with an insurance company against flood damage to crops or to get insurance cover on livestock, simply because no-one can assess after the event whether the disaster was responsible for the loss and no-one is able to assess the value of the articles lost. In the event of 
I  flood livestock might have been carried hundreds of miles down the river, so after the event no-one is able to assess whether adequate precautions were taken by the landholder to look after his stock. It is for this reason that the primary industries of Australia have to carry their own insurance against occurrences of this kind. In some circumstances it is unfortunate that people who have taken adequate precautions still have been hit, but this is one of the risks that one takes in primary industry. But in the case of housing and businesses in towns the responsibility is still with the householder or owner of a business to take adequate precautions. 

 Senator Keeffe mentioned the plight of pensioners. I appreciate that many people in the community cannot alford the high cost of insurance cover against storm and tempest or flood damage. But this is where the State government could come into the picture. In Australia responsibilities are still with the States. The Slates want the power to con' rol their own affairs and to deal with local government problems. These must remain matters for the State.  Senator Mulvihill,  who is now trying to interject, wants to hand all these matters over to the taxpayer so that no-one would have to worry about his house being washed away because the taxpayer would pay for it. That is the attitude adopted by the honourable senator. Let us get down to the basics of this proposition. In Queensland there is the State Government Insurance Office which has a monopoly in some areas, especially in the case of workers compensation. It would be in the interests of State governments, particularly in Queensland - I do not know what the situation is in other States - to subsidise pensioners and others not in a position to pay for insurance cover against storm and tempest. That would be much cheaper for the Government in the long run. This would be the way to handle the situation. For God's sake let us not take from the individual his responsibility to take adequate precautions. If we do that we will be in the situation where people will not care because they will know that they will be paid for anything that is damaged. 
It would cost millions of dollars if primary producers also were brought into the scheme. Let us face it, primary producers are as much entitled to the taxpayers' money as any other members of the community. If the scheme proposed by the Opposition were adopted we could find in some western areas in lime of drought that people would be encouraged to say: '1 have 6,000 sheep but I shall let them die because the taxpayers will pay for them.' 
What would happen then? What would a Government instrumentality say to a landholder on drought stricken country when he could not afford to feed his stock if he had to be compensated for his loss of stock and lack of income for the year. 
That may be so, but the responsibility is still on the individual to take every precaution. Do not let us have a situation in which an individual can say, if he so desires, that he does not have to worry. That is what I am afraid of. We know there are people building in flood areas in our cities. The floods go through some of those areas every few years; yet the people stay there. If they were to be recompensed by the taxpayers every time they were flooded they would not bother to move away from those areas. It is hard enough to get them out now. Of course, there is a problem on the Gold Coast but let us face it; people there were prepared to build right on the foreshores. This may be the fault of the people themselves or the fault of the local government authority at the time which allowed it to happen. But we all know that we cannot help these people unless the trees and normal growth is left undisturbed. We would have to build great walls to protect the shores. The damage on the Gold Coast is due to the fact that all the tree growth was removed prior to building. Now the taxpayers have to come to the rescue and pay for all the damage that is done. 
By all means let us have an organisation to advise the people or the local authorities concerned that they should not do this and should not do that or otherwise certain things will happen. As I said when I began my speech, I do not disagree with the principle behind the idea put forward by the 
Opposition so long as it does not involve the expenditure of a terrific amount of money and eventually create the position that everyone can go to a common coffer and be recompensed for any losses incurred. I can see real danger in such a proposition. 
My time is limited and 1 want to refer to a few things associated with the Townsville cyclone.  Senator Keeffe  would have inspected most of the area affected. Anyone who has inspected the area would know without doubt that quite a few of the older homes were well built. Obviously building inspections had been carried out. These homes withstood the cyclone, lt appears that most of the homes destroyed in Townsville were either the very old ones or the very new. Their destruction was due mainly to bad building technques used by spec, builders or jerry builders. Naturally the people bought them after they were completed. They did not see them being built and did not know the workmanship that went into them. A lot of these homes were not properly tied down. I was watching one home at the time and saw the entire roof go off. It was blown over 2 streets and landed on another home. I inspected the timber in that roof and went back to the house afterwards to inspect it. There was one nail every 5 or 6 feet to hold that roof onto the top beams of the house. It had not been skew nailed and had not even been bolted clown at the corners. The anchor bolts which were supposed to hold the roof down were put under one brick. 
Whatever it is called, I am saying that we should not expect the Australian taxpayers to have to pay for this sort of thing. Construction should be better and the supervision should be stricter. There should be much more inspection. The local authority is responsible for this in that area.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned also the lack of information given to people who take out insurance cover. Everybody before taking out an insurance cover should know exactly what the cover entails; whether they are covered for storm and tempest, or water damage, or whatever it may be. Another lesson we learnt in the case of that cyclone - the same would apply when there is heavy rain or flood conditions - is that there should be adequate supplies of tarpaulins and polythene sheeting available. This was invaluable for the protection of property within a house which had lost its roof. 
I would like to have a good look at this proposition moved by the Leader of the Opposition because it was expressed in pretty broad terms, lt may mean that there should be some sort of organisation that will assist in co-ordinating and streamlining the work of disaster committees or local organisations. I agree fully with  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson that there are no better people to handle things in a disaster than the local people. I would hate to see a bureaucracy in Canberra having full authority to say what will be done in another area. 
 Senator Mulvihill  will be able to speak later on and I hope that the kangaroos will still be hopping at that time. The proposition of the Leader of the Opposition would have to be more detailed before I would say yea or nay to it. He mentioned what is done in Canada and the United States but they do not have the same sort of federal system that we have here. Their's may be similar in certain respects but the powers held by the States in this country make it difficult for the Commonwealth to have full control. There would have to be State and local government compliance for the Commonwealth to set up some organisation. All parties would have to be in agreement. I accept the fact that there is a need for some authority which would learn the lessons of past disasters and which could use the information gained, together with modern technology, to combat these things with greater effect. We find always during disasters that it is quite a while before the organisations get working and in that time a lot of damage occurs that could probably have been avoided. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order. The honourable senator's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from  5.42  to  8  p.m. 
My question is  addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. In view of the uncertainty which appears to surround the assistance that the Commonwealth is prepared to give to the Queensland Government for damage resulting from cyclone Althea, will the Minister inform the Senate of what the Commonwealth has agreed to do? Is it a fact that as a result of discussions between the Queensland Premier and the Prime Minister, as reported in the Press, the Townsville City Council will have to meet $100,000 only of the damage to the Council's property and installations and that the State's commitment will be met in full? 
We have already had 2 days of debate on this issue. No doubt by this stage most of us have forgotten what has taken place. 
The Indian Ocean is still there, as  Senator Gair  said. 1 will not detain the Senate too long at this stage. I felt that I should make some contribution to the debate because 1 was one of the members of the sub-committee that listened to the evidence and presented the original report. As a member of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs I was present when the report was scrutinised and amended by that Committee before presentation to the Parliament. 1 wish to bring to the notice of the Senate some of the misconceptions that seem to have arisen in the debate so far. Firstly, the sub-committee was not set up by the Government as  Senator Gietzelt,  I think, seemed to suggest. The sub-committee was set up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. Members of all parties- ^-Government parties, the Opposition, and the Democratic Labor Party - were on that Committee. 
In dribs and drabs members of the Opposition resigned from it. The Opposition was not represented on the sub-committee when the report was prepared, but members of the Opposition from both Houses were present at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee when the report was considered, amended in certain ways and finally agreed to by all. There were no dissenting reports. If I recall correctly what happened, I think  Senator McManus  was the only one who had a reservation on a particular issue. The report is a unanimous report of the Foreign Affairs Committee. 
So far the only Opposition member of that Committee to have spoken in the debate is  Senator Wheeldon.  Other Opposition members have had a few words to say. 

 Senator Wheeldon was absent when the subcommittee's report was prepared and when it was discussed by the Committee. I suppose  Senator Wheeldon  felt that he had the 
Tight  to attack the report or to not agree with it. I repeat that the report is a report of the Foreign Affairs Committte. It was agreed to by all parties, including members of  the  Opposition who obviously were elected by their caucus to take their places on that Committee. It is a detailed report of the evidence presented before the subcommittee. I believe that the report gives an unbiased approach to Australia's requirement in the Indian Ocean region. It considers not only our approach to foreign affairs and defence but also our approach to trade. 
It is interesting to note that our trade in the Indian Ocean region, whilst not very large when compared with our exports to other parts of the world, is still quite considerable. The value of our exports to the South African region last year were over $102m. In the East African area, which is further to the north and which includes countries close to the Middle East, the value of our trade was approximately $36m. In the South East Asian region, which includes India, Ceylon and similar countries, our trade was worth $75m. The value of our imports from the East African region was quite considerable - approximately $170m. Most of it was oil, which is vital to this nation. At present we have quite large trading opportunities there, and they are increasing. As the newly developed countries become more economic it is quite obvious that the Indian Ocean region will be a great deal more important to us. 
It is in the areas of foreign affairs and defence that we, as an Indian Ocean country, are more concerned. I listened to the speeches of Opposition members. I will deal briefly with them.  Senator Wheeldon  seemed to confine all his remarks to an attack on South Africa. He more or less suggested that Australia should interfere in the affairs of South Africa. At the same time he suggested that what other countries, particularly the communist countries, do within their own borders is their own affair. I think that suggestion is something at which we really have to look. Whilst we may not agree with the apartheid policy in South 
Africa, South Africa is still a nation which is of vital concern in this area. We have our responsibilities to it and we are just as concerned to build up trade and to build up peaceful relations with a country like South Africa as with countries such as China and Russia, or anyone else. 
The recommendations in the early part of the report - they start at page 9 - deal with Australia's goodwill initiatives. The whole of the report suggests that we should endeavour to bring about better relations with the nations of the region by trying to promote peace in the area but that at the same time we should build up our defences and be prepared in case this area should become an area of conflict. As has been quite rightly pointed out during the course of the debate, the Indian Ocean area is very vital to the big powers. No doubt both Russia and China will be trying to maintain great influence in the area. Of course, if they are successful it is quite obvious that Japan, which is not only dependent so much on oil from the Middle East but also has become very much more dependent on our great resources of iron ore in Western Australia will be interested in this area also. 
I cannot recall at this stage. I think that evidence was taken in Western Australia by a sub-committee consisting of  Senator Sim  and another Western Australian senator who was on the committee at that stage. I will obtain that information for the honourable senator. But what we have to do in this area is what I have suggested. It amazed me that some of the members of the Opposition should make all sorts of attacks on the report.  Senator O'Byrne  gave us a lecture on isolationism and pacifism. Whilst I appreciate his views on these matters it is practical, natural and absolutely essential that we should be aware of what is likely to happen in the future. A lot of people today are putting a lot of faith in the meetings between  President  Nixon and the Chinese leaders. They have the idea that once they have a dialogue or a bit of a discussion and a party everything will be all right. But many of us remember Chamberlain's visit to Munich and the parlies that were held in the United States between the Japanese and the Americans while the Japanese fleet was heading towards Pearl Harbour. Whilst we appreciate that it is better to promote more dialogue and more friendly relations between nations, we at all times have to bc prepared for the inevitable. Because of the way that the Chinese, the Russians and the Japanese are likely to perform in the future - they are all vitally concerned in the Indian Ocean - it is obvious to us that we have to be vitally concerned in the Indian Ocean also because we have u substantial interest in this area. 
I am very pleased at the reception that the report has received by all sections in this place. We may not agree with everything contained in the report. Let us face it, this report was drawn up on submissions and evidence given to us. Because such things as the forces which may be employed in the Indian Ocean are important to us. we have put down in the report what the Russian complement might be, what the American complement might be and so on. We have dealt particularly with the naval forces. No-one knows exactly the complement of the underwater forces in this ,rea, and these will be the main vital forces employed if a conflict should occur in the future. Therefore we were unable in this report to say how many of this particular type of naval force the Russians have in the area. As a result there is every reason why we should be vigilant and every reason why we should build up our naval and air forces in the west. This report has recommended such a move. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Air been drawn to the Press statements appearing in the Sydney Morning Herald' and the Canberra Times* last week concerning the loss of a Royal Australian Air Force Orion aircraft in the United States of America during 1968? As those statements imply that the Australian Government has lost its case for compensation from the manufacturers, will the Minister inform the Senate of the present position? 
I present the following petition: 
The Honourable the  President,  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to National Development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
 May I say from he outset that I too am concerned about the defence of this country. I believe also that a viable and effective aircraft industry is important in that defence. I think that many people have not realised the changes that have occurred in the aircraft industry since the last war. The cost of building aircraft in those days was very small compared with what it is today. We know that during the Second World War many different types of aircraft were operated by the Royal Australian Air Force in one area. Those aircraft included fighters, medium bombers, bombers, reconnaissance aircraft and so forth. But since that time we have developed into the jet age and the sophistication of aircraft has been such that the cost of developing and manufacturing any particular type has become enormous. Therefore, the number of orders of aircraft that one is to build must be such that one can cut down the developmental costs. 
Australia is a small country and the requirements of the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army are such that we would certainly need overseas orders if we were to develop a really high class aircraft to be used in particular for military purposes. We would have to compete with multi-million dollar enterprises in the United States of America and Europe. Even the British found that they had to join forces with European operators in order to develop the Concorde. We have also seen the Rolls Royce company go broke trying to develop an aircraft engine to fit that aircraft for the jet age of the future, the supersonic age. Consequently, the Australian Government, which has the responsibility of looking after the taxpayers money, had to weigh all these propositions. I believe that it has come up with a very reasonable proposition in regard to maintaining a viable industry here. 
We have used our local industry to manufacture the aircraft and the parts that have been found to be suitable for our Services and they have been bought by the experts from the Royal Australian Air Force and the Army. As a result, if we reached the stage of a conflict our industry would be able to produce aircraft that were at least comparable with most that were operating at the time. This has been the object of the Government right through. Aircraft that our aircraft industry has manufactured in Australia include the Canberra bomber, the Sabre fighter, the Vampire fighter and trainer, the Mirage fighter and trainer and the Macchi trainer. Of course, in the engine field we have manufactured the Nene, Avon, Atar and Viper engines.  Senator James  McClelland said that the Macchi aircraft looked as though it should be tossed out now and that we should get another aircraft. I think that the RAAF has been more than satisfied with the role that the Macchi aircraft has played in the training of our pilots. 1 do not think that, at this stage anyway, the RAAF envisages dispensing with that aircraft for some time, lt has done a remarkable job and it is capable of doing a job for some time to come. 
I do not think that it is in the interests of this nation and the taxpayers in particular when something is doing a job to scrap it and get something else. I agree that that is not to say that we should not go overseas and have a look to see what is available. 
The experts have been overseas looking around, but that is not to say that they will purchase any other aircraft to replace the Macchi trainer. 
As the Macchi goes on other projects will continue. Reference was made to the Project N aircraft. I do not have the material with me at the moment, but I saw a comparison between the Project N aircraft and the twin Otter aircraft. I do not know whether  Senator Poyser  has operated a twin Otter or been in one. 
If he has been in a twin Otter he will know that this aircraft is very similar in its operational functions to the Project N aircraft. I could not imagine that at this stage the RAAF would have any purpose for an aircraft like the twin Otter. 
I am saying it. 
I am one of those who believe that the RAAF in the future will be the front line fighter of this nation, if we are attacked. I do not want to see it, as other people might, fighting with aircraft as our forces did with the Wirraway aircraft against the Zero aircraft. So far as I am concerned, only the best is good enough for our Royal Australian Air Force fighter pilots. It is all right for  Senator Poyser  to interject. I know that he has his problems. Nearly all the Commonwealth Aircraft Factories' establishments are down in his area. 
If the executive of his Party down there had any say in the running of this country I do not know whether there would be an aircraft industry. If there was, it would be only to sell aircraft to North Vietnam dr somewhere else. So let us not be concerned about our performance in relation to defence. I believe that the Project N aircraft has opportunities in the private sector. There could be possibilities with the Army also. In the private sector, its short take-off and landing capabilities are ideal for certain purposes in certain areas. Because of cheaper running costs compared with heli- copters, which naturally the RAAF would be using for this type of purpose, it would be ideal. 1 believe that the Government is doing a good job in endeavouring to help this project. No doubt, in the future it will help to see whether we can obtain sales overseas. 
All right; what is the honourable senator doing to promote it? Does he know of any private organisation which might want this aircraft? 
How many has the honourable senator sold? That is the interesting point. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Lawrie)  - Order!  Senator Poyser  will cease interjecting. 
That is an idea. 
At least on this side of the chamber we do have ideas and do not have to reply on an outside organisation to decide things for us. I believe that the Government has shown a responsibility not only to the aircraft industry but also to the taxpayers of this country. Corporations and organisations overseas have lost millions because a project has failed to come up to scratch. I believe that this is a situation which we in this country cannot afford. While we can select aircraft that are suitable for our conditions and operations and are able to build, maintain and manufacture the parts for those aircraft we are moving along the right track in a very stable and responsible way. It would be tragic if we tried to compete with some of these overseas firms in order to produce aircraft that would be better than some of theirs. The cost of this to the taxpayers would be enormous. It is all very well for those who have not the responsibility of running this country to speak in this way. 
We hear the Labor Party on different occasions saying that it wants to spend money on this and that. It is not very interested in defence but it wants to spend money on the development of military aircraft. Who they would be for, I would not know. I believe that the Government, having for years had the responsibility to run this country in a profitable and economic way, has done a good job. It has been able to maintain a force of aircraft. There are 7,000 people employed in the industry. Admittedly, that number has risen and fallen, but it has been maintained on a reasonably stable baisis. New projects which have been put forward can play a very important part in assisting this industry. For example, the military has a requirement for a light observation helicopter and 75 will be purchased over a long period. This will keep the industry going. We also have the Ikara project. Approval has been given for an effort to be made to achieve overseas sales of the Ikara anti submarine weapons system. This too will enable the industry to have some work with which to continue. 
The Turana target drone is another example. It is based on the Ikara system and has been adopted by the Royal Australian Navy. After successful research and development by the local industry the first small production run of Turanas is about to be commenced. Then, of course, we have the Project N which I have mentioned before. In addition to aircraft specially selected by the RAAF we will have a requirement at some stage for a replacement for the Mirage aircraft. At some stage, replacements will be required for some of our other aircraft. We believe that our aircraft industry will be able to manufacture the parts and, in some cases, construct the aircraft. AH the arguments and Opposition rubbishing of the Government's operations in this field are unfounded. 
The policy of the Australian Democratic Labor Party is understandable. The DLP believes in defence. To back up that belief, it must promote policies which will generate expenditure in that area. Although we on the Government side are most keen on defence, we believe that there are other projects which are- 
That may be the honourable senator's point of view. But I am pointing out that the Government is doing in a responsible way in developing its own aircraft industry in this country. I believe that it has done its job, as I said before in a reasonable way. This is one area in which money may be spent.  Bi?t  we could spend money on all sorts of projects. One of the mot important is the development of this nation to which this Government has contributed for so long. A great deaf of money cannot be spent in one direction only on the basis that enough will still bc available for expenditure in another field. In the development of this country, we must have balanced expenditure whether it is in relation to military requirements, the expansion of our resources or in the production of wealth. After all, these are all important in our defence structure. It is of no good meeting all the military requirements of our country if the country does not produce any wealth. The development of a country needs balanced expenditure. I believe that this Government has followed that course. I am quite happy at this stage with its performance in relation to the Australian aircraft industry. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a statement in today's Press attributed to  Mr George  Meaney, who is the  President  of the American Federation of Labour and 
Congress of Industrial Organisations, that he bad become disenchanted with strikes and believed that arbitration should be used to avoid all strikes? As  Mr Meaney  is  president  of America's major union organisation, will the Minister invite him to Australia to educate the Australian trade union movement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Air. In view of the difficulty of acquiring, in closely settled areas, sites for bombing and gunnery ranges for the Royal Australian Air Force, and in view of the fact that the Longreach aerodrome is in the process of being upgraded to take medium jet aircraft, will the Minister include the Longreach area in any investigation of sites on which to establish such ranges? 
I rise to support the Queensland Grant Bill. One could be excused for wondering whether there was an election around the corner somewhere in the next week or two because of the remarks which have come from the other side of the chamber. The  2  honourable senators opposite who have entered the debate so far have opened their remarks by saying that they support the Bill and then have done everything possible to indicate that they were against it. Before entering this field of the election - after all I have to reply to some of the unfair criticism which has been levelled against the Government - I think that I should speak to the Bill and the reason for it.  Senator Milliner  touched on the reason why this Bill is being debated before this chamber tonight, lt is because of the situation which has occurred in western Queensland which the State Government declared a disaster area because for some 7 years out of 10 - 1 think it might be better to say 10 years out of 13 - there has been a serious drought. Unfortunately very few States know anything about drought other than one of 3 weeks or 3 months. A 10-year drought is something unknown in any other State. It is only natural that there is no provision whereby the Commonwealth can grant assistance to the State to provide for this circumstance. 
When Queensland came to the Commonwealth and asked for $10m the Commonwealth said: 'We are giving you rural reconstruction to look after those people. We are looking after drought affected people in every other State through rural reconstruction. We are making money available for this purpose'. But of course this is not good enough because it is not the actual landholders who are in trouble at the moment in the disaster areas of western Queensland. It is the shires and the people who live in the towns who have been affected so much by this drought. Rural reconstruction does not look alter the problems of those people. I ask honourable senators to look at most of the shires in western Queensland where 90 per cent of the rates come from rural landholders. They are in the position where they cannot pay. The shires are virtually broke because they cannot collect SO per cent of their money. What happened was that the State Government came to the rescue and said, 'We will make $10m available'. This amount was provided to make long term loans available to the landholders to pay their rates so that the local government bodies could operate and, as a result, the towns could benefit, maintain some employment and remain viable. 
The honourable senator can make his speech later. Of course  Senator Milliner  said that we have had drought before - that we had a drought in 1902. Of course we had. We had droughts in 1926 right through to 1940. In those days the landholders were not assisted by the government of the day. What happened was that the landholders went broke. The towns went broke. Not one bit of assistance was given. Only onethird of the landholders in the droughts of 1902 and 1926 were able to stay on their properties. Today the Queensland Government has tried and has been successful in maintaining most of the people on their properties and in keeping the towns and shires going. That is the reason for the Bill which we are debating tonight. The Queensland Government said: 'We will have to obtain the money from the Commonwealth somehow. It does not understand our position. The other States do not understand the drought position in Queensland. We will have to obtain the money in some other way'.  Senator Gair  would know that we have not come to the Commonwealth Grants Commission before mainly because of the free hospital scheme which we have in Queensland. 
Every time Queensland has sought assistance in the federal sphere it has been told: You will have to get rid of your free hospital scheme. You cannot afford that sort of luxury'. But Queensland has wanted to maintain its free hospital scheme. I give credit to  Senator Gair  and his Government for introducing it and I give credit to the present Government for maintaining it. 
The present Government will maintain the free hospital scheme while it is in office. Whether it will be maintained if the present Opposition were to get on to the Treasury benches is another matter. That is one of the reasons why Queensland has had to come forward on this occasion with such an application. Of course there have been complaints about the application made by the Queensland Government, but it is not unusual for people in the southern States to be unaware of the Queensland situation. It has happened in the past and it will happen again. One would think that the Queensland members of the Opposition would applaud the fact that the Queensland Government has been able to get this money to assist the drought stricken area of western Queensland. 
I refer to some of the statements which were made earlier by 2 Opposition speakers. The transport system in Queensland is a subject which has received a bit of attention. It is interesting to note that the freight rates in Queensland have been maintained over a very long period. Queensland is a very small State with a vast area of productive land. 
I will qualify that by saying Queensland has a small population but a vast area of productive land and vast untapped resources. It is necessary to maintain a railway and road system in Queensland that covers the whole State. In lots of the other States the main railway lines and arterial roads are fairly close to the capital cities and the seaboard and in some States the length of railway lines and of roads is very small in comparison with the situation in Queensland and the number of people who contribute to the upkeep of those systems is 2 or 3 times as great, lt is only natural that the cost of maintaining rail services in Queensland is great. It is to the credit of the present Queensland Government that in the 15 years it has been in office the rail freights to the outlying areas of Queensland have been reduced and not increased, as one would expect in view of the way costs have increased in most other sectors. Wool freights into Brisbane have been reduced by some 20 per cent since 1956. The freight on groceries and other commodities of that nature from Brisbane to 
Longreach was as high as $96 a ton, but it has been reduced to $46 a ton. 
 I shall be adverting to the subject of minerals in a moment. I am dealing with the transport system at the moment. The honourable senator should give me a chance. He will have an opportunity to speak later in the debate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)  - Order!  Senator Maunsell  is addressing the Chair on this Bill. 
I am not worrying about the interjections from Opposition senators,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  They will gel their chance to speak later. Opposition senators talk about the amount of money that Queensland has not received from the Commonwealth for certain projects. They do not mention the fact that Queensland has been able to get something like $30m or $40m from the Commonwealth for its beef roads while the other States have not received anything. Queensland has its own particular priorities. 
The present Queensland Government has done a great job for the State. The construction of beef roads and the development of the interior of Queensland has been its No. 1 priority. The other States have had different priorities. Queensland has obtained money from the Commonwealth for the development of irrigation schemes and its brigalow lands. Those are the things that Queensland regards as being of top priority. Opposition senators from the other States would not know what it is all about. They would not know a brigalow when they saw one. Those are some of the fields in which Queensland has obtained assistance from the Commonwealth. The Queensland Government has been able to get sufficient funds from the Commonwealth in those areas where it believes it has priority. 
I turn now to the subject of minerals in which Opposition senators are so interested. All one ever hears from them is criticism of the fact that the Queensland Government will receive a royalty of 5c a ton on coal mined in that State. It is obvious that Opposition senators have not read the Goonyella agreement. Under that agreement the mining company concerned is to build a railway line valued at $3 6m and at the end of 12 years that railway line is to be, free of debt, the property of Queensland. In addition it is expected that the profit to be made out of the cartage of this coal to the seaboard will be $1.08 a ton. Certain other States receive 15c a ton in royalty. That is chicken feed. Some of the railway lines in those States are owned by the mining companies. 
I will give honourable senators all the facts in a minute. I have them in front of me. Another subject which is never mentioned by Opposition senators is that it is steaming coal which is being sold overseas. 
I mean coking coal is being sold overseas. Steaming coal is not being exported; it is being stockpiled at no cost to the Queensland Government, 
Yes, and there will be a power house at the top of it when the building of that heap has been finished and the raw products to operate the power house will be provided by 'he mining company concerned; so honourable senators opposite should not talk about Queensland receiving a royalty of only 5c a ton when some other States receive a royalty of 15c a ton. The people of Queensland will be getting a great deal more out of the Goonyella coal agreement and the other coal deposits in the State. 
Because the honourable senator said that the Queensland Government has been disloyal.  Senator Milliner  made that allegation because Queensland agreed to a royalty of 5c a ton. No mention was made of these other matters. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT  - Order!  Senator Maunsell  is addressing the Chair and 1 ask that he be heard in silence. 
 The same situation applies to Queensland's bauxite deposits. 
All that honourable senators opposite are interested in is what Queensland gets in the way of royalties. At Weipa, Queensland has the biggest bauxite deposits in the world. At present Queensland does not have the resources to convert its bauxite deposits into aluminium. That requires vast quantities of power and water. Because of its small population and the limited nature of its development Queensland has not reached the stage where it has the necessary power houses and water schemes to utilise its bauxite deposits to the full. But it is getting that way and it is doing so quickly, thanks to the power houses which are being developed. It is expected that within a few years the largest aluminium smelter in the world will be at Gladstone. 
Of course, members of the Opposition have voted against such development proposals whenever they have been put forward in the Parliament. They voted against the Goonyella and Comalco agreements. They voted against the lot. They have not wanted mining companies to come into Queensland. But Queensland will have all of these forms of development in time. It will not be too long before Queensland will notice the millions of dollars that the mining companies will bring in. A new company has commenced operations up near Townsville. Some $200m will be spent there in a few years on nickel mining. There have been knockers of that project, too. People are going around and saying that the mining will pollute the sea, the atmosphere and everything else around the place. They are trying their hardest to stop nickel mining in Townsville. That is the sort of thinking of the present Opposition. 
Let us have another look at some of the wild statements which have been made in this debate.  Senator Milliner  spoke about quite a few subjects. He mentioned the liquor laws in Queensland. Only minor amendments to the liquor laws were demanded by parliamentarians on the occasion to which he referred. They were not great changes, as he well knows; they were very minor amendments to the liquor laws. He referred also to the subject of education. I would say that it ill-behoves any member of the Opposition in Queensland to villify the Government's record on education. That is one field in which the Queensland Government has been outstanding. It has an outstanding record in relation to the money spent to provide education, particularly to the people in the outback and the remote areas. University education has spread to north Queensland. A university has been established in that area. After the present Government came into power in 1957 high schools were built very smartly in areas that had never seen a high school before. Institutes of technology also were built. Education is one field in which the Queensland Government has done a tremendous job, and if it has to go to the Commonwealth Grants Commission or anywhere else to get the funds to spend in that direction, it is worth white. 
That may be so, but I am defending a government which has done a tremendous job in Queensland and I am answering the criticism that has been levelled at the present Government by the so-called Opposition on the other side of this chamber.  Senator McAuliffe  spent a lot of time telling us about what the dogs were barking up and down the streets of Brisbane. I presume that comment had something to do with bookmakers who wanted to form a union to protect their good name, or something in that direction. He reckoned it was a Mafialike organisation. The only Mafia-like organisation that 1 know of which has shifted to Brisbane recently - this is what the dogs are barking around Brisbane - is the Australian Communist Party which has moved its headquarters from Melbourne. 1 suppose that is what the honourable senator was talking about. 
I am sticking to the Bill. I must reply to some of the statements that were made. I presume that the Mafia-type organisation to which the honourable senator referred is the Australian 
Communist Party, and the only reason it shifted its headquarters to Brisbane is that it regards Queensland as fertile ground for its activities. The fertile ground to which I refer is the Trades Hall which dominates the Party that is offering itself as the next government of that State. 
I commend the Bill to the Senate. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, this Bill is before us because the Queensland Government is determined to assist the wool growing industry in particular, aud generally the grazing industry of western Queensland which involves all the towns and the people associated with it. They have suffered from 10 years of drought and were caught at a time when the price of this commodity was such that they were hit from 2 directions. It is estimated that since the war this area has brought into this nation not less than $2,000m of overseas funds. 1 am referring only to the funds received from wool produced in the area. Every person who lives there, whether he works in the town or whether he is associated in one way or the other with the industry, has contributed to this position. Surely this nation, in the position in which it is today, must help the people who have been able to contribute that kind of revenue to the State despite very severe conditions. It is only natural for any thinking person to agree that the Queensland Government is right in getting what assistance it can, even if that assistance has to come from the Commonwealth Grants Commission. I commend the Bill to the Senate. 
I rise to explain some of the remarks that were made by  Senator 
McAuliffe who comes from my own State of Queensland,  t  thank him for drawing my attention to the figure of £98 which appeared in the Hansard report of yesterday's proceedings. I accept that this amount should be $98 and I will have it changed in Hansard. No doubt the inclusion of this amount was due to a typographical error. 
It is all right,  Senator -  you will have your chance later to speak. Obviously  Senator McAuliffe  has not been in other parts of Queensland outside Brisbane and the south coast area. If he had he would understand that prior to the Country-Liberal Party Government coming into office in Queensland road transport was not allowed to operate at all except on special runs such as from Toowoomba to Brisbane. Road transport was not allowed to compete under any circumstances with the railways. However, the Country-Liberal Party Government allowed road transport to operate. 
Also it is significant that that Queensland Government was responsible for building a tremendous amount of bitumen roads to the outback of Queensland. Because of this, transport operators were able to go in and operate in competition with the railways. An important fact was that interstate operators, using section 92 of the Constitution, were able to bring produce up from the other States and compete with the railways. These operators did not pay road tax and were able to go to areas such as Longreach and cart goods at rates lower than the railways were charging. This is why the Government was able to negotiate with local business houses in places like Longreach a reduced rate for groceries and all other items. Let us face it, places such as Longreach buy most of their groceries and other goods from Brisbane and some from provincial cities such as Rockhampton. 
When the Minister for Transport, who was then  Mr Chalk,  negotiated the agreements with the business houses for the supply of goods at a reduced rate to Longreach and other places, businesses in Rockhampton in particular objected that this was cutting them out of their business with Longreach. This objection was fair enough. After all, the Country Party believes in decentralisation and therefore it is only right that the interests of Rockhampton should have been looked after. Nevertheless a freight rate was negotiated in which grocery lines in particular could be sent at a reduced rate between Brisbane and Rockhampton. Also, a reduced rate was negotiated between Rockhampton and Longreach. A $4 a ton handling charge was given to the distributors in Rockhampton and it was considered that this would give them a reasonable profit margin. The freight rates in those days were in pounds; I am expressing them in dollars. The freight charge per ton from Brisbane to Rockhampton was $28. A charge of S4 was imposed to meet overheads. The freight rate from Rockhampton to Longreach was $14. So the freight rate per ton from Brisbane to Longreach, including the $4 to meet overheads, was $46. But if the product was ordered through distributors in Rockhampton, the charge from Brisbane to Longreach was $42. When a product was transported from Longreach to Winton 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Laucke)  - Order! Honourable senators will cease interjecting. 
They do not know what I am talking about. They do not want to hear an explanation of these matters that they have queried. 
Hang on. You asked the question. You wanted me to answer you. 
I am trying to explain it to you. If you will give me a chance, I will explain it. This is what happened in that area. The Townsville business houses then realised that they could lose a bit of business if products were carried through to Winton. So they negotiated a contract with the Railway Department involving the use of the line to Mount Isa. The object was that the Townsville business houses were not to encroach on the Rockhampton area and Rockhampton business houses were not to encroach on the Townsville area. That is the explanation as to why freight charges for goods transported between Rockhampton and Winton have been lower than those in respect of products coming from Cairns. No approach has been made by the business houses of Winton. They said: 'We have had a fair go in one direction. We do not ask for a lower rate in the other direction. People on the northern line operate through Townsville. We obtain our benefit by operating through Rockhampton, that is fair enough'. That is the explanation of that situation. The next point with which I wish to deal is secret contracts. As honourable senators know, secret contracts have always been part of railway business. 
1 do not like secret contracts. But I believe that, in the circumstances, the Queensland Government had to act in this way. Interstate hauliers - the Thomas Nationwide Transport company among others - intruded. They were able to cart goods from New South Wales and elsewhere to Queensland and were not required to disclose their contract rates. They were able to cart, in particular, loads of steel from Newcastle to Queensland cities and so compete against the Queensland railways. The Queensland Railway Department lost a good deal of business as a result of this development. From what I have heard from Opposition members, it appears obvious that they wish to see the Queensland railways destroyed. The Queensland Railway Department in order to try to preserve its business had to offer contract rates to Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and other steel manufacturing companies in order to compete against TNT and the other interstate hauliers. The Railway Department believed that it had the right not to disclose the details of its contracts and to keep them secret in the same way as TNT and other hauliers did not disclose this information. Whether or not the honourable senator or 1 think that this practice is right, I still believe that the Queensland Railway Department and the Queensland Government have the responsibility to see that Queensland railways do obtain a fair share of the business from interstate business houses. 
Yes, I would. 
I would say that the Country Party has done more than any other Party to try to have that report tabled. We have been informed that certain matters dealt with in the Beckingsale report have already been put into action. I have been a party to the Scott report. We have been trying to get this information. The Queensland Government - and probably quite rightly so - has said that until such time as it has studied all the ramifications of the Beckingsale report, particularly all the ramifications of the Scott report - a private industry report which conflicts with the Beckingsale report - it is not prepared to disclose the findings of the Beckingsale report. That approach may be fair enough. I think that I have answered all the queries that  Senator McAuliffe  raised. 
I present the report of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
The report which I have just presented recommends the repeal of the existing defence forces retirement benefits legislation and the immediate introduction of a new scheme. In the report the Committee outlines a scheme which it considers should meet the requirements of: the defence force for the foreseeable future. The Committee's conclusions were greatly influenced by two considerations. Firstly, the special nature of a career in the defence force. Very few members indeed are permitted to continue to serve until the age of 60, and the risk of death or injury, in peace as well as war, is far higher than in civilian employment. For these reasons we do not believe that the Commonwealth superannuation scheme is an appropriate foundation on which to base a retirement benefits scheme for the defence force. Secondly, the need for simplicity and comprehensibility. We found that few members of the defence force have a clear understanding of the present DFRB scheme. The Committee believes that retirement benefits are significant factors in both recruiting and retention, and that any scheme which is not comprehensible to the average servicemen will fail in one of its main purposes. 
After intensive consideration of the present DFRB scheme, the Committee came unanimously to the conclusion that the post-1959 scheme is quite unsuited to the needs of the Services and could not be modified to make it suitable. A completely new scheme is required. This is in no sense a criticism of the members of the present DFRB Board, who have at all times cooperated with the Committee and have been of great assistance to it, but rather of the Acts they have been required to administer. The following is an outline of the more important features of the scheme the Committee proposes: 
All members should contribute a flat 5i per cent of their pay. The present post- 1959 scheme has a varying rate of contribution based on age of entry. This varying scale has certain actuarial advantages, but the Committee decisively discarded it in the interests of simplicity and comprehensibility. 
Both officers and other ranks should be entitled to receive a pension - which we prefer to call retired pay - when retiring after 20 years or more of effective service. 
Retired pay should be expressed as a percentage of final pay, on an accelerating scale, ranging from 35 per cent of final pay after 20 years service to 76.5 per cent after 40 years service. 
All existing contributors should be transferred to the new scheme. The transfer arrangements are set out in detail in the report. 
There should be automatic adjustments of retired pay in accordance with fluctuations in average weekly earnings. 
A possible way of achieving this would be to maintain retired pay as a percentage of current active pay. 
There should be an unfettered right to commute a portion of retired pay as a lump sum on retirement. Members should have the right to commute a maxium of four times the annual retired pay payable to them on retirement and this amount should not be subject to reduction either on grounds of the member's life expectancy or for any other reason. 
These are some of the more significant features of the scheme. The full proposals are set out in the report. 
The present legislation provides an elaborate system of gratuities, which in our view have contributed to complexity and have caused confusion about the purpose of the scheme. We recommend that gratuities should, in future, be provided as an ordinary condition of service and removed from the scheme. The  Chairman  has put this suggestion informally to  Mr Justice  Kerr. We consider that the Committee of Inquiry into Services Pay and Conditions might profitably examine the whole question of gratuities, and would suggest to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  that he refer this matter to that Committee. 
Assessment of invalids should, in our view, be undertaken by an independent assessment tribunal, and there should be provision for an appeal by an aggrieved person either to a court, on questions of law, or to an appeal tribunal which could substitute its own assessment for that of the first tribunal. Invalid pay should no longer be subject to suspension when the member's civilians earnings have reached two-thirds of the current equivalent of his pay at retirement. 
The Commonwealth Actuary prepared a report for the Committee explaining the financial and actuarial basis of the present DFRB scheme. We have included this document among the appendices to our report. We have concluded that a much simpler method of providing finance is desirable. We propose that instead of accumulating the contributions of members in a fund, the contributions should be used as needed to pay the benefits. Contributions should be paid to the Government, which should guarantee the benefits at the level proposed and meet any additional cost. Our reasons for proposing this course are set out fully in our report. 
Our proposals do not envisage a funded scheme, although the Government might wish to establish a fund to hold unexpended contributions and to meet its long term liability. The new scheme should be administered by the Department of Defence and the Minister for Defence should be the responsible Minister. It seems to us that there would be substantial administrative savings in having Service pay authorities responsible for the payment both of their active members and of their retired members and dependants. 
We have been very anxious to obtain estimates of the cost of our proposals. We asked the Commonwemalth Actuary for estimates of the cost of the present scheme compared with the cost of the Committee's proposals. The necessary information was not available to the Actuary when this request was first made, and in an interim report presented to Parliament last December it was explained that the Committee's Report would be delayed until this information was obtained. We have not yet received any satisfactory estimate of the emerging cost of the proposed scheme, but we would point out that the Commonwealth Actuary was also unable to provide us with an estimate of the emerging cost of the present scheme. The Committee would, however, like to emphasise that we believe that the contributions required, and the benefits provided, in the proposed scheme are reasonable, and that the cost to the Commonwealth will not be unacceptably greater than that of the present Scheme. 
The Committee has been very conscious of the importance of the defence forces retirement benefits legislation to the recruiting and morale of the defence forces. We believe the scheme we have proposed is fair and comprehensible, and will not impose any undue financial burden on the Commonwealth. We strongly commend the report to the Senate. 
 I join with the other members of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse in Australia who have spoken on this matter in the 12 months since the report was first presented to the Parliament. Like other members of the Committee, I am very happy with the acceptance that has been given to the report by the public and the authorities responsible for implementing its recommendations. I, too, appreciated the chairmanship of  Senator John  Marriott. It was a very difficult committee to control at times. We all had our own views on the subject. It was also very difficult to know exactly where to go in order to obtain certain information. But  Senator John  Marriott had the ability to keep everyone happy. He was also able to get before the Committee those people and organisations it wanted to interview. At the same time he kept the Press satisfied with progress reports of the Committee's proceedings. Because of the public interest in the subject the Press was naturally very anxious to obtain these reports.  Senator John  Marriott was an excellent  Chairman  in that respect. 
It is unfortunate and regrettable that some of us have not had the opportunity to speak on this report until 12 months after it was presented. The report has been accepted not only throughout this country but also overseas as being a very good one. I am pleased to say that most of the recommendations that were made 12 months ago have since been implemented by the various authorities, although some have yet to be implemented. I think most honourable senators will agree with me when I say that the most important thing to come out of this inquiry was the need to educate the public at all levels. The lack of knowledge of drugs and their effect on the human body is deplorable. I think the members of the Committee learned a lot about what they previously did not realise was happening. 
A drug is defined as any substance which when taken into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions. We all know that in the last 20 or 30 years many life saving drugs have been discovered. One which was used during the last war was morphine. It must have saved the lives of thousands of wounded soldiers. Yet morphine, when taken to excess or abused, is one of the biggest killers in our society. The Committee found that it is necessary to educate not only people of all ages, including the young, but also our medical fraternity. Many medical men do not appreciate properly the effect that their prescriptions can have on their patients. Consequently, one of the Committee's main recommendations was in this field. I understand that the National Standing Control Committee on Drugs of Dependence, which includes representatives of the Commonwealth and State departments of Health, has the matter in hand and that a considerable amount of money has been allocated for the purpose of education. But it is going to take time to train the necessary number of people to do the educating in the schools, throughout the medical profession and in the community generally. 
The fact that a committee was appointed to undertake an inquiry into drug trafficking and drug abuse and that it has presented a report to the Parliament before drugs have become a real problem in this country is something for which we should be thankful. There are lots of different drugs. 1 will not cover the whole area because it has already been covered by other members of the Committee. But I would point out that even what are regarded as minor drugs can have a detrimental effect if used to excess. I am referring to the analgesics, APC-type powders, aspirins and so on. Few people realise the dangers involved in the excessive use of those drugs. Eventually it is hoped to educate the people, not only through the medical fraternity but also by correct labelling, in the dangers of the excessive use of those drugs and the effects they can have if taken in conjunction with other drugs, such as alcohol. The Committee was concerned about this information not being available on the labels of those drugs - pills in particular - usually kept in the home medicine chest. I think that there is room for great improvement in this respect. 
I turn now to the controversial subject of the use of marihuana. This subject has been already discussed today. I wish to touch on it only briefly. Like  Senator McManus,  who spoke before me, I believe that the use of marihuana should not be legalised until more information is available as to its long term effects. But I do not think that we should just leave it at that. I think that authorities have the responsibility to determine where we go in the future with respect to the use of this drug. 
In the United States of America excessive use of this drug may force authorities to legalise it as the lesser of 2 evils. We must watch for this situation arising in Australia. Our answer to the problem at the moment should be the education of young people not to use marihuana. If we can persuade young people not to use it, and the drug is not used in excess, the problem ahead of us will not be great. If, on the other hand, the use of the drug extends as it has done in countries such as the United States, T believe that we will need to look at the problem most seriously. 
The older members of our society have always had a problem with youth, particularly when young people believe they are victimised in some way or other. When we were young we objected to our parents enjoying certain privileges that we did not have. Educated young people come to us and say: "We know the effects that alcohol has on people in the community. We know that there are 50,000 drug addicts in Australia, and alcoholics in institutions who are costing this nation $200m a year 10 maintain. We know also that it is estimated that approximately S800m is lost each year because of working hours lost, sickness and associated problems arising from the over-indulgence in alcohol by some people in the community. We have our little drug, marihuana. As far as we know, it has not caused any harm to anybody. Yet we are victimised, and you are not.' We know that a tendency exists on the part of young people to say: 'We are being badly done by. We will smoke this, whether you like it or not'. This is why I say that education rather than preventive measures is the way to try to handle the situation. 
As  Senator McManus  has mentioned, the problem of alcohol, tobacco and these other drugs which have been with us for many years is almost impossible of eradication. The United States tried prohibition in relation to alcohol, and we know where it ended up. The big problem with marihuana in the future, if it is to be excessively used and if it is to be an important avenue for underground operations, will be that it may be laced with other drugs such as heroin. This will happen if its distribution is in the hands of the wrong people. We all know that, whilst only a small proportion of the population may become or would automatically become addicted to drugs such as alcohol, everyone can become addicted to a drug such as heroin. These are the dangers that 1 believe the authorities must look at to determine what steps they will take in the future. I do not wish to say any more on the subject today. I know that our time is limited and that other speakers wish to debate this report. I am proud to have been a member of this Committee. I am pleased that its report was accepted in the way in which it was, particularly by the authorities. T also join with others in thanking John Marriott for the way in which he led the Committee. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows from a question asked yesterday by  Senator Poke.  The matter was referred to again today. Is it not a fact that any reduction in the overdrafts of wool growers, and thus a reduction in the interest payable, is of benefit to them? Is it also a fact that one of the purposes of the deficiency payments scheme was to ensure that wool growers would receive adequate remuneration for their product so that they would not have to go to banks and wool brokers for extra loans to cover their costs? 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health whether he agrees with the Pharmacy Guild of Australia that the wider distribution of minor analgesics - aspirin-type medicines - through supermarkets from next month constitutes a risk to public health? Is it a fact that (a) a number of popular brands of aspirin products have been available in supermarkets for some years and (b) the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse recommended against the sale of aspirin products being restricted to chemist shops only? 
 I am pleased to support this Bill. Unlike  Senator Keeffe,  I, am very happy to see that the Australian Institute of Marine Science is to be established in Townsville.  Senator Keeffe  spent the whole of his time rubbishing the project and everything aso.ciated with it. I believe there is a necessity for an institute to study all aspects of life in the sea. Other benefits and by-products will come from such an institute. There is also a need to protect areas of scenic beauty such as our Great Barrier Reef. When we develop the Reef for our own nation and our own people, particularly ils oil resources, we have to bear in mind the effects that an oil spillage or any other pollution may have on this area. We also need a better knowledge of the sea and how to use all the resources of the sea effectively. 
I am very pleased that this institute is being set up at Townsville for the simple reason that Townsville, as has been pointed out before, is a fairly large city which is situated pretty well near the centre of the Great Barrier Reef. With the university there, the necessary research can be undertaken in conjunction with the personnel who will be appointed to staff this institute. All sorts of arguments have been put up.  Senator Keeffe  immediately rubbished this proposal. He said that because the Greenvale smelter will be operating, the water will be polluted in that area and that prevention measures will not be effective. There is no reason in the world why acquariums have to be set up right at the mouth of the Herbert River or wherever the Greenvale plant is to be established. 
Aquariums can be set up anywhere, wherever they are required. A lot of private museums are in that area now and no doubt they will be of great assistance to the Institute. I particularly refer to Green Island and Magnetic Island. New resorts are being established further up the main part of the Reef north of Cairns, and we will see excellent resorts on places such as Lizard Island. When that development takes place there will be an excellent area where research can be carried out. 
It is necessary to carry out research on pests like the crown of thorns starfish.  Senator Keeffe  is like a lot of others -  Senator Georges  is another - who have been knocking the Queensland tourist industry for years. It is interesting to note that most of the Barrier Reef happens to be in 2 electorates held by the Labor Party, the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Pulton)  and the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  One only has to listen to what they say about the knockers of the tourist industry in their area, and  Senator Keeffe  would well know that he is not very welcome in either of those 2 electorates because he has been knocking the tourist industry there. 
One of the reasons for setting up the Institute of Marine Science is to track the migratory habits of the crown of thorns and other pests. If  Senator Keeffe  is allowed by the honourable member for Leichhardt to go into that area he will be able to visit the Reef north of Queensland where it has been rejuvenated. The crown of thorns starfish were plentiful there years ago but there has been a regrowth and the coral is better than it ever was. That is the opinion of people who have lived there for years and often go out to the Reef. 
You have had your say. 
Go and talk to the people at the resorts, the people who own Green Island and Marineland, and the people who own the underwater observatory. They have been on the Reef for years. 
I was explaining to the Senate that the Institute is being set up so that we can investigate the habits of these pests. We know that some resorts have been devastated, particularly by the crown of thorns. We know that if we are to build up a tourist industry in north Queensland, particularly on the Barrier Reef, we must carry out a great deal of research into these things. It is all right for people to say that they know that these things are a pest and that this, that and the other should be done. They say that machinery should be established to get rid of these pests but I point out that the Reef is 1,500 miles long and God knows how many miles wide and, it would be impossible to meet the cost of destroying a pest in such a big area. 
People interested in the tourist industry in Queensland have not been highlighting all of these things. I refer to the people who own Green Island and the Hayles organisation who protect those sections of the Reef to which they take tourists. During the tourist season they daily take a thousand tourists out to the Reef. They have been able to look after the Reef and show tourists various types of coral. Those people are not highlighting the points, as a lot of other people have been doing here, that the whole of the Barrier Reef has been destroyed by the crown of thorns and that it is a waste of time for anyone from overseas or the southern States to go there. We have to stop people saying that there is no coral left. 
Many people have the interests of north Queensland and the Barrier Reef at heart. We should set up something along the lines suggested in this Bill and use our resources. The so-called Save the Barrier Reef Committee is only a political band wagon.  Senator Georges  can go to the area if he wishes and if he is so interested in looking after the Reef he and his supporters can contribute to the endowment scheme that is associated with it. 
I visited Green Island 3 weeks ago. People in the tourist industry there still take people to the various little reefs that they took them to 6 years ago. Those reefs are in good order today. 
As I explained to you earlier, the crown of thorns went through there but the people looked after their particular section of the Reef. There is only a certain section of the Reef that people like to look at anyway. There is another interesting point which 1 suppose is associated with the setting up of the Institute.  Senator Keeffe  mentioned the Greenvale smelter and said that because of the ore to be treated there the waters will be polluted anyway. I suggest to members of the Opposition that they talk to the people who are setting up the Greenvale plant and get hold of a copy of the agreement that the Greenvale organisation has with the State Government. They will see what measures have been taken to ensure that there will not be the pollution that they would like to see. Those honourable senators who have been to New Caledonia and Noumea know what pollution is like there as a result of nickel mining ventures. It is interesting to note that the treatment plant at Townsville will be of the low heat type. It will be more like a water sluicing plant and therefore there will be little, if any, air pollution from dust raised at this plant. Also, there are hundreds of acres of land there on which spoil and waste material from the treatment plant will be spread. This will rejuvenate the land which is now mainly swamp. No pollution is expected from this plant. 
I am telling you to read the contract and relevant Bill before criticising in this place anything that the Queensland Government or anyone else does. The people of Queensland are well aware of the identity of the knockers who are trying to knock any development in north Queensland. J will not detain the Senate any longer,  Mr President.  I understand that there are other speakers and we are all endeavouring to complete the business before us. I repeat that the Institute represents a great advance for Queensland and I am pleased to see that it is being built at Townsville. I support the Bill. 
Will the Acting Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate what progress has been made by the Government in consideration of the report of the Joint Select Committee on the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Health. In the event of the suspected outbreak of foot, and mouth disease in Australia are there facilities here to determine whether it is in fact foot and mouth disease or would suspected samples have to be sent overseas? If the latter is the case, how long would it take for the result of such tests to be determined? 
1 direct a question to the Minister representing the postmasterGeneral. Is the Minister aware that the Australian public may be deprived of television and radio coverage of the Olympic Games, starting on Saturday, as a result of a proposed union ban? Does he regard this irresponsible action by the union as a blatant misuse of power to achieve monetary gain and a complete disregard of the rights of the Australian people? What does the Government intend to do about it? 
-I had hoped that this Bill would receive a speedy passage through the Senate. After all it is purely a measure to give effect to an announcement by the Commonwealth Government that it would transfer its 50 per cent shareholding in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea. If I were to reply to  Senator Keeffe  I would find it very difficult to stick to the terms of the Bill. I wish to say, briefly, thatI believe that every thinking person in this country is more than satisfied with what the Australian Government has done to bring Papua New Guinea to nationhood. This Bill is only a small part of the overall pattern. 

 Senator Keeffe complained about the fact that following the transfer the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea will not have a 50 per cent interest in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd. What has actually happened is the Commonwealth Government has transferred its 50 per cent interest in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea on the condition that upon the transfer of its shares to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea the other major shareholder in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd - Placer Development Ltd will arrange an amalgamation of all the other wholly owned Placer assets in Papua New Guinea with those of Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd. The effect of this transaction will be that the indigenous people will be given a say in a much more diversified company than the present company. From what I can gather the Australian Government's share, following the amalgamation, would represent only about 28 per cent of the whole investment but it is getting 35 per cent as a result of the adjustments which have been made. 
We should face up to the fact that even a nation like Australia has not been able to develop its own resources fully because it has not got the know-how and the finance to do so. The same situation applies to Papua New Guinea. Its financial resources and know-how are very limited. It is most important that the capital resources which Papua New Guinea needs should not be supplied by other nations. The resources should be supplied by Australia and not by another country which may have interests in mind other than the interests of Papua New Guinea. We have to assist Papua New Guinea to develop its resources and this Bill is a way to do that. The more that we and Australian companies can assist Papua New Guinea the better. The Territory can be given a part to play itself. 
Yes, this Bill is doing that. It is giving to the people of Papua New Guinea the shares which the Australian Government hold. It is up to the people and the new House of Assembly to negotiate with Placer Development Ltd for the rest of the shares. We have no say in that. We are handing over the shares which the Australian people own and that is what this Bill deals with. I ask honourable senators to stick to what the Bill says; never mind about going all over the countryside. When this agreement was negotiated the assets of Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd were considered to be worth about $2.3m. Let us face the fact that this agreement was negotiated before 9th May. By 9th May this year the Opposition was well aware of the facts of this agreement. In the last 3 months I had not heard of any opposition to it until the amendment was moved in this chamber tonight. Now the Opposition has moved, by the amendment, that the agreement should be sent back to the House of Assembly. For 3 months nothing has been said. Obviously the House of Assembly has been happy with the agreement. It was organised long before. Now, at this last minute, the Opposition wants to send the agreement back. What is the reason? The reason is, according to the Opposition, to look after the interests of Papua New Guinea. Or is it because of a certain election which is just around the corner? The Opposition is talking about a 50 per cent ownership. 
This Bill is clear cut. It was accepted in the other place once the details of it were completely explained to the honourable members. I do not see any reason why I should take up any more of the time of the Senate. Only a small amount, some $5m, is involved in the whole company, and 35 per cent represents the very small amount of about $2m. But this is very important for the future development of Papua New Guinea in which Australian companies and investment can assist. Let us face it, it is better for Australians to help Papua New Guinea to develop its resources than for countries with doubtful intentions to come in. I support the Bill. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Postmaster-General. Now that the Australian people are able to receive direct coverage of the Olympic Games, will the Minister inform the Senate whether in fact it was  Mr Hawke's  good offices which were responsible, as he has endeavoured to portray through the news media, or was it that the union, realising that it had abused its power by holding the nation to ransom, was concerned about the widespread public condemnation it would have received for its action? Has the union agreed to submit its case to arbitration? 
1 rise to support this Budget. Before going on with the main part of my speech 1 shall mention just a few matters.  Senator Gietzelt  made a plea in relation to 2 important issues, namely, unemployment and Commonwealth support for the States. In support of this he quoted from numerous papers and carried on for nearly an hour. I point out that we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the world. We have a well known English television interviewer out here, David Frost. When he was asked what he thought of the 2 per cent unemployment rate he said that in Great Britain it would be considered a luxury. Let us face it: At the present time we have unemployment. Honourable senators opposite always talk about unemployment but they will not do anything to stop the reasons for unemployment. One of the main reasons is the extravagant wage demands which have been made. Let us face the fact that many industries cannot pass on their costs. If there is a 25 per cent wage increase overnight what are those industries which cannot pass on their costs going to do about it? They have to do something about the employment part of their cost structure. What they have done in many cases is to put men off. This is something the Opposition has never been able to accept as a fact. If wages are too high one cannot expect employers to employ people and still maintain a price structure which is acceptable to the public. 
The honourable senator also went on about local government and payments to the States. As a member of a Party which believes in federalism and the States I find it quite extraordinary to have an ally on the opposite side of the chamber. Over the years the Australian Labor Party has been in favour of centralised collecting of money by the Commonwealth and even dispensing with the States. Here today we have an honourable senator advocating that all the funds in the world should be given to the States to spend. What is the situation? Today 52 per cent of all revenue collected is spent by either the States or local government. I presume that our friend on the Opposition side would like to see that amount increased to 60 per cent or 70 per cent. I do not know what figure he would like. If it is to be 60 per cent, that will do me. As a federalist and one who is against centralism I say: By all means give the States 60 per cent of all taxes collected to be spent in the State sphere. What is wrong now is that the Federal Government is responsible for collecting the money and the States which do not have the responsibility spend as it suits them, lt is up to the States to distribute in a wise fashion the funds which they collect and receive, lt is of no use to come along and blame the Commonwealth because an avenue such as public transport is in a parlous state. 
But it is not to discuss what  Senator Gietzelt  had to say that I am here. I am very pleased with the Budget. I describe it as a people's Budget. Everybody has gained something from it. Other honourable senators have particular matters on which they would like to speak. The medical care centres which have been set up in this Budget will help the pensioners. I believe that this has been a great advance. In education we have seen important advances in nearly every direction. There is an important omission as far as education is concerned and that is in relation to children in isolated areas. 
I accept the hear, hear' from all around the chamber. The children in remote areas of Australia are due for better treatment than they are receiving now. It is only in recent times that people have pushed this aspect. I know that the States, too, have a responsibility in this sphere because they control the education system. I know that the Commonwealth Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is sympathetic to the cause, lt is only a matter of the State Departments of Education and the Commonwealth Department of Education and Science getting together. I am sure that when they do we will see this anomaly in our education system rectified. I am pleased that expenditure on defence has not been cut back in this Budget. Even though we do not have the commitment in Vietnam which we previously had we are still prepared to spend money in this direction. This means that the Government is prepared to maintain a well trained and efficient defence force. I think this is most important. Also, a committee consisting of members from both sides of the House of Representatives recently brought in recommendations relating to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund and I understand that the Government intends to do something about them. That is another thing which will attract competent servicemen to our forces and help to hold them. I am pleased that the Government is facing up to its defence responsibilities. 1 think that the main point in this Budget is the recognition given to the private sector. This is an important departure from the principle adopted in other budgets since the war, or perhaps from the accepted pattern of budgets. 1 certainly hope it continues because I believe that the private sector has a very important part to play in the development of this nation. We hear a lot of talk these days about foreign ownership of our resources. We know that it is very difficult to achieve Australian investment in our resources. Australians are fairly limited in the amount of funds that they have to invest in our resources but I believe that this Budget will set the pattern for the future development of Australian resources by Australians. 
The Government has decided to reduce income tas. The 10 per cent reduction will mean that more money will be available to everyone in the community. They will be able to spend it on goods or services that they require or they will be able to invest it. The Government's decision to abolish the means test over a period of 3 years will provide another incentive to the public. People now will be able to invest their surplus money in shares of companies which are destined to develop this nation rather than to adopt the attitude taken in the past: 1 do not have sufficient money to tide me over in my old age but the money I have will preclude my getting the pension, so I will divest myself of my money or shares and retain only sufficient to make me eligible for the pension. The abolition of the means test will mean that these people, particularly those in middle age who do not have the responsibility of building a home or educating children, will now have money available and will want to know what to do with it. What, will they do with it? Abolition of the means test will mean they will be able to invest their money in long term return industries. 
Never mind the particular industries that  Senator O'Byrne  supports. I am talking about the development of Australia's resources. Probably the honourable senator would not know anything about that subject. These people now will feel that they can invest their money in companies or enterprises which will be to the advantage of this nation without jeopardising their chances of getting the pension later. The return from investments in such enterprises will help subsidise their pensions. I understand that the Minister for Air  (Senator Drake-Brockman)  has a statement to make to the Senate and I ask for leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
 I was referring to the second leg of the assistance being given in the Budget to the private sector, namely, the abolition of the means test. I had said that this would mean that people who no longer had the responsibility of building a home and educating their children would be able to invest their money in the national resources of this country rather than dispense with it, or part of it, so as to be able to qualify for the pension. This is a very good move. I believed in the past that perhaps we could not afford to abolish the means test for the pension. However, now that we are developing our national resources and are in need of funds from Australians, this is the best way of achieving that aim. A lot of people will be getting a pension who could afford to do without it, but at least it will be taxable. There are still many pensioners, however, who do not have a home of their own and are in need. The way to handle this situation is to give them indirect support in the form of concessions relating to health services and transport and a roof over their head. Help could be given indirectly to these people. 
The third arm is what happens to the people after they have invested in our resources their surplus money, the return from which will help to supplement their pension. What happens to it after they have gone? The reduction in estate duties and particularly in gift duty will help people to make up their minds in this regard because the moderate estates will be exempt from duty. Only a considerable estate will attract estate duty. 
I am speaking only of the Commonwealth. We have no control over the States. I am hoping that the assistance to the private sector which has been given by the Commonwealth in this Budget will not be eroded by the States, as has happened in other fields. When we have retired from certain taxing areas the States have often doubled their taxes in those areas. It is up to the people in the States to see that this does not happen. We are in a new era. We must face the fact that we have passed the stage when a few people own most of our resources. The nation has developed and today we have many thousands of people who have resonable means and who are subject to estate duty. By this Budget we are helping many thousands of people of reasonably moderate means. Things have changed from the old era when a few people owned the whole nation. That situation does not apply now. We must look at the present situation. Estate duty is an iniquitous tax which has done tremendous harm to our productive capacity. Properties and businesses that should have been thriving and productive have been thwarted by the heavy estate duties that have been placed upon them. 
Let us consider our future. I can see that we have 3 valuable means of developing our resources - a reduction of income tax, the abolition of the means test and a reduction of estate duties. I propose now to mention some of the most important things that will face Australia in future. One matter that has been mentioned lately is revaluation. 1 suggest that we must look at this issue very critically because our nation has been built up through exports. Let us face it: Every great nation has been a great exporting nation. A nation is like an individual home in that the prosperity of the nation or the home depends on the money that comes into it. We can all be self-supporting. If we chose to do so we could build our own homes, grow our own vegetables and do all these other things, but we would not be able to do them so efficiently as the people who have not only the qualifications but also the right situation 
Yes, and the experience to do them. The most prosperous homes in the community are those where the owners go out and earn through their own special abilities and employ experts to do the other work at home. This applies to nations also. One has only to look back through history to know that the great nations have been great trading nations. Those who support an upward revaluation of the Australian dollar forget this vital fact. They say that revaluation could bring prices down and it could mean that we will be able to buy imported goods more cheaply, but they forget that at the same time they could be doing untold damage to those who are bringing wealth to this nation. 1 refer to the export industries. I know that our primary industries are quite resilient and that perhaps in good time they could put away much of the fat and build up their equipment. Then when the bad times come they can live on that fat. In this situation they do not undertake improvements or engage labour other than to harvest their crops or to shear their sheep. But in the mining industry the situation is entirely different. If a mining industry is to be operative it must be fully operative all the time. It operates on a big turnover and a low percentage profit. 
Let us consider particularly the iron ore mining industry. I had the privilege of visiting an iron ore mining establishment in Western Australia. I was amazed to see a mountain full of iron ore miles away from anywhere, 180 miles from a seaport. The mining operation consisted first of blasting the iron ore and then putting it through crushers. It was necessary to build a railway line 187 miles long to transport the ore to the sea. Then it was necessary to build a port that would enable ships of up to 160,000 tons to load the ore for export. But all that the mining enterprise received for the ore that went into the ship was $7 a ton. Any member of the Senate who is conversant with transport costs within his own State, particularly railway freights, port charges and shipping costs, will appreciate the difficulty of transporting material 180 miles and loading it on a 160,000- ton ship for $7 a ton. As I said earlier, this industry operates on a very small percentage profit. 
All iron ore contracts are expressed in United States dollars. Admittedly most of our iron ore goes to Japan. It might be suggested that these contracts are open to review and that the Japanese should agree to an increased price, but unfortunately our competitors in iron ore are mainly South Africa and the South American States. On the last occasion when there was a revaluation these countries devalued their currency relative to the American dollar and this placed our industries in great difficulty. I invite honourable senators to consider what would happen to mining companies which operate on a 3 per cent profit margin if we revalued our dollar upwards by 6 per cent. The result would be that their profits would be gone. What does a mining company do in this situation? It must close down. It can leave its product in the ground, put its machinery into mothballs and remain stagnant, waiting until the world market price for its product makes it profitable to continue operations. 
Primary industries have been unable to do this. We cannot put sheep into mothballs; we cannot put cattle into mothballs; we cannot put wheat into mothballs; and we cannot put grass into mothballs. We must go on producing, even if we are producing at a loss. Although the wool industry operated unprofitably last year, we still had to go on producing. We had certain costs to meet, but still we had to go on producing because we could not do anything else with our sheep or wool. However, the mining industry can close down. I wonder what would happen to this nation if it were decided that it was unprofitable to continue mining operations and to close down this industry whose exports are worth about $700m. The Commonwealth Government would have two alternatives. It would have either to take drastic measures to overcome the loss of income or subsidise the mining industries in order to make them profitable. 
They have devalued; that is how they have got on. There is a lot of talk about overseas ownership. There are 2 large mining companies in Western Australia. How did one of those companies get over the last devaluation? It injected another $200m into its operations in order to double its production. It doubled its production so that its overhead costs would drop. What did the other company do? It was a company in which the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd and Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd had an interest. It could not follow suit. So it had to live with the situation. There is no doubt that if the Australian dollar were revalued another 5 per cent tomorrow that company would be out of business. I hope that the people of Australia will be able to support the ownership of their resources. 
It should be remembered that the Leader of the Australian Labor Party came out and said publicly that he was in favour of revaluation of the Australian dollar. 
He said that on television. The honourable senator saw the programme and so did I. Of course the members of the Australian Labor Party all say that their leader was only expressing a personal opinion. Can anyone imagine that any leader of a party - an aspiring Prime Minister - would come out on the eve of an election with a proposition on a controversial subject on which he did not have the support of his party? He must have had the support of the majority of the members of his party, otherwise he would have been in trouble for putting forward a proposition that was unacceptable to them. Either he has done the wrong thing by his party and should be kicked in the pants or he has expressed party policy. I am not flying kites in this respect. It is inconceivable that a leader of a party and an aspiring Prime Minister would act in that way if he did not have the support of his party. So it is no good saying that it is a matter of personal opinion. Only a couple of members of his party who represent rural areas have come out and opposed his stand. 
I do not care whether revaluation is the policy of the Australian Labor Party. That is up to the members of the Australian Labor Party to decide. What I am saying is that I am against revaluation. I think it is important to be sure just who is going to be affected by a revaluation of the Australian dollar. It is a joke that members of the Opposition use revaluation as an argument to contain inflation. Let us face it, the major factors causing inflation today are the extravagant wage demands of the unions and the request for a 35-hour week, which members of the Labor Party support. Those factors alone will undo everything that revaluation will achieve. It is wrong to think that inflation can be curbed just by an act of revaluation while at the same time plans go ahead for a 35-hour week and there is support for the extravagant wage claims that are made. 
The bread and butter industries of this nation are not only the manufacturing, primary and mining industries but also the tourist industry. The tourist industry could be Australia's largest industry in the future. Our friend from the Gold Coast would know that. But what would happen to the tourist industry if the Australian dollar were revalued? Our friend from the Gold Coast would know also, if he has travelled overseas, that one usually travels on a set budget and therefore one wants to know in advance what one's fares and accommodation will be. A potential visitor to Australia who knows that he is going to get fewer Australian dollars as a result of revaluation than he originally expected will either spend less in Australia or be deterred from coming here. So, the tourist industry throughout this country could be vitally affected by any revaluation of the Australian dollar. Let us face it: the cream of the tourist industry in Australia in the future will be the overseas visitors. Therefore we should not do anything which would deter them from coming here. 
Yes, I will support that if necessary. 
The honourable senator knows that the policy of my Party is to place everyone in a reasonable situation but to make sure that those people who produce the wealth of the nation are not disadvantaged. The Australian Country Party has always stood for all sections of the community and let us not forget that. 
The ACTING  PRESIDENT  - Order! The honourable senator should be heard in silence. 
That is all very well. The honourable senator knows his views on these matters. There are all sorts of ways in which the present difficulties can be overcome. We know that our overseas reserves are very high. We also know that a lot of money is coming into this country. A lot of the money that is coming into Australia is being brought in by Australian industries as loans to expand.  Senator Gietzelt  gave us a great example today of the expansion of the Australian economy when he pointed out that tax revenues would rise despite the fact that the Gov ernment has reduced the personal income tax rates. There are certain ways in which one can control the amount of money coming in. One is to reduce interest rates and another is to reduce tariffs. There could be an easing of the restrictions  imposed on  Australians investing overseas. The Government has already implemented a proposal in this respect. We have heard a lot about overseas companies taking over Australian companies. We have the situation where the Australians who have received money as the result of these takeovers cannot invest in the parent company because of restrictions. These are things that can be attended to. Some of  the money  that is coming into this country could be reinvested overseas. It is not hard to get the money in but one cannot gel it out under the present circumstances. Within the last week or two the Government eased certain restriction on money going out. That is one other way in which the situation of having an embarrassing amount of overseas funds could be handled. 
It should be remembered that other than  Dr Patterson  and  Mr Grassby  no Opposition member has been prepared to say that  Mr Whitlam  did not represent his views when he commented on revaluation of the Australian dollar. 1 know what the attitude of members of the Labor Party is to revaluation. They think that prices will be reduced as a result of revaluation because overseas goods coming into Australia will be cheaper. Of course that would be to the detriment of the manufacturing industries which we have been building up since the war. This is something which has to be brought home to them. If overseas goods were to flood into Australia to the detriment of our own manufacturing industries what would happen to the employment situation? Everything the Opposition does and everything it advocates - whether it be a 35-hours week, increased wages or revaluation - is aimed at reducing employment opportunities and increasing unemployment. All it does is bark about unemployment while advocating steps that will aggravate the situation. 
There are a few other matters I would like to discuss about the Budget. I knowthat there is no mention of a continuation of the beef roads scheme in the Budget. 
This scheme is due for review in  a  short time. Naturally now is the time for the different organisations- 
We have heard about it being time; that things should have been done years ago and that they will be done after the next election. All organisations are concerned about the beef roads scheme because planning for the scheme has to be done now. I certainly hope that the Federal Government will continue to support the scheme because it has helped not only the great beef industry in the underdeveloped areas of northern Australia but also the great mineral resources that have been discovered and are being developed. Also, we must not forget the importance of these roads to the defence of this nation. Let us face it: We people who live in the northern half of Australia are well aware how close we are to neighbours not far away. People in the south may not appreciate this fact, but we certainly appreciate it. Certain areas in north Queensland are closer to Djakarta than they are to Canberra. We appreciate the fact that we are close to Asia. The defence issue is important and beef roads play an important part in the defence of this country. 
I am pleased that in this Budget assistance to certain aspects of primary industry has been maintained and increased. The overall amount has been reduced but it is quite obvious what has happened here. Last year the wool subsidy scheme was in operation but now we are in a position where prices of wool and demand for wool are such that we will not have to subsidise the wool industry again. So there is a saving of $50m in that direction. 
I did not know that overseas buyers ever considered the fact that a federal election was to be held in Australia when they paid for wool. The honourable senator can accept the fact that the Australian Wool Commission took on the overseas buyers and overseas interests. It was prepared to stockpile wool here, but people overseas were not prepared to stockpile it because of the monetary position. Had it not been for the efforts of the Wool Commission - which incidentally members of the Opposition opposed - during last year this great industry would have been in real trouble. But because of the operation of the Wool Commission and the fact that the Government was prepared to guarantee a price to allow- 
There were no revaluation troubles. Wool did not suffer the same revaluation troubles as the mining industry did because, as I have pointed out previously, the mining industry was concerned with United States dollars, and we revalued against the United States dollar; we did not revalue against other currencies. Nearly all our wool is bought by countries other than the United States, so revaluation did not affect the wool industry as much as honourable senators opposite would like to believe. In fact, our biggest buyer of wool, Japan, appreciated the yen against our currency by 16 per cent. So it helped the wool industry. 
No. lt was not our revaluation but revaluation of the Japanese yen that helped the wool industry. We came out of it reasonably well. Everyone was screaming about what the wool industry was going to cost the taxpayers of this nation but this great industry, which since the last war has brought $26,000m into this country, received only S50m in support over the whole of that period in order to help it over difficulties. The profits from the sale of the wool that the Wool Commission had in store probably will, in effect, reduce that considerably. 
When we talk about price support no one ever mentions secondary industries. That is a different matter. People say that tariff is not the same thing as a subsidy or a bounty. But these things are the same. What amazes me about members of the Labor Party is that they will attack subsidies or bounties but will say nothing about tariff protection. 
Let us suppose that the world market price for a certain product - be it a bale of wool or 2 cwt of butter - is SI 00 and the world market price for another manufactured commodity, such as a wireless set or a tape recorder, is $100. There are 2 ways in which we can protect the Australian manufacturers if, because of our high cost structure, he needs to sell his product for $150. We can do it by giving that industry $50 in the way of a subsidy, so that the Australian market price is still $100. The Government or the taxpayer gives the industry $50 to bring the return to the manufacturer to $150. Alternatively, we can impose a tariff of $50 on the imported product, in which case everyone pays $150 for the article. What amazes me is that our friends opposite who are supposed to represent the working class will not accept the fact that under a subsidy scheme everyone pays $100. The man on a low wage with a big family does not pay very much tax and will pay very little subsidy but the rich man will pay a lot more because he pays more tax and the money for the subsidy comes out of the tax poo). 
I will make my own speech;  Senator Mulvihill  can make his speech later.  1  am explaining to honourable senators opposite the difference between a subsidy and tariff protection. What happens under tariff protection is that everybody in the community - whether he be a millionaire or a worker on the lowest margin - still pays $150 for a product, whether it be a wireless set or something else. Why do honourable members opposite always rubbish subsidies and bounties and say nothing about tariff protection? It is very interesting that the wool industry has brought $26,000m into this country since the last war and 't has received only $50m in subsidy. We have heard that when colour television 's introduced into Australia we will have to pay $1,000 for an Australian set, yet we could buy an equivalent Japanese set for $130. Primary industry, and the wool industry in particular, have never asked for protect-.on of that kind. Who is to pay for this protection? Do not forget that when colour te.evision is introduced into Australia everybody - whether he be a millionaire or the lowest paid worker in the community - will have to pay up to $1,000 for a colour television set. 
The point I am making is that this is a great Budget for the Australian community and for the private sector of the community. The producers of this nation - and this includes the workers in every industry which is producing the wealth of this nation - will receive tax deductions. Everyone will get a go. People will be able to play their part. I am concerned mainly about the millions of people in the middle and lower income groups who comprise the majority of the workers of this nation. They will have the bulk of the money to invest in the sorts of things about which I have been speaking. So I am quite happy that the Budget has been framed in this way. I am not one of the knockers, the prophets of doom. After listening to the speech which was made a short time ago by  Senator Gietzelt  one wonders whether, if he were a migrant coming to this country, he would ever settle here- considering the great woe that he wailed around the chamber about this great Australian economy. I am very pleased that certain aspects of primary industry are to be given assistance. The Australian Democratic Labor Party will support me when I say that long term loans should be made available to primary producers through a rural bank. We have been advocating this for years, although we have not yet been successful. I know that the DLP, too. has been advocating it. We believe that we must provide some long term finance for rural industry which will continue to produce export income for this nation under difficult circumstances. Because of droughts and ups and downs in prices which face rural industry, it needs this sort of overall insurance. In the past primary producers have had to obtain finance from fly-by-night operators - people who were not really concerned with banking. They even had to go to hire purchase companies to tide them over periods of difficulties. That situation is not good for a nation dependent on its great primary industries for its export income. People need something to tide them over periods of difficulty. There is no doubt that the drought bond scheme introduced about 3 years ago has greatly helped primary producers. 
They have their own ideas about this sort of thing. If they were let loose there would be employment everywhere because everything they advocate would lead to unemployment. I commend the Treasurer and the Budget. I trust that at the forthcoming election the people of Australia will recognise the benefits of the Budget. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for the Army. Has the Government decided on a site for the establishment of the proposed Army marine base? If not, will the Minister give some indication of when an announcement - is likely to be made? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
Does the November-December 1970 issue of the Fabian Newsletter, contain an article written by the Member for Riverina, stating that the Australian Labor Party has drawn on the experience of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and other countries to prepare a programme for socialist agriculture in this country. 
Does the Minister have any knowledge of this subject and have any representations been made by producer organisations along the lines referred to in the article. 

 Senator DRAKE-BROCKMAN - The 
Minister for Primary Industry has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
Yes. 
No. 
I welcome the 3 Bills now before the Senate. They represent a positive step m the direction ki which the Country Party, which I represent, has been heading for a long time. We hope that they represent the start of what in the end will be the abolition of probate duty, at least in the Federal sphere. It is interesting to note that, as a result of the alleviation being provided in the 3 measures before us, something like half the people who up until now would have been subject to Federal estate duty will now be exempt from it. It is also interesting to note that the rural sector, which pays something like 6 per cent of the taxation revenue, pays something like 40 per cent of the estate duty revenue that is raised. I think that  Senator Milliner  asked earlier where those figures came from. 
It comes from the statistics supplied to us each year by the Commissioner of Taxation. It is most unfortunate, as has been pointed out by  Senator Lawrie  and others, that in the rural sector properties have to be a certain size if they are to be viable - that is a word commonly used these days - or profitable. If people faced with probate duty have any commitments to financial houses or are in debt to any extent, the only thing they can do is borrow more money if possible and hang debt around their necks for many years or sell part or all of their property. In many cases they cannot sell even half their property to pay probate duty. This applies particularly in a State such as Queensland where most of the land is under leasehold tenure. 
We are gradully converting the system. At present, in the case of land held under leasehold tenure, blocks cannot be split up and therefore the person concerned has to sell his block or secure funds from other sources if that is possible. We have reached the stage in Australia where we have unlimited resources, particularly in minerals, and we have the potential to manufacture and to develop. However, we have not the finance, or individual people have not the finance, for Australia to be developed by Australians. That is why we hear screams today about there being so much foreign ownership of our resources. I believe that we are taxing the very people who could supply the money for the development of our resources. We are imposing death duties and so on and we are taxing the people who would be most likely to invest in Australian resources. One generation of a family after another has to pay probate duties and estate duties and each succeeding generation has to start off from scratch again, whereas they should be in the position of being able to expand, if not into land industries, then into the mining industries, and thus develop our resources. That is why I believe that in the Federal sphere at least we should gradually retreat from the imposition of estate duty. 
I refer now to the position of the States. Whether the States are to pick up the tab, as someone has said, is a matter for the electors in the particular. States. The States control such things as land laws and other laws pertaining to property. It would be much fairer at least if taxes were levied according to the laws that operate in the State rather than that we have a Federal body administering laws which can be completely unfair to individuals in one State when compared with individuals in another. That is one of the arguments I use in favour of the Federal Government retiring from the estate duty field. 
Then we must consider the matter of gift duty. It is quite true, as  Senator Lawrie  said, that once the Commonwealth retires from the field of estate duty there will not be much need for the law relating to gift duty. However, I point out that there are many young people starting off in life who need money, if only to buy a home or to start a business. The decision to raise from $4,000 to $10,000 the figure above which gift duty applies will be of great assistance to those who want to help young people start in business and to get them to the stage of being productive Australians long before they otherwise would be. I think it is essential in this growing country of ours, with all its potential, that we see that those people who are prepared to develop our resources are given the opportunity to do so at the earliest possible time. 
I support any move to alleviate the payment of death taxes or gift duty. The amendment moved by  Senator Byrne  is an addendum to one Bill. As with similar amendments in the past, I fully support the amendment. I hope that on this occasion more honourable senators will support the amendment. I do not think there is any need for me to cover the ground that has been covered so well by 

 Senator Byrne and  Senator Lawrie  in particular, except to say that I support the Bills. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labour and National Service a question. Firstly, what percentage of the unemployment figures can be directly or indirectly attributed to unauthorised, unwarranted and irresponsible strikes? Secondly, as Queensland, with a Country Party-Liberal Party Government, has a low unemployment rate and the 3 Labor controlled States the highest, is the current wave of industrial lawlessness in Queensland aimed at altering this embarrassing situation? Thirdly, will the Minister ask the Minister for Labour and National Service to do all in his power to assist the Queensland Government to maintain industrial sanity in that State and prevent a handful of communists and fellow travellers from sabotaging large new industrial developments particularly at Gladstone and Townsville? 
-I support the Bills before the Senate. The main purpose of the Wool Industry Bill is to amalgamate the Australian Wool Board and the Australian Wool Commission into what is to be called the Australian Wool Corporation. I believe that this is another step along the path that has been taken in recent years towards introducing more efficiency into this great Australian industry. Of course, it will mean that now the important avenues of research, marketing and promotion will come under the control of one body. After all, these matters are inter-related. Marketing has been the function of the Australian 
Wool Commission since the inception of the floor price scheme, and it is important that this aspect should be tied to promotion and research. 
The wool industry has been the most important industry to Australia. Since the Second World War it has earned more than $26,000m in overseas income and it must have been responsible for a great deal of the development that has occurred in Australia. Apart from last year when deficiency payments amounting to $52m were given to the industry, the industry has seldom been a burden on the Australian taxpayers. In fact, in some areas during the better times in the wool industry there was a loading on transport costs and so on. Consequently, I think that the wool industry has put more into the coffers of the various governments than it has ever taken out. Last year, as a result of the operations of the Australian Wool Commission and the deficiency payments scheme, we were able to maintain the industry in difficult times. Of course, recently the price of wool has risen and we are still wondering at what level the price will settle, what price wool should command in the world market. I do not think that anyone can give a definite answer to these questions. 
Some people say that because of inflation the prices of all sorts of products have increased and that the price of wool should be a lot higher than it is today. But of course we cannot compare the price of wool with the price of motor cars, washing machined or something like that. The price of wool has to be compared with the price of its competitors, synthetics. It is interesting to note the price of synthetics and what has happened with synthetics over the last 10 years. Not only has the quality of synthetics been improved, but also in most instances the price has been halved since 1962. I refer to polyester fibres which are probably the main competitors of wool at the present time. In I960 the price of polyester fibres in the United Kingdom was 120 pence per lb and in 1971 it was down to 67 pence per lb. In 1960 the price of polyester fibres in the United States was 136c per lb and now it is down to 62c per lb. In Japan the price for polyester fibres was 884 yen in 1960 and it is now down to 253 yen per lb. This gives some idea of the prices of the competitors of wool. 
If we were to proceed on that basis alone we might say that the price of wool at the present time is too high. But I believe that there are other factors involved, the most important of which would be the consumers themselves. The consumers, particularly in the garment trade, are a pretty fickle lot, and we never know from one day to another what their choice will be, what type of fibres they will choose. At the present time there appears to be a trend back towards wool among most of the consumers in the world. Then we run into another interesting factor concerning wool. At about the end of the last war wool accounted for between 16 to 18 per cent of the world's needs for apparel fibres. In other words, we could produce between 16 and 18 per cent of the world's requirements for apparel fibres. Although wool production throughout the world has increased from that time to this, it has not increased at the same rate as has the demand for apparel fibres and. consequently, wool now accounts for less than 8 per cent of the world's needs for apparel fibres, and as time goes on it will account for even less. 
We have to consider whether wool will become a prestige garment material and whether people will be prepared to pay more for wool because it will be fashionable to wear wool as it will be so darn difficult to acquire. We do not know the answer to these questions. We have seen in the garment trade that people will pay a lot more money for something that is fashionable. Consequently, we in Australia have to look at our wool industry. We have to introduce more expertise into it and co-ordinate the whole of the industry. This is what the Bill is actually doing. We are setting up a Corporation of 9 people who will be selected by the Australian Wool Industry Conference which is, one might say, the parliament of the wool industry. The  Chairman  of the Corporation will be appointed by the Government and there will be on the Corporation another Government nominee and 3 other people with special expertise - no doubt from the manufacturing side and perhaps the financial side. 
They have not been nominated as yet. This is a matter for the Government to decide in the future. Once we set up this Corporation I believe that it will be the prime body to decide the future of the wool industry, to recommend to the government of the day just what it believes are the methods to be taken to improve the efficient handling of the clip, whether it be an acquisition scheme or some other kind of scheme. We have heard a lot about acquisition schemes, but there are so many acquisition schemes and so many variations of them that it is very difficult to determine what is what. One thing we do know is that the Corporation, as was the case with the Wool Commission, will have power to acquire wool if it is necessary, if the Corporation considers that it is in the interests of the industry to do so or if certain operations are taking place which are not in the interests of the wool industry. If there is a concerted effort for private buying or an attempt to obviate will be able to step in. I believe that this is an ideal situation. Rather than set up further committees - and we have had plenty of them, all recommending different things - let us have experts who will run the wool industry for us, handle the whole of the promotion, research and marketing, because they will have the expertise and inside knowledge of all the operations of the industry. Let those people decide and recommend what changes should be made. 
Australia produces about 30 per cent of the world's wool, and 94 per cent of Australia's production is sold overseas. So there is not much point in our telling the manufacturing side of the industry, which is nearly all located overseas, what sort of wool it will buy, how it will buy it and what price it will pay. I believe that this has to be done by negotiation, through the Wool Corporation, with the manufacturers in particular. There are 2 groups of people really concerned in this, the producers and the manufacturers. Unfortunately in the past too many others have been involved in the process. I believe that we will reach the situation where the manufacturers and the Australian Wool Corporation will be able to get together and work out, to their mutual benefit, the prices, the methods of selling and so on. If wool is to be in such short supply, if 'he demand for apparel fibres is to increase and the wool industry is not able to produce its share of the market, then we will run into difficulties in trying to supply the markets throughout the world, and this is another reason why the Corporation will have to work in close co-operation with overseas manufacturers. We have heard a lot about acquisition schemes. If we socialise this industry and if some body takes the whole lot of the wool, how will the wool be sold? Will it be sold by tender? Will we say to one manufacturer in Britain: 'You cannot have any wool this year; we will give it to somebody else'? I think that there has to be a lot of co-operation. 
It is still all sold under the auction system. 
Sitting suspended from 5;45 to 8 p.m. 
When the sitting was suspended I was discussing the Wool Industry Bill. I had said that once the new corporation is formed it will have the job of looking after the future of this Australian industry, particularly in regard to research, promotion and marketing. I believe that as a result of the expertise which this corporation is expected to have from 4 members selected by the Australian Wool Industry Conference and others of special qualifications, it will be able to decide what will be in the best interests of the industry in the future. I do not believe that we should tie it down with time limits as suggested by the Opposition's proposed amendment. This is all part of the job which the corporation will have to perform. 
Another matter which I mentioned earlier is our problem for the future to supply sufficient wool for the world demand for apparel fibre. We could reach a situation in which many manufacturers overseas will be unable to secure wool, though they are able to do so now through the auction system with the price at times jumping all over the place. We may have to select areas and supply wool to them at a fixed price. But probably at some time in the future the corporation will have to look at the possibility of processing wool part of the way or all the way for apparel garments. The manufacturing field in Australia suffers from the fact that it does not have the throughput to compete with other nations; this is particularly so in the electrical industry and the automotive industry. Nations like Japan and the United States can produce equivalent articles at a much cheaper price than ours because of their tremendous turnover and throughput. It may bc possible for manufacturers in Australia to process a certain proportion of our wool, perhaps even up to 50 per cent of production, by setting up a big industrial complex and processing to that stage. However, that is a matter for this corporation to investigate. 1 commend the Government for having set up the corporation for I believe it will bring a great deal of good not only for the wool industry but for the nation as a whole because the wool industry is so important. 
I understand that the Wool (Deficiency Payments) Bill is to be discussed in conjunction with the Wool Industry Bill and I should like to make some remarks about it. I am very pleased that the Government gave an assurance that it would guarantee a price of 36c for the next 12 months. This has had a particular effect in Queensland where about 70 per cent of the State's sheep are shorn in the first  2i  months of the financial year. Had the Government not given this assurance early it is possible that many wool growers, not knowing what the future market held for them or what the price of wool would be, were thinking of shearing a second time in the one year in order to make sure of the deficiency payment. Of course, this would have disrupted the whole of the industry in Queensland. But once the price of wool went up at auction and the Government gave an assurance that it would bring down this Bill during this session, that complication did not arise. So I congratulate the Government on giving that assurance. It is quite possible, indeed most probable, that no deficiency payments will be made as a result of the present price being realised for wool and what we may expect for the rest of this season. I support both Bills and I hope that they have a speedy passage. 
I give  notice of the following contingent motion: 
That contingent upon the reappointment of the Legislative and General Purposes Standing Committees, there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the following matter: 
The role of ANZUK as a result of the change in Australia's defence establishment in South East Asia. 
My question to the Minister for Customs and Excise concerns the ban on the export of kangaroo products. I ask the Minister: What were the reasons for imposing the ban? Were the State departments dealing with primary industry consulted about it? Who recommended that the ban be imposed? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. It refers to an answer he gave in reply to a question from  Senator Webster  in which he said that the qualification for voting in the referendum on the merino ram export embargo was 1,400 kilos consigned to a registered broker. May I take it from that that wool sold to a private buyer will be excluded? 
I have much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by  Senator Byrne.  As a good Queenslander - unlike  Senator Keeffe  apparently in this debate, anyway - I am prepared to support the rights, responsibilities and privileges of the Queenslanders in the Torres Strait islands. I think we have to take all this emotion out of the debate. We have heard from 2 Western Australian senators who live 3,000 miles from the scene and who have probably never been there. All we heard from the 2 Western Australian senators is what has been acknowledged between the centralist Government in Canberra and the Government of Papua New Guinea. The rights of the people concerned in these Torres Strait islands have never been considered by either of those  2  senators. What has been done by the  2  Queensland senators who should be supporting this motion, and who know they should be supporting this motion as Bill Fulton was prepared to do? All they have done is throw a bucket over the Queensland Government which is trying to do the right thing. I support Joh Bjelke-Petersen on this issue. Those people in the Torres Strait have just as much right to be protected by the people of Queensland from the centralist Government in Canberra as any other citizen. I just wonder, as  Senator Lawrie  wonders, whether these people would have been given the same sort of treatment had they been white. All we hear from  Senator Wheeldon  is that these people in Papua New Guinea have a right to decide the future of the people in the Torres Strait islands. 

 - Senator Wheeldon said that the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government can negotiate a line. In other words, he says: 'Forget about the people in the Torres Strait.' The honourable senator never ever mentioned them. 
They had to bc considered. In other words: 'We will shift you where you want to go.' Let us get down to tin tacks. These people have lived on these islands for hundreds of years. They are entitled to the protection of the people of Australia. They are Australians and they are entitled to the same protection as any other Australian. It is interesting to see this new Labor Government with a new look looking after the interests of other people. In particular, we have seen how it races off to China. An individual has just come out of China; I refer to one Francis James. There was not one word of protest to the People's Republic of China about the condition in which he came out of that country. I wonder what would have been the attitude of this Government had that person come out of Rhodesia or South Africa in that condition. 1 wonder how many protesters would have been marching up and down the streets of their capital cities. 
 Let us get back to the Torres Strait islanders because they are the people with whom we are concerned, not anyone outside Australia. There are all sorts of issues to be considered. Not only have the people on the islands to be considered. Queensland in particular recognised the problem from a security point of view. It is all right to say that we have an emerging nation in Papua New Guinea. As  Senator Lawrie  mentioned quite rightly, only 30 miles away is another nation - West Irain - which is a part of Indonesia. Who knows whether in the long term that country will be  a  friendly nation. This is something of which we are not sure. Is not the first consideration to look after your own country, your own people and protect the people in the northern areas in particular who need protection, who live close to these countries and who know the possibilities of the future? All of our shipping going to Asia from north Queensland ports has to travel around the north of Australia. Those ships go very close to Papua New Guinea. Does anyone suggest that we should give away these islands, these waterways, so that the only shipping lane we will have is close to the coast inside the reef which in most cases can be traversed only by small ships? This is what this Government is suggesting we should do. As someone has mentioned, the Government will give away the defences of this country. It will put us in a position where we will be asking people to come and take us if it is here for much longer, and I hope that it will not be. 
We will be back on the other side of the chamber before very long. The people of Australia have already woken up to what is going on here. The emphasis on foreign policy is not the only thing that has been changed. Giving away part of our territory to another nation is only one issue. It is meant to create goodwill around the world, to give the impression that we  are  not an imperialist nation. Who the devil do we have to impress? Do we  have  to impress the Russians, the Chinese and all the communist countries that wc are not imperialists? These are the most imperialistic countries in the world today. Let us become Australians and forget about trying to impress other people that we are great fellows. We have to be realistic about this. 
The proposition put forward by  Senator Byrne  is quite simple. It is not emotional. It simply states that in considering the transfer of any Australian territory, whether in the Torres Strait or anywhere else, the rights of the people and the views of the people concerned must be consulted. That is one point in all the argument used by the Government tonight that has been ignored. Not once have Government senators said: 'We will accept what the people want'. They have said: 'We will consider them.' After it has negotiated with Papua New Guinea and after it has come to an arrangement then it will consider these people. How is it going to consider them? Is it going to say to them: 'You have an option. You can either become part of Papua New Guinea or become part of Australia. If you want to become part of Australia you have to shift camp. You have to uproot yourselves and come over and be Australians - leave your land behind.'? That is actually what the Government is saying. 
What we are saying is that if these people want to remain Queenslanders and Australians we will make sure that they remain Queenslanders and Australians. When did this become an issue? In all the debates that I can find in the Papua New Guinea Parliament, on no occasion has there been any great support for a change in boundaries. T defy any honourable senator to identify one debate in the last few years in the Parliament of Papua New Guinea in which Oliwale has received major support. It has not been an issue. It was a non-issue until the present Prime Minister of this country, before he became Prime Minister, made it an issue. Now he is stirring up the people of Papua New Guinea who are close to these islands. It would be interesting to take a census of some of those people to find out whether they want a change made because many of them do not have a lot in common with the other people in Papua New Guinea. As long as they have what they consider to be friendly people alongside them they will be happy. 
If you stir up a hornet's nest in a country, the responsible people in that country have to start to make a noise. If it had not been for the intervention of  Mr Whitlam  this would still be a non issue. Why go and drag up the matter before it is raised in Papua New Guinea? It has been said that the Premier of Queensland has been going to the islands and stirring up strife. All he has been doing is going up to meet the good Queensland constituents. He has gone up there to meet them and to find out their views. What responsible member of the Government has gone up there to find out the people's views? Has  Mr Whitlam  gone up there? Has any other member of the present Cabinet been up there to discover the views of the people of the Torres Strait islands? I was up there before the last Federal election and this matter was an issue then. As a matter of fact,  Mr Bill  Fulton, the honourable member for Leichhardt, followed me up there. He said: 'No. we are not going to give them away'. The people said: 'That is all right, then,' but they were very concerned about the matter. We did nol have to whip them up. They were whipped up long before any of us went near the place because they are concerned that their islands will be taken away and given to a nation about which they are not happy. They know that it is not united and that anything can happen. But they are satisfied with the solidarity and the way of life that we have in our State of Queensland, lt would be interesting to see what  Mr Bryant  does in relation to these issues. I know that he has been all over the country in a VIP aircraft. But some time 1 would like him to go up to the Torres Strait islands. He was good enough to write to these people and give an assurance that he would support whatever views they had. If they wanted to remain Queenslanders he would give them support. That is stated in the letter read out by  Senator Lawrie.  We would like him to go up there. We will be very happy if he is going to back up the letter that he sent to these people last July. But let people go up there. Let members of this Government go up there and see the feeling for themselves. There has been too much of shooting from the hip ever since this Government came to power on 2nd December. It has made decisions without consulting the people and without knowing the facts. Many of the decisions were made without knowing the facts. I can assure you,  Mr President,  that they will regret many of the decisions before this session is over and before we, finish explaining to the people what bad decisions they were. We have had a one-man Government and a 2-man Govern ment. Last time it was a two-man government. 1 guess that next time it will be a oneman government and it will be for a longer period if we leave the present Government in power long enough. This is the problem we have with this Government. It will not go and determine the facts. The facts of this matter are that the people of those islands, to a man and to a woman, want to remain part of Queensland. What right has any Federal Government in Canberra to ignore the rights of these people and give these islands to another nation? It may be an emerging nation and a nation in which we have much interest. It is a nation we are helping and one which we hope will take its part in the community of nations. But what right has the Federal Government to say that we will give part of a sovereign state away as a sort of a goodwill gesture? The people themselves have been ignored. I have much pleasure in supporting this motion. I have no doubt that the people of Queensland will be looking to this States House to ensure- 
They will be looking to the 10 members of this State's House anyway to see that the interests of Queenslanders, and most particularly Queenslanders in the north, will be preserved. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Has the Minister initiated an inquiry within his Department to ascertain the loss of income to exporting primary industries resulting from the decisions, firstly, to revalue the Australian dollar in December lust and, more recently, not to devalue along with the United States dollar? If the answer is yes, will the Minister make the findings available to this House7 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate which Federal Minister will be leading the Australian delegation to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development to discuss the new International Sugar Agreement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the increasing number of primary industry leaders who have indicated that they are desirous of meeting the Minister and discussing their problems with 'him, will the Minister inform the House when he expects the pressure of his office to ease sufficiently to enable him to agree to their requests? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Defence seen a statement made by the Prime Minister at his Press conference in Djakarta on 22nd February in which he said, in relation to the Fill aircraft: 'We have paid for them, so we might as well take them. We cannot trade them in'? Have these aircraft been paid for? What is the final price? Has the Government approached the United States authorities with a view to trading them in? 
Does the Minister representing the Postmaster-General agree that telephonic communication for people in remote areas is a necessity, particularly if they live 100 miles or more from a doctor? Does the Minister also agree that the cost of erecting telephone lines for automatic exchanges to Postmaster-General's Department specifications is prohibitive for individual subscribers when any distance is involved? 
Are the criteria for the erection of telephone lines by the Postmaster-General's Department in rural areas in the future to be based on profitability and not on need? 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry agree that compensation for revaluation losses sustained by primary industries will be based not on actual losses incurred but on the inability of those industries to withstand the onslaught of Government action? As the Bureau of Agricultural Economics is the most competent body to determine the profitability of the numerous primary industries will the Minister initiate an inquiry through the Bureau into the effects of revaluation on our export primary industries so that reasonable consideration can be given to these industries before they suffer irreparable financial damage? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry, refers to the answer which he gave to  Senator Webster  in which he said that in all 86 submissions had been made for compensation but only 15 had contained details of losses. I asfa Does this mean that the other 71 submissions will not be considered for compensation because they did not contain figures or details of losses? 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral whether he will agree that the operations in Australia of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation have been severely restricted in securing information from overseas countries, particularly non-Communist countries, as a result of the raid on its headquarters in Melbourne. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General and it concerns this disturbing information he received on his visit to the offices of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation in Canberra and this document. Did this information com cern terrorists? Were they left wing terrorists concerned with matters other than the visit of the Yugoslav Prime Minister to Australia? 
Has the Minister for the Media or his Department given consideration to the use of satellites for the transmission of television programs not only for entertainment but also for educational and other purposes? 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Last week the Attorney-General in answer to a question asked by me said that the particular document he discovered at the Canberra regional office of the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation did not concern left wing terrorists but related to matters additional to the visit to Australia of the Yugoslav Prime Minister. I now ask: Were any activities of any of the present Cabinet Ministers or senior officers of the Labor Party referred to in that document? 
We have heard much discussion tonight on the justification for the setting up of the Joint Committee on Prices. I can well understand why the Government wants to set up a committee of the Parliament at this stage. It knows darned well that inflation will run riot in this country within the next few months. 
It is running riot now and it will run in all directions very shortly. Of course, there is no doubt about the reasons it is doing so. The Government has had to look after its friends outside of this House who have, control of it. It has promised these people all sorts of things, including the 35 hour working week which will result in a 10 per cent to 12 per cent increase in prices. It does not matter how the Government goes about awarding a 35 hour week, unless productivity is increased accordingly by 10 per cent to 12 per cent, there will be an automatic 10 per cent to 12 per cent increase in prices. Yet the Government wants honourable, senators on this side of the House to be the bunnies who join- 
-The Government will make use of the increase in wool prices. It will make use of the $ 1,000m which will come into this country in overseas exchange as a result of the increase in wool prices. The honourable senator knows darn well that if it was not for the previous Government which supported the wool industry there would be no wool being produced today to bring in the $ 1,000m. But, of course, the present Government will make use of it. Honourable senators opposite opposed everything that the previous Government tried to do for the wool industry to keep it on its feet during the tough- times, but now that the wool industry has overcome its difficulties and now that it can bring in this money, of course the present Government will get the benefit. Not only will it get the benefit of the S 1, 000m that will come into this country in overseas export income but also it will get the great advantage of the increased taxation that will be levied on woolgrowers despite the fact that most of those people have got themselves into severe debt. It will take them years to get themselves out of this trouble, and while they are getting themselves out of this trouble this Government will have the benefit of the increased taxation received as a result of their increased income. Everyone will get on the bandwagon and everyone will try to get his share of the cake. Tonight we have been hearing about this cake and how it will be divided. 
The interesting thing, of course, is that the Government brings into this chamber a suggestion to set up this joint select committee What does it do? It says that the committee will be comprised of 2 senators from the Government side and one senator from the Opposition side of the chamber. There are 3 Opposition parties in this place and 1 do not know how we are all to share the one position that has been allotted to us. What the Government is aiming at in proposing the setting up of this prices justification committee is obvious. When it gets down to tintacks it will not be the manufacturers who will suffer as a result of this investigation? It will be the primary producers of this country. Ever since this Government got into power on 2nd December it has been giving the country people of Australia the greatest hiding they have ever had in their lives. The setting up of this committee is just another example of what the Government will do to the primary producers of this nation. The Australian dollar has been revalued, and we know the problems that has caused our primary industries. They have had to face one thing after another, and now the Government wants to set up this Joint Committee on Prices. How long will the investigation take? As one honourable senator suggested, it probably will be sitting for months. The Government knows that honourable senators can afford only limited time to sit on committees. It knows the score about how long the investigation will take, and all the time it will  be hiding behind this committee saying: 'We know that there is inflation in this country. We know that it is increasing at the rate of about 8 per cent but we have set up a committee of the Parliament consisting of members of all parties to look into this matter*. 
Debate interrupted. 
 We are supposed to be debating a 30- page statement on Croatian terrorists which was delivered in this chamber last week. Many ministerial statements have been delivered in this chamber in the past. I can understand that any Minister might want to investigate some particular facet of his administration and to bring down a statement in this chamber at a later stage. We would debate such a statement in the normal way. But the statement currently under consideration is different. Why is it different? The Senate has taken a fortnight - last week and this week - to debate all the ramifications of this statement. The statement was not presented by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  in the first place in the discharge of his duty as Attorney-General. The statement is not aimed at presenting a case against terrorists but it is aimed at discrediting the former AttorneyGeneral and the previous Government. 
Since the statement was brought down all sorts of things have happened. At question time in this place we have interrogated the Attorney-General in an effort to obtain information, and that is the main reason why question time has lasted for so long for so many days. We have not been given the answers which we normally would expect to find in a statement such as the one presented by the Attorney-General. After the events of the last fortnight one could well ask just what all this is about. How can an experienced parliamentarian and lawyer like  Senator Murphy  get himself in the position in which he finds himself today? Obviously the statement was merely a smokescreen for other activities to defend his raid on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation to look for certain documents which so far we have not been able to identify. There has been a great deal of questioning in this place but we have not been able to find out what is in particular files. The Press was able to get hold of some information, but the Minister said that he did not know who had leaked it or how it got out. But that is all we have at this stage. There is little doubt in my mind that people throughout the community must be wondering what were the reasons for this raid on ASIO, after which this statement was brought down. Was it to try to get files on Croatian terrorists because the Prime Minister of Yugoslavia was to visit this country and the Government members believed that his life could be endangered, and therefore they must do everything to maintain his security? 1 find it very hard to believe that a step such as the raid on ASIO would have been undertaken for that reason. More likely it would be that some of his friends in the Labor Party are endeavouring to get him to go and get certain files that may concern some of his colleagues because-- 
I am not saying that about anyone in this House. I said friends and colleagues', and colleagues can be outside, can be anywhere. There have been other acts of terrorism in Australia and no doubt our police forces have files on people who have operated in violent demonstrations - and there is little doubt in my mind that that was the main reason for this raid on ASIO. I would say that the whole exercise has not brought much credit on the Minister himself or on the Government or on this Parliament. Australian citizens have been accused publicly in this Parliament of crimes of violence without being able to defend themselves. We saw the operation in Sydney last weekend when some  80  homes were raided and people were pulled out of bed in the middle of the night to explain themselves. We heard of only a few being arrested, not for crimes of violence but for being in possession of such things as firearms and so on. 
And gelignite. Well, what about gelignite? Thousands of primary producers in this country have firearms on their properties for one reason or another. There are gangs employed by the road-making instrumentalities in the States, such as the Main Roads Department, and there are earthmoving contractors operating in the back country, all of whom need gelignite to blow up rocks. 
Well, it may not be kept in magazines. But I am saying that one could find in many homes and in many places throughout this nation people in possession of such things as firearms and gelignite. 
It depends which Slate one is in; that is another point. These are the sorts of things which are disturbing the population today. Apparently it is all right for a lot of other people from other nations to form themselves into organisations because they do not approve of the Government of their former homeland. But whenever organisations are associated with a communist nation such as Yugoslavia - in this case Croatian organisations - they are not allowed to have views of their own, views contrary to the Government of that nation. There are many governments throughout the world that people here do not approve of. I should imagine - I notice that  Senator Georges  is just leaving the chamber - that many do not approve of the present Greek Government. That does not mean that anyone who does not approve of such governments should not voice his disapproval. These are the things that rather disturb me, that a certain attitude is taken in regard to communist-controlled countries overseas. This present Government believes that people who object to the governments of those countries are terrorists, or at least are people who should be discredited. 
I will not go through all the details of this matter. We have heard  Senator Murphy  accuse  Senator Greenwood  of not carrying out his duties, and we have heard  Senator Greenwood  in reply, ft is interesting to note, however, that in all that has occurred in the meantime,  Senator Murphy  has had ample opportunity to bring to trial these people whom he said  Senator Greenwood  had not brought to trial and therefore had not done his duty. We could go on for hours talking about this. We would have to go through all the files, those that have been tabled here and those that have not been tabled, to get to the bottom of the whole question. What disturbs me about this whole operation is the effect it has had on our security service. Every nation needs a security organisation and I believe that ASIO as a result of the raid in Melbourne undertaken by the Attorney-General has been dealt a body blow. What organisation of a similar type in the world today would be prepared to give information to ASIO knowing that at any stage its secret documents and their sources could be divulged publicly by being tabled in the house? What informant or what individual who may have the security of this country at heart is now prepared to give information to ASIO knowing that it can be tabled in this House for public scrutiny? How can one expect ASIO again to operate as a viable force and as an important part of the security of this nation? 
A statement has been made, and this Government seems to support it, that there should be an amalgamation of the Commonwealth Police and ASIO. Let us look at this situation. A security organisation exists to receive information. It has no power of arrest. It cannot arrest citizens - all it can do is receive and disseminate information. 
Well, whoever they decide should have it. In this case the Prime 
Minister of the nation. A law enforcement organisation such as the Commonwealth Police Force is not usually served with this type of information but it does have the power of arrest. If the 2 organisations are amalgamated, what have we got? We have got the very basis, of the Gestapo of Germany - or, what is probably more to the point as far as this place is concerned, the OGPU in Russia - whereby information concerning people ca,i be obtained from any source, after which those people can be arrested and subjected to a!! sorts of intimidation. From that stage, of course, one goes to the next stage at which people are intimidated and silenced. You have a situation in which the instrument is running the country and silencing the nation. I think that this, more than anything else, must disturb this nation. Last week-end we saw some of this type of thing in operation when these early morning raids were carried out on the homes of people. 
I have had some disturbing information from my area up in north Queensland where 1 know a lot of the people in Dimbulah and Mareeba. I have no doubt that there are people there who should be investigated. But I have heard disturbing accounts from Australian citizens who have come from Croatia many years ago. They are respected citizens in that area who have been subjected to all sorts of inquiry and intimidation. 1 will make it my business in the next parliamentary break to meet these people  and  see what is going on up in that country. As has been stated, there are about 200,000 Croatians in Australia. In many cases, they are migrants who have been victimised in their homeland. They have come to Australia to be good Australian citizens. We realise that there are only a few who may be taking the law into their hands. Unfortunately, this Government appears to tell the whole of those 200,000 people thai they could be suspect. I do not think that this is the sort of situation we want to continue in this country. 
The honourable senator will have his turn to speak in time. It is interesting to note what has been said by honourable senators in the Opposition.  Senator McAuliffe,  who just resumed his seat spent most of his speech telling us about what happened to his colleagues and friends in Brisbane when their headquarters were bombed. 
They are. He spent most of his speech talking about them. 
 Senator McLaren  is defending him. While this motion that has been moved by  Senator Withers  on behalf of the Opposition may be a severe one, certainly it is one that I will support. I think that what the Attorney-General has done in the whole of this last fortnight and what he did before, in particular his attack on  Senator Greenwood,  have been completely unjustified.  His  attack on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and what has happened to 'that organisation as a result of his raid indicate to me that he is not a fit man to hold the position of Attorney-General or to be in charge of the security of this country. Consequently, I will support the amendment moved to the motion that the Senate take note of the statement. 
Is the AttorneyGeneral aware of a statement made by the Minister for Works in this chamber last Thursday during the debate on Croatian terrorism in which he said - this appears on page 865 of Hansard: 
While neither this Government nor the previous Government may have had evidence on which to base prosecutions - it could well be that  Senator Murphy  did not have any evidence before the police visits to homes in Sydney last week-end - there was knowledge of the existence of a group in Australia. 
I ask the Attorney-General: Did he have clear evidence concerning the occupants of these homes before the raids took place, or were the police used, as  Senator Cavanagh  implied, to raid these homes in the hope of obtaining evidence? 
When the debate on the proposal for the establishment of a joint select committee on prices was interrupted last Tuesday I was saying that included among the membership of the committee were to be 3 members of the Senate, 2 of whom were to come from the Government side of the chamber and one from the Opposition. As there are 3 parties on the Opposition side of the chamber in the Senate it is quite obvious that all Opposition parties would not be represented on such a committee. Because an inquiry into prices would involve an investigation of areas of interest to the Australian Country Party, I believe that the membership of the proposed committee should include a representative from this chamber of the Country Party. Therefore I move the following amendment to the amendment moved by  Senator Cotton: 
At end of proposed amendment add the following modification - 
At end of paragraph (2) add - "and one  Senator nominated  by the Leader of the Australian Country Party in the Senate" '. 
If that amendment were carried it would enable one of the 5 members of the Country Party in the Senate to be a member of the proposed committee. As I have said before, the proposed committee is to inquire into a very important matter. It would be quite obvious from an examination of most of the commodities that would be looked at by such a committee that the producers of our primary products could be vitally affected by the results of its investigations. Imaginewhat could happen if, for instance, the Government were to decide that the price of meat in Australia is too high. Our producers are operating on world markets and are selling at world market prices. They have been building up their markets overseas. There is now a shortage of meat on the world market. Our producers want to supply meat to their markets. It is necessary to ensure a continuity of supply to those markets to which we now sell meat in order to retain outlets for any surplus meat or beef that we produce in the future. The people who will suffer most from any idea of placing an embargo or restriction on the export of meat products from Australia in order to drop the price of meat in this country are the producers. I believe that the Country Party must be vigilant to ensure that the primary producers of this country are allowed to continue to supply their markets overseas and that restrictions are not imposed on them. I support the amendment moved by  Senator Cotton  on behalf of the Opposition. I hope that the addendum I have moved on behalf of the Country Party will receive the support of the Senate. 
Will the Acting Minister for Primary Industry bring to the notice of his colleague the Minister for Primary Industry the unanimous decision of the Australian Wool Industry Conference that the limited sale of merino rams should be continued but that if a referendum is to be held it should be confined to merino breeders only? Will the Minister also convey to his colleague the absurd situation of giving a vote to the breeders of polwarth, zenith and corriedale sheep as they have a vested interest in maintaining the embargo, the reason being that such breeders are able to export rams which, because of their close relationship to merinos, are able to command high prices while the ban exists? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Have the leaders of the island communities in Torres Strait requested a visit to the islands by the Prime Minister or any other Minister of the Federal Government in order to discuss the border issue? If so, what was the reply? Did the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs contact the leaders in Torres Strait prior to his recent visit? If so, what were their replies? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that it is proposed to have the naval patrol boats based at Cairns refitted or reconditioned at southern ports rather than at Cairns where provision has been made for this work to be done? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate of the reasons for taking this action? 
 I wish to speak briefly in this debate on the report presented by the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and 
Defence. Having been fortunate enough to be one of the members of the Committee which carried out this inquiry, I wish to give a few of my impressions.  Senator Carrick  has covered a great deal of the ground in dealing with various aspects of Japan. The Committee was concerned with a nation which is rapidly becoming one of the top industrial nations of the world. As  Senator Carrick  pointed out, it will be a key nation in the maintenance of peace in this part of the world, namely, the South East Asian and Pacific areas. This is so mainly because of its location but also because of the type of people and number of people in Japan, as well as its tremendous industrial and defence capability. Japan is vitally concerned with peace because it lacks the essential raw materials needed for its industries and must obtain them from other parts of the world. It is vital to Japan's existence that the sealanes and airlanes remain open. Therefore it has a vested interest in keeping the peace in the area that surrounds it. 
Of course. Australia is interested in Japan from the point of view of trade. Because of the great interest that is taken in trade with Japan the Committee was able to obtain the. views of some of the top industrialists in this country. I think it was most important that we obtained their views and from my point of view - I believe this is the view point of other members of the Committee - their evidence was very enlightening. This trade relationship that we have with Japan is vital to us and vital to the Japanese. It is a matter which requires a great deal of study. Both nations agree that there is a necessity to diversify our trade because we are becoming more and more dependent on one another. While this is being recognised by our industrial leaders, our exporters and also the Japanese importers, it seems to me that this trend is increasing year by year. 
When we compare the percentage exported to Japan with our total exports of various products we realise how evident this trend is. For example, 87 per cent of all the iron ore exported from Australia at the lime of the Committee's inquiry went to Japan. Ninetyfive per cent of our copper went to Japan, 83 per cent of our coal, 54 per cent of our bauxite, 41 per cent of our wool, 66 per cent of our prawns and 99 per cent of our sorghum. Of course, the export of sorghum is only a recent innovation because it is a product which we have not exported a great deal previously. If we look at Australian exports in the light of the part they play in total Japanese imports, we find that Japan buys 88 per cent of its beef from Australia, 52 per cent of its mutton and lamb, 98 per cent of its oats, 89 per cent of its wool, 39 per cent of its iron ore and 55 per cent of its bauxite. 
There is little doubt that as we develop our mineral resources and as the demand increases throughout the consuming countries of the world for our primary products, we will see even a greater demand from Japan for our products, particularly since the Japanese Government appears to be lifting some of its restrictions as to what the Japanese can buy, thus allowing them a great deal more freedom to purchase overseas goods. Japan will turn to Australia more and more to supply these goods, not only because we have the capacity to supply most of them but also because of our proximity to that country. In this way we feel that a closer association with Japan will develop in all fields, not only in relation to trade but also in relation to foreign affairs. By means of our assistance to Asian countries in particular, we can play a great part in this area of the world. Japan has the capacity to play a very important role in assisting the underdeveloped nations of South East Asia, and we have the capacity to assist them by supplying primary products. 
I have been pleased with the commendation that this report has received from business people and academics not only in Australia but throughout the world. I have pleasure in reminding the Senate that a great deal of the praise is due to our  Chairman, Senator Sim,  our  Deputy Chairman  at that time,  Senator Drury,  as well as the other members of the Committee and the Committee's staff. They did a tremendous job in organising the appearances of the various witnesses before the Committee. There is no doubt that the wealth of information that we were able to obtain from these people is responsible for the production of this report. I commend the report to the Senate. 
I, too, want to support this motion because, as a north Queenslander, I am interested in this matter, particularly on account of North Queensland Engineers and Agents Pty Ltd.  Senator Byrne  has explained to the Senate what this family company has done in that area. I want to go a little further and say that this company, which employs 360 men, not only is in shipbuilding but also covers heavy engineering and many other fields including chimney stacks for our sugar mills. It has been able to operate and tender for the building of a ship of the size of the 'Straitsman' without a Commonwealth subsidy - and to tender at a much lower price than others. In all its commitments it has been able to operate profitably and has really given a lead to the shipbuilding industry of this country. 
The point that concerns me is that statements have been made that the ship is not seaworthy and that it is not suitable; yet it was designed by one of the world's leading maritime architects and was approved by the Department of Shipping and Transport as being able to operate this service. Of course, R. H. Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd, which has been operating it, did go broke. We know that many people go broke, and for various reasons. That is not to say that the ship concerned was responsible for that company going broke. I believe that, had R. H. Houfe and Co. Pty Ltd - I think the management admits this - operated in a different way and given a little more personal consideration to the operation of the service, it would have been successful. 
We have plenty of free enterprises that have been successful and plenty that can go down the drain. But we always end up with the successful ones. That is the important thing about free enterprise as against government enterprise, because with the latter we never get another choice. 
The more I read about and interest myself in this matter, the more I feel that there are people who have other reasons for wanting the 'Straitsman3. Either they want to buy it at a greatly reduced price or they want it for some other reason. I feel that the company that built the 'Straitsman' has built a very good ship. 
From what  Senator Rae  said, there is little doubt that there are differing views as to the projected future of the trade. One of the arguments used was that the ship was too big for the trade. Yet I think there are two or three ships operating that trade at the present time and doing the work that this one roll-on roll-off ship could do. But it has been stated that it is too big for the trade. It has been said to me that it is only a matter of a short time and doing the work that this one roll-on such that it would be able to operate effectively and efficiently. I think it is necessary to inquire into all aspects of this matter. I am particularly interested because this firm in northern Queensland has been very competent and has operated efficiently. That a ship that is seaworthy and has been designed for the job should be rubbished by certain people - only certain people- - - 
It has been said by certain interests who do not want it to operate. 
All right. Everyone is giving me advice in this matter, but I believe that an inquiry is necessary to straighten out all these matters and to see whether in fact this ship is capable of doing the job efficiently. It was built by this firm to the specifications that were required for the job, and that is why I support the motion. I believe that we need an inquiry into this matter. I feel strongly about this because, as  Senator Byrne  has mentioned, this firm has done a tremendous job in northern Queensland. It employs 360 men. 
Hang on. It is in question because the whole future of this company is at stake. This is a family company and not a company into which overseas interests have been pouring money. It is an ordinary family company which started from nothing 20 years ago. What family company of this nature could afford a gigantic loss of something like $180,000? 
I am not saying that the Commonwealth should come to the rescue. I believe that this company should have a fair go. It has built a ship and its whole reputation in relation to the product it turns out is in question. 
It is in fact. 
It is as far as I am concerned because maritime experts around the world have maintained that the ship is capable of doing the job. 
That is why I want the inquiry. I want to make sure that it is capable of doing the job. It is seaworthy, and I do not want to see outside influences preventing it from operating. I support the motion for that reason. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labour. Is it a fact that the Minister for Labour stated on television that Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd was a much more successful company than its balance sheets fed people to believe? If so, will the Minister obtain from the Minister for Labour the facts on which he based his statement and will he make the information available to the Parliament. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Prime Minister on 13 th March, in answer to a question on rural finance, state that a submission from the Minister for Primary Industry and the Treasurer was before Cabinet and that he expected a result within a week? Did the Prime Minister, in answer to a question on the same subject yesterday, state that the matter was still before Cabinet? Has the Minister seen a report in today's Press that Government sources explained that the question had been delayed because of improving liquidity in the rural sector and the pressure of other business? I ask the Minister: Does this reflect the Government's complete disregard for the rural sector, which was evident in the policy speech delivered before the election and the decisions that have been made since the election on 2nd' December? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that the Government has removed many of the restrictions on trade with certain communist countries? If so, has the Government given  consideration to the effects which large quantities of imports may have on manufacturing industries and the workers in those industries? What safeguards does the Government intend to introduce in this matter? 
 I rise to speak on behalf of the Australian Country Party. Honourable senators on this side of the chamber support the endeavours of the Australian Democratic Labor Party to establish the proposed committee but not for the reasons that some members of the Government would have the Senate believe. We refute suggestions that the inquiry by this committee will take the form of a kangaroo court or an inquisition. I believe that such a suggestion is an insult to the Senate. I have been a member of this place for 5 years. In that time I have served on 3 select committees. I have been a member of various committees which have conducted inquiries into a number of matters referred to them. I believe that all members of this Senate when sitting on a Senate committee behave in a responsible manner. 

 Senator Turnbull who has moved an amendment to the motion hit the nail on the head, 1 believe, when he said that  Senator Townley  as a member of the proposed committee would be fair.  Senator Townley  would not represent either the Opposition or the Government. He would adopt a fair approach. Surely that is the type of attitude for which we are looking. We do not want this committee to be stacked one way or the other. Let us look at the proposed composition of the committee. The Government will nominate 3 senators. The Government has 26 members in the Senate. One member of the committee will come from the Liberal Party which has 21 senators in this place. The Country Party will nominate one member of this committee. One member will come from the Australian Democratic Labor Party and one member will be from the Independent senators. As the composition of the Senate is 26 Government members and 34 other senators, surely a ratio of 4 to 3 in favour of non-Government senators, spread over the 4 groups- 
It is 26 to 34. 
Yes. 
The Government with 26 senators will have 3 members on this committee and the other 4 groups represented in the Senate, a total of 34 senators, will have 4 members on the proposed committee ls that not fair enough? No one has suggested whom the  chairman  will be. This is a matter for the Committee to decide in the normal way Senate committees elect chairmen following their establishment. I want the public to understand that fact clearly. I for one would not support any inquiry which took the form of a witch hunt and which specifically sought to prove certain things. Let us face the Fact that the public at large has been disquieted by what has occurred in this affair. It is the dutyof the Senate as the House of Review and the States' House to do something about this matter. 
The Opposition has given the Government every opportunity to take action. We suggested that it appoint a judicial inquiry to investigate this matter. The Government has done nothing about that suggestion. Although we gave the Government the opportunity to appoint a judicial inquiry, it has taken no action in that regard. So, we have approached the problem in this way. Our proposal is a fair one. It is quite obvious that the Government does not want anything to do with this matter. If the Government has something to hide in this respect, obviously it would not want anything to do with an inquiry into it. But, if the Government has- nothing to hide, what are Government senators complaining about? 
Unfortunately, in Australia today, if one attacks the former friends and allies of this country - those who have the same type of democracy as Australia has - one is applauded. We need only recall what happened in response to the remarks of 3 Ministers of the present Government when they attacked the United States of America and its  President.  But, if one attacks a communist country, one is considered to be a terrorist. That is the situation that has arisen in this country today. We wish an inquiry to be held into the whole affair. Security is most important to any nation. Australia's security service has been destroyed by the raid conducted by  Senator Murphy  on the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation. Let honourable senators have no doubt of that fact. Can honourable senators name one nation which would supply any information to our security organisation knowing that that information would be tabled in this House? Can honourable senators imagine any Australian citizen being prepared to give information to our security organisation knowing that that information would be tabled in the Senate? This is one of the reasons why we seek this inquiry. We want to ensure that the whole of this dirty affair is cleaned up. 
A great many migrants have settled in Australia. They have become very good citizens. We know that some migrants may be involved in this matter. The Government says that  Senator Greenwood  has protected them. I object to the claim by the Government that the Opposition has sought to establish this committee to protect terrorists in Australia. If the Labor Party feels that there were terrorists in Australia during the office of the former Government and that it was protecting them, as it is now the Government it has the power to charge those people. 
Yes, but the present Government has had to admit, as  Senator Greenwood  stated, that not sufficient evidence is available on which to charge those people. 
Of course it is true. Where have charges been laid against these people? Recently 80 homes of new Australians were raided. We have not seen many charges resulting from those raids. Every new Australian who comes here from a communist country now is under threat. These people may disagree with the policies followed in their home country and decide to migrate to Australia because they have been told that it is a democracy, a country in which they can live in freedom. I have talked to a number of migrants, particularly migrants in north Queensland where many new Australians live. They are most disturbed by events that are occurring in Australia today. This is one of the reasons why my Party supports the proposed inquiry. In the whole of his speech tonight,  Senator Murphy  sought to make out that we were setting up a type of court merely to try him. Let honourable senators opposite face the fact, as I said earlier, that we offered the Government the opportunity to appoint a judical inquiry. I do not know who will be elected  chairman  of this committee once it is appointed. The  chairman  still could be a Government senator. 
Well, you read it. 
Well, it will not be your friend,  Chairman  Mao. The  chairman  will be a senator elected by the committee. If  Senator Turnbull  is correct in what he said,  Senator Townley  will be an independent and free member of the committee. If that is so, obviously  Senator Townley  will have a say in the election of the  chairman.  He may feel that a Government senator should be appointed  chairman.  Let honourable senators opposite not try to fool the public that this inquiry will take the form of a kangaroo court established for the purpose of putting  Senator Murphy  on trial. The Senate has appointed some excellent Senate committees. The public at large has accepted the findings of those committees and has realised that those committees have been unbiased in their inquiries. 
We have allowed the Government to have the majority on standing committees. 
If the honourable senators reads the Standing Orders he will find that select committees are supposed to consist of 7 members. They do not say that the Government has to have a majority. We agreed that the Government have a majority on standing committees, and in most cases we agreed-- 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Did the Prime Minister state, on 12 April 1973, that he would explain Australia's foreign policy during his forthcoming visit to London. 
Will the Prime Minister inform the Parliament whether the Australian Government has been shocked by the attitudes adopted by former friends and allies toward Australia, due to the shift in this country's foreign policy. 
Has no statement on Australia's foreign policy yet been made to the Parliament; if so, is the failure to do so in any way connected with the rough treatment that the Government's statement on United States' bases in Australia received from the left-wing  of  the Australian Labor Party. 
Docs the Prime Minister's proposal indicate a new trend in Australian politics, whereby major decisions affecting this country are made overseas, and not in the Parliament. 

 Senator MURPHY- The Prime Minister has provided the following information for answer to the honourable senator's question: 
I am not aware of the statement to which the honourable senator refers. 
, (3) and (4) As I mentioned in the statement on 1 May about my recent overseas visit (Senate Hansard; pages 1169-1171), I hope to make a comprehensive statement, later in this Parliamentary Session, on the broad perspectives of the Government's foreign policy. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. As it is now some months since the Minister announced that there would be a referendum of wool growers to determine the question of the merino ram embargo, will he inform the Senate what steps have been taken to conduct the referendum and who will be eligible to vote? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. As it has been suggested that the marketing of exports of primary products would be handled in future by the Department of Overseas Trade rather than by individual producer organisations, and bearing in mind that there is at present a world shortage of many of these products, will the Minister give an assurance that traditional lucrative markets built up over the years will not be undermined by  Dr Cairns  in his enthusiasm to negotiate sales of our products to China? Will the Minister ensure that the producers concerned, who own the products, are fully consulted before any agreements are made? 
 I want to say at the outset that I oppose on 2 main counts the principle of lowering the 20 per cent tolerance to 10 per cent. I oppose it firstly on the ground of the impracticability of operating on a '10 per cent basis. The Government has introduced this legislation under the guise of one vote one value. If it really believes in the principle of one. vote one value, why has it not brought in a system whereby there is no tolerance at all? The obvious reason for a tolerance is to ensure that it is not necessary to have an electoral redistribution after every election or maybe twice within the life of a Parliament. We must have some stability in our electoral system. The population density is shifting all the time. The other point is that in order to develop the nation on sound lines it is necessary to ensure that the remoter areas, particularly those areas from which the primary production of the nation comes, have adequate representation and a say in the national Parliament. 
There is no doubt why the Government has brought in this measure. It is not because the Government believes in a 10 per cent or 15 per cent tolerance or no tolerance at all but because the Government is itching to have a crack at changing the electoral boundaries and no redistribution is justified in any State except Western Australia at the present time. It wants to sort them out so that, as other members of the Opposition have already said, it can set itself up in office for years to come. The Government knows that it does not have as firm a grip on the Treasury bench as it would like. The Government is rushing the nation into socialism. This is just another part of its plan. 1 wish to speak for a while on the subject of one vote one. value. One of the drawbacks in a democracy is that, being a numbers game, the interests of minority groups are not protected. It is necessary to build a mechanism into a democracy to ensure that minorities get a say. The situation could arise in any election in this country in which, say, 2 parties were vying for votes and where one party got 51 per cent of the votes in every electorate and the other party got 49 per cent. Although 49 per cent of the population felt that the party for which it voted should be in government they would, in effect, have no representation whatsoever. That is why it is necessary in a democracy to build in some protective mechanism. That is why we have in this chamber in particular equal representation from all of the States. That enables the less populous States to have a say in the governing of this country. 
The situation could arise where Sydney and Melbourne, because of their populations, could dominate and control the House of Representatives. While representation in that House is on a population basis, there is some similarity between the interests of people in the country areas of Queensland and people in the country areas of New South Wales. The interests of those people can be protected if they have sufficient representation. The interesting point is that if we allocate a large amount of money for Sydney, nearly everyone in Sydney benefits. But if we allocate money for Albury-Wodonga, does that mean that the people in Mt Isa or in Tamworth will benefit from it? When a preponderance of the population is concentrated in one area, as in our big cities, the people in that area get the advantage because of the numbers and because of the situation with representation. There are so many members to represent their interests, whereas the people who are scattered throughout the country have in most cases only one member to look after many hundreds of thousands of square miles. 
It is sheer hypocrisy for the members of the Labor Party to come into this chamber and talk about one vote one. value. As has been mentioned, the Federal Executive of the Labor Party is selected on an equal basis among the States, irrespective of the population in the States. After all, the Federal Executive is the overriding and controlling body of the Labor Party; what it says goes. I do not say that that is a bad system, that the organisation should not say: This is the policy', and the members who are elected to the Parliament should not carry out that policy. If that is what members of the Labor Party believe in, that is fair enough, and I am not arguing about it. But the fact is that the Federal Executive is not elected on a population basis. 
This evening we received a sermon from  Senator Douglas  McClelland on the principle of. one vote one value, but I have not heard him suggest to the Labor Party or to this chamber that because Tasmania has a population of only 420,000 people, it should have so many members on the Federal Executive, and that New South Wales with a population of 4.5 million should have 10 times as many members on the Executive. Also, it is proposed to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act to provide for 2 senators from the Northern Territory! lt is no good arguing, as Senators James McClelland argued yesterday, that the Constitution provides for this. There is no reference in the Constitution to 2 senators coming from the Northern Territory. 
Yes, but it is not necessary to have them. The Government intends to amend the Electoral Act to provide for 2 senators from the Northern Territory; it does not have to change the Constitution in order to do that. 
The Government is just doing this because it believes that it might be able to stack this chamber. The whole point is that the Government suggests that there should be 2 senators from the Northern Territory which has a population of some 30.000 or 40,000 people. Where is the principle of one vote one value in that? It is sheer hypocrisy.  Senator Milliner  and  Senator McAuliffe,  2 of my Queensland friends, spoke earlier in the debate. They both follow a sport called Rugby 'League with which I too am associated. It is amazing bow they will support the principle of one vote one value particularly in the selection of Rugby League test teams. I remember occasions when Queensland was able to defeat New South Wales at Rugby League - I see  Senator Mulvihill  grinning - but Queensland was not able to get one member in the test team because the numbers game applied; there were more selectors from New South Wales than from Queensland. Because Queensland did not have the numbers on the selection panel it did not have any representative in the test team. Queensland might as well have had nobody on the selection panel. These are the areas where democracy fails. 
Our nation is probably more centralised than any other nation. Concentrations of population are in certain areas. But most other nations have a great deal more elasticity in electoral matters than we have in Australia. There has been talk about the so-called gerrymander in Queensland. But the fact is that with all the redistributions- in Queensland we are nearer to equality of voters in electorates today than we ever were. So what is all this talk that only the Country Party carries out gerrymanders and the Labor Party does not do so? The Labor Party was in power in Queensland for 40 years and it had every opportunity to gerrymander, and, boy, did it do a job of gerrymandering! lt is no good for honourable senators opposite to say that the members of the Australian Democratic Labor Party did that. Honourable senators opposite are not too proud to own men like Ben Chifley, John Curtin, and Ned Hanlon in Queensland. They were the leaders of the Labor Party in the days when those so-called gerrymanders were carried out. 
As far as the Federal scene is concerned, I think honourable senators will recall the remarks that were made after the last redistribution. Most political commentators considered that in some States the government of the day had an advantage, that in other States the then Opposition had an advantage and that overall probably the Opposition gained out of the total redistribution. Surely that gives the lie to the stories about the gerrymander carried out by the government of the day. I am very concerned about what might happen if this Bill is passed by this chamber and becomes law because in the last few months we have had a fair taste of what this Government is likely to do and we have been given notice of a few other measures that are certainly revolutionary, as far as this country is concerned. 
 Senator Mulvihill  knows quite, well what it is and. probably he does not agree with half of the things that have been suggested. Members of the Labor Party talk about representation, but one of the things they want to do is to abolish the Senate. I do not know whether that is still part of their platform. There has been talk of reference to abolition of the Senate being taken out of the platform. I do not know how many honourable senators opposite would support that proposal. 
I reckon that  Senator Cavanagh  would support the Senate's retention as long as he is here. Only when he was going out would he agree to its abolition. Perhaps it is in the back of his mind that one day the Senate should be abolished. I have no doubt that as long as certain other senators are here the proposal will not come to the fore as a real issue. It is amazing that while members of the Labor Party talk about abolishing the Senate they are also talking about bringing more members into the Senate. It is quite a ridiculous situation. There is no doubt that this is only part of the pay-off to the big cities of Sydney and Melbourne which voted for the Labor Party and put it on the treasury bench after 23 years. This is only one of the pay-offs. There have been many others - revaluation and other issues that I could mention. lt is quite obvious that honourable senators opposite will give all the assistance in the world to the big capital cities to the detriment of the remote country areas in Australia. The rural sector certainly has been copping a hiding ever since 2nd December. 
I will tell  Senator Wriedt  in time, if he does not know now. 
Revaluation - is one matter, and  Senator Wriedt  knows what effect that can have. There is also the question of rising costs. The rural sector, particularly the export industries, will have to face all the increases in costs which it will not be able to pass on. We see excuses now being made with the setting up of a prices tribunal and prices committee. The first group being attacked are the people in the rural sector - the meat producers and others. This is what we expected and obviously this is what will happen. I am pleased to know that the Opposition parties will vote against this Bill. I think that I would only be wasting the time of the Senate if I continued to speak. Most other speakers on the Opposition side have spelt out the hypocrisy of the Government in introducing this measure. I have much pleasure in opposing the Bill. 
The Australian Country Party supports the amendment moved by  Senator Gietzelt  for the reason suggested by  Senator McManus  and  Senator Cotton.  The Country Party has stated its case in respect of this legislation on numerous occasions. We realise that the Senate Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations has spent a great deal of time on the subject. Much evidence has been submitted to the Committee. We agree that perhaps this report should be presented before the Senate continues with this debate. So we are happy to go along with the amendment. 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry consider that the oneyear extension of the wheat stabilisation scheme which was announced yesterday represents a decision that is consistent with the view which he expressed to  Senator DrakeBrockman  in the Senate on 2 May that tha present scheme is an open-ended commitment? Is the announcement consistent with the statement which the Minister made in a speech to the Farm Writers and Broadcasters Society of Victoria on 30 March when he said :'I oppose open-ended commitments that place no limit on Treasury allocations'? 
The Australian Country Party supports this measure. I do not think I need to traverse the grounds that have been stated by  Senator Cotton  and  Senator Byrne.  The Australian Country Party thoroughly agrees with the measure. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it correct that the Government has decided to make available $20m through the Development Bank for long term rural loans at from 7 per cent to 8 per cent interest? If so, is this not a departure from election promises to make funds available at low interest rates? Was the reason for raising the interest rates in line with statements made by members of the Government that most rural industries were now prosperous and booming and also that they had been feather-bedded for too long by the previous Government at the expense of city dwellers? Finally, has the decision run the gauntlet of the Labor Caucus? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry conferred with State primary industry Ministers and leaders of the meat industry on the subject of substitute meats? Is it a fact that some products being marketed in Australia as meat contain substitutes? Will the Minister agree that uncontrolled production and sale of substitutes will seriously affect the industry in this country, particularly if such products are not labelled as to their contents? 
My understanding is that until recently anyway the volume of meat substitutes on the market was only marginal in the overall demand. There are, of course, regulations laid down concerning the labelling of such products. I will have a look at the current position. I have not looked at it for 2 or 3 months, and if I can supply the honourable member with any additional information I shall do so. 
My question to the Minister for Primary Industry follows a question 1 asked last week. Did the Government promise prior to the last election to make long term low interest loans available to the rural sector? Is the report correct that $20m is to be made available through the Development Bank at the going rate of interest of 7 per cent to 8 per cent to rural industries? If so, why the change of policy? Is it not a fact that for many years since the last war loans have been made available to the rural sector through trading banks and the Development Bank al concessional interest rates? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Minister see a recent statement by the  President  of the New South Wales Graziers Association that although prices in most primary industries were buoyant, the industries were not? Did he note that the Association  President  said that one or even  2  years of better prices would not compensate for the difficult period that farmers had been through? I ask the Minister whether he agrees with those statements and whether they have been taken into consideration in fixing the terms of the Government's financial assistance to rural industries. 
Does the Minister for Primary Industry recall a statement by the then shadow Minister for Primary Industry,  Dr Rex  Patterson, when outlining the Australian Labor Party's rural policy prior to the last election? He stated: 
The ALP would ease immediately the cost price squeeze on producers of wool, meat, wheat, dairy products, sugar and fruit. This would be achieved by recognising the need for income compensation for producers who sold a large proportion of their products overseas, particularly on free markets. 
In view of the disadvantages caused to these industries by the revaluation of the Australian dollar in December, the realignment with the American dollar in February and the galloping inflation which is pushing up costs to these industries, what does the Government propose to do to honour this election promise by the responsible Labor Party spokesman on rural matters during the last election campaign? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry inform the Senate what the interest rate will be for the $20m made available to rural industries through the Commonwealth Development Bank? Will the rate by from 7 per cent to 8 per cent, as reported in the Press? Is it true that the interest rate charged by the Development Bank was 6 per cent from 1966 until 1971 when it was increased to 61/4 per cent? 
My question, which I direct to the Minister for Primary Industry, follows on from the question that I asked him earlier. Is it a fact that loans from the Commonwealth Development Bank to rural industries under the previous Government were for periods up to 15 years without an increase in interest rates? If so, would this not mean that the proposed interest rates of 7 per cent to 8 per cent represent a substantial increase and negate various statements made by Labor spokesmen prior to the election? 
I rise to indicate that the Australian Country Party will not oppose the second reading of this Bill and will support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  There is no doubt that this Bill has had quite a remarkable history, lt was first introduced by the previous Government more or less in  the  form in which it entered this chamber. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wilkinson)  - Order! May I remind you,  Senator Maunsell,  that the amendment has not as yet been moved. It is proposed to be moved at the Committee stage. It is only a foreshadowed amendment. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  When the new Government took office on 2 December it looked around for instruments to effect the left wing Labor policy of nationalisation of any industry that it could find. The Labor Government seized upon this legislation to socialise the transport industry and probably the tourist industry. Consequently the measure that was introduced into the other House had a much wider scope than the measure which we are debating in the Senate today. 'In fact, the previous Bill gave TAA enormous powers to acquire almost anything. Unfortunately, the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Government have seen fit to bring the whole airline operation back to its previous level and to bring about what was previously intended to be a development of the 2-airline policy. 
I think Australians can be very proud of the 2-airline system that operates in this country. It has  a  safety record second to none. Australia, because of its size, is one of the most air minded nations in the world and consequently most Australian citizens at some time or another travel on its domestic airlines. Everyone in this nation appreciates the efficiency and particularly the safety of our domestic airline service. This record has been brought about mainly by  the  fact  that we  have had competition. We have not allowed any other airlines to enter the field and so take from the existing 2 main airlines the volume of traffic available to ensure the profitable working arrangement that enables them to expand sensibly. Both airlines have been offered financial assistance to expand and the competition between them has been responsible for keenness and the devotion to maintenance requirements which is necessary for efficiency and safety. 
I do not know why the previous  speaker  in this debate,  Senator McLaren,  believes that by supporting the proposed amendment the Opposition will defeat the Bill. The proposed amendment merely says that Trans-Australia Airlines should not have the advantage of using funds from its superannuation scheme for capital improvement works. No other industry is able to use such funds; no other Commonwealth instrumentality is able to use funds from its superannuation scheme for its capital development. That is the reason why the Opposition proposes to move this amendment. I cannot understand the thinking of Government supporters who say that it »vill defeat the whole principle of the 2-airline system. 
I know that there are anomalies in the 2 airline system.  Senator Sim  referred to what is happening in Western Australia where one airline is competing with another, mainly on developmental routes. We have the reverse problem in Queensland where Ansett Airlines of Australia has attempted over the years to enter developmental routes that have been the province of Trans-Australia Airlines. This resulted in difficulties because of the lack of through-put. The economic viability of some of these routes in western Queensland has been affected by the rural recession and the extended droughts in those areas. The result is that most of these routes have become unprofitable. I think that from time to time the government of the day has to take note of such a situation and endeavour to come to some arrangement that will enable service to be given to people in those areas. The airline concerned, whichever one is running the particular service, should be given an opportunity to operate profitably. However, in the main I think that the 2 airline system has worked remarkably well. 
I want to refer to one other matter. It seems that Government supporters in this chamber and in the other House have set out upon a campaign in the debates on this Bill to rubbish Ansett Airlines of Australia whenever possible. Although  Senator McLaren  said that his Party supported the 2 airline system, I doubt whether many honourable senators on the Government side would agree with him. I am quite certain that the majority of Government supporters would prefer to see one airline in this country. I often wonder how a certain gentleman who wanted to introduce a third airline could have supported the Labor Party on different occasions. No doubt he hoped that he would be looked after. Why should he have thought along those lines, knowing that the main policy of the Australian Labor Party is to have one airline? 
-You know very well who that gentleman was. The .Country Party will not oppose the second reading of this Bill but will support the amendment which is to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry concerns rural finance. Does the Minister recall an answer he gave to a question asked by me last week in which he justified the raising of interest rates if the term of the loan is longer? Does the Minister also recall answering another question on 22 May in which he challenged me and the Australian Country Party to state why the previous Government charged the going rate of interest for the $6Sm it made available last year through the statutory reserve deposits of the trading banks? As that money was made available for up to 25 years, with extensions beyond that time in special cases, will the Minister agree that by charging the going interest rate on these loans the previous Government gave what amounts to a concession to rural producers? 
The legislation now before the Senate deals with a matter which is most important to this nation. Since the commencement of the Australian migration program, some  4  million migrants of whom  2i  million have been British citizens have come to this country. These people have played an important part in building Australia into the great nation which it is today. Little doubt exists that a well-balanced migration program will play an important part in the future development of this nation. It is essential that the Australian way of life as we know it, our standards of living and the general character of our nation should be preserved whilst our culture is enriched through contact with the  j  cultures of people from other nations who migrate here. 
This Bill sets out the manner in which migrants to Australia may become part and parcel of our nation through attaining citizenship. The Bill has many good aspects. But there are certain matters contained in it which concern me and concern my Party. Those areas of concern have ably been expressed by  Senator Davidson.  I for one cannot see why British citizens cannot obtain Australian citizenship earlier than 3 years after their arrival here. Presently, the qualifying period is 12 months. Let us face the fact that most Australian people come from British stock. We have acquired most of the British traditions, institutions and way of ;ife. In most cases no language barriers arise between British migrants and Australians; people from British countries are able to fit immediately into our society and, if they so desire, after being here 12 months may become Australian citizens. I do not see any reason why they should not be able to do that or why that practice should not continue. 
I am one of those who is proud to be an Australian citizen. The responsibility of Australian citizenship should not be taken lightly. Most people - certainly those in my Party and I think, most Australians - are proud to be Australians. I believe that, when people from other countries seek to become citizens &lt;-f this nation, they too should feel just as much pride in their new citizenship as we do. Citizenship entails responsibilities as well as the benefits which may accrue from it. It seems to me that by deleting the section of the Act relating to renunciation of a migrant's previous nationality, this Bill will give to those people most of the rights of Australian citizenship without p'acing on them the responsibilities of that citizenship. Because such people are citizens of another nation, ft could be that they might opt out of responsibilities to Australia such as the defence of this country. I think that a number of our new citizens would like to feel as proud of this country as we are. They may not realise, probably for sentimental reasons through which they still wish to retain the ties with their former countries, that perhaps they could get themselves into some trouble by their actions. There are many cases to prove my argument. Australian citizens may not agree with the conditions that now operate in their former countries. Changes may have been made in governments, for instance. They may find that they may even be in conflict with the policies of their former countries. Consequently, it may be to the disadvantage of such people to retain their former citizenship. 
I turn to the provision relating to the oath of allegiance. I believe that the concept of the monarchy is not outdated in Australia. Belief in the monarchy principle is not old fashioned. It has always been accepted that the monarchy is the symbol of the nation. Whereas we may be divided politically, through religious views or in some other manner, there is always the symbol of the monarch as the head of our country to draw us together. Irrespective of our differences, we see through the monarchy that we are all one nation; we are. all Australians. I believe that that principle always has operated in that respect. I am most disappointed to see that any reference to the monarchy has been taken out of the oath of allegiance or oath of affirmation. After all, members of our armed forces and even members of this Parliament take oaths of allegiance to the monarchy. I do not see why persons seeking to become Australian citizens should not similarly take oaths or affirmations in which the monarchy is mentioned. In fact, I believe that many of our new citizens would like to be associated with the monarchy in this regard. Therefore, in the Committee stage, when the Opposition moves its amendment, the Australian Country Party will support it. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry inform the House of what is meant by the phrase 'the lowest possible interest rates' when referring to rural loans? Does it mean interest rates which would cover the normal operating costs of an instrumentality such as the Commonwealth Development Bank? Is the Minister aware of a provision in the platform and policy of the Australian Labor Party, under the heading Northern Australian development' and the sub-heading 'Interest rates,' which states: 
The provision of realistic low rates of interest (2-3 per cent per annum) for long term development loans in line with successful policies followed by overseas Governments. 
Does this apply to rural industries in northern Australia, particularly the sugar and beef cattle industries? 
On behalf of the Australian Country Party I inform the Senate that we will be opposing this Conciliation and Arbitration Bill at all stages. I am very concerned about the consequences of this Bill. Despite what  Senator James  McClelland and other spokesmen for the Government have said there is no doubt that the provisions of this Bill would give increased power to the militant union bosses and would enable them to hold industry and the nation to ransom. There is no doubt that most Australians support the principles of trade unionism. Most would agree that, many excellent benefits have been achieved for members of unions over the years. Some benefits, of course, have been achieved by industrial action and strikes. In most cases the nation and industry has npt suffered as a result. But I believe that if militant unionists and union bosses are given powers so that they can use tactics of militancy, coercion or intimidation against industry, then we could reach a stage where we could have industrial anarchy and chaos. 
It is all very well for members of the Government to say that it has a mandate to introduce this Bill. I did not see anything in the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  which mentioned actions for tort Having sighted it in the platform and the policy of the Australian Labor Party I have mentioned it all over Queensland but Australian Labor Party candidates for election have denied that the Government would ever introduce such legislation. This legislation taken on its own is bad enough. But if we take it in conjunction with other measures which this Government has brought down it becomes what I might describe as the fuse to light the socialist fires in Australia. Since this Government came to power in December we have seen an increase in the unemployment benefit, which has reached a figure that must discourage a lot of people from wanting to work. I am not opposed to a reasonable unemployment benefit for anyone. The Government has by regulation, through the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who is the Minister in charge of social service benefits, introduced a provision so that the person seeking the unemployment benefit no longer has to take any job offered to him. The job must be in a profession or calling similar to the job he was in before he became unemployed. In other words a glassblower or an elephant trainer can be in Cairns where there is no glassblowing factory or elephant training, a cane harvester operator can be down in Melbourne or a crocodile shooter in Hobart and he is able to secure the unemployment benefit. 
That is what the provision means. But what else does it mean? A typical example is the alumina strike at Gladstone. The moment there was a shutdown of work the Minister stated that those on strike were entitled to the unemployment benefit. In a big industry, particularly a refinery where there are key parts, when someone goes out on strike only a few people might be involved but the whole enterprise is stopped from operating. Because of such circumstances industries are forced to close down. As a result - according to this Government anyway - all the unionists involved are entitled to the unemployment benefit. They do not have to take any other job; they can just draw the unemployment benefit. In other words, in future the taxpayers will be financing the strikes. 
We have seen the Government introduce other measures into this Parliament. The Australian National Airlines Bill would have enabled Trans-Australia Airlines to take over just about anything in this country. We have not finished with such Bills yet. There is the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation Bill and a few other measures. Of course those who are pushing socialisation of the means of production, distribution, and exchange in this country have other ways to implement this policy. We have seen a breakdown of moral standards, and of law and order through violent demonstrations organised by the communists and the militant unionists. Only recently we have seen raids on homes by the police. All this intimidation helps to break down resistance to what can become a takeover. 
When we look at the provisions of this Bill, despite what has been said here, unionists and union bosses would be free from civil action. We can visualise a situation in which top union bosses not only could intimidate members but also could create strikes and intimidate employers. Once the strikes commenced most of the strike pay would' be provided by the taxpayers. It is not hard to see what would happen to private industry. Once it had been brought to its knees it would be only a matter of time before the socialist wagon would move in and take over. The Government has all these instrumentalities which it is endeavouring to set up ready to move in on private industry. We have even had suggestions that a. few shipbuilding yards are starting to show .losses. It has been suggested that the Federal Government will take an interest in them, perhaps a 25 per cent interest for a start. As industrial disputes go on and as further losses are made it would be only a matter of time before the ordinary investors in these companies which do not' have a bottomless pit of finance will be forced to get rid of their equity which will come to the Commonwealth, which has unlimited finance. 
I think that the people of this nation have to be made aware of what has been happening since 2 December in all avenues where this Government has attempted to implement its socialist platform. There is no doubt that it is under the control of the socialist left. The Government realises that it has a limited time in which to operate because the present Opposition will be back on the treasury bench before very long. Therefore the Government is running as fast as it can to implement all the policies that it possibly can. I believe that this is one of the more dangerous of the policies that the Government is seeking to implement. I return to the matter I mentioned earlier of the industrial dispute at Gladstone. The previous Government said that it did not believe that a shut-down occurred until a particular vote had been taken. But what happened when the present Government came to office? I wish to quote from a Press statement that was issued by  Mr Hayden  on 27 December. It states: 
Construction workers retrenched at Queensland Alumina Ltd Construction Plant, Gladstone on 19 October 1972 are to have unemployment benefits paid from the date of application. The Minister for Social Security,  Mr Bill  Hayden M.P., announced that he had issued instructions to his Department along these lines today. 
That is what we can expect from here on. The moment there is industrial trouble, the moment industries are forced to close down because vital areas of their production have been stopped and because they will only go on losing if they do not close down, we will see the situation where, as I mentioned earlier, (he taxpayers of the country are footing the bill for the payment of social service benefits to the participants in strikes. We will see unlimited strikes under these conditions. I suggest to the Senate that it should throw out this measure. If this measure does happen to pass the second reading stage the Senate should certainly ensure that the obnoxious provisions iri this Bill to which I have  referred are defeated. The Australian Country Party will oppose this Bill at all stages. 
I rise merely to indicate that the Australian Country Party will support this measure for, the same reasons as mentioned by  Senator. Marriott.  There is no point in having anything on the statute book which is virtually redundant. Whilst my Party still believes in the principle of some form of national service, we will support this Bill. 
-The Australian Country Party will support the Bills. As a member of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, I, too, would like to place on record appreciation of the fine work which was done by our Chairman, John Jess. He is the only member of the Committee who is not now in Parliament. As has been expressed already by other speakers, there is no doubt that John Jess did a tremendous job during the Committee's investigations. The main Bill, the Defence Force Retirement Bill, substantially implements the report of that Committee. As has been pointed out previously, that Committee was set up because of the complete uncertainty about the previous scheme. No one in the Services had any idea of his entitlement. No one could work them out. The object of the Committee was to recommend a simple scheme which could be understood by everyone. 
It is unfortunate that the Government has not been able at this stage, probably because of the short period of time that it has been in office, to bring the pre-1.959 contributors into some sort of orderly scheme. At this stage it looks as though there will be 2 schemes operating side by side until such time as all the pre-T959 contributors and the contributors prior to 1 October are out of the scheme or have completed their service. I imagine that 2 schemes will continue until then. I feel that because the new scheme provides benefits far in excess of what had been provided previously, the Government, in reviewing the scheme, could be generous to members who have retired, bring their entitlements into some sort of order and have a formula by which they will get increments annually, or however they are worked out, so that they can be brought into the new scheme in some way or another. 
I cannot support the amendment moved by  Senator Byrne.  I was not a party to his dissenting opinion in the report of the Committee. I do not think my Party will support the amendment, but at least it is on the record. This scheme will have to be reviewed. 
The Jess Committee thought that the benefits for invalidity and compensation brought down in its recommendations would be superior to anything operating at the time, but the new Commonwealth employees compensation scheme makes them look a bit silly. The reason for providing servicemen with a better superannuation scheme than possibly anyone else had was that they suffer particular disabilities. They have to serve overseas, away from home. They are shifting all the time. A lot of them do not marry until later in life. A lot of them have to be retired at an early age. Consequently, conditions of service and superannuation must be made attractive enough to attract servicemen to enlist. Because tha Commonwealth compensation scheme far exceeds what the Jess Committee recommended, that area will certainly have to be reviewed. But in order not to hold up the proceedings of the Senate, the Australian Country Party will support these Bills. 
Will the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence inform the Senate what cuts have been made to flying training hours for the Royal Australian Air Force and, in particular, which units are to be affected? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Was the Minister for Overseas Trade voicing the opinion of the Australian Government when he said that he wished Australia could import meat to help combat rising prices? Did the Minister for Overseas Trade previously advocate the importation of butter and lamb from New Zealand? Was that suggestion supported by spokesmen for primary industry within the Labor Party? From which country would it be expected that cheap meat would be obtained? In view of the event in other parts of the world does the Minister agree that to import meat would increase alarmingly the risk of animal diseases entering this country? Finally, does the Minister agree that Australia will continue to rely heavily on overseas earnings to finance its expenditure on social welfare programs and that the meat industry can play an important part? 
I join with other speakers tonight in deploring the fact that the debate on the Address-in-Reply to the Governor-General's Speech is taking so long to complete. I certainly have no intention of taking up a great deal of time tonight because I hope that it will be completed before we rise. I shall speak tonight on a matter which concerns me. I know that it concerns a lot of people in Australia, some for different reasons. I refer to the announcement by the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  of an export ban on kangaroo products. I know that since 1 April, when this ban came into operation, a great deal has been said and a great deal of information has been put forward. But the thing which we have to remember is that a lot of false propaganda has been put out by people who are unaware of the facts. I want to put the record straight on certain aspects. I can speak for what I might call the arid pastoral areas of Queensland, which is the big problem area of that State. I have little doubt that the problem which exists in Queensland applies also in particular areas of other States. 
If one listens to the propaganda which has been poured out, by well meaning people, I would say - the conservationsists and their supporters - one would imagine that the western areas of Queensland were once a great bushland teeming with kangaroos, and that greedy graziers destroyed everything when they embarked upon a killing process to get rid of the kangaroos so that they could run their sheep and cattle at a profit. The fact is that prior to the entry of graziers and settlers into that area there were no kangaroos out there. 
If honourable senators want confirmation of this they only have to read the history of our early explorers, such as Bourke, Wills, Landsborough and Mitchell. These people went out into this country. Bourke and Wills died. Most of the explorers suffered from starvation and thirst. We read of their eating snakes, lizards, galahs and so on. We have never heard of their eating kangaroos. Anyone who has lived in that country and understands it will know the reason. Kangaroos, like other animals - human being for that matter - require water. There is no natural water in that country except for certain waterholes on the main river system. I refer to the Diamantina River, the Barcoo and Cooper's Creek. Gathered at these waterholes in those days were the natural enemies of the kangaroo - the Aboriginal tribes and the Australian dingoes. Any kangaroo that may have ventured into that area as a result of a good season was soon killed by the dingoes or the Aboriginal tribes certainly rejoiced in the fact that they had kangaroos to live on. If one reads the corroborees of the Aboriginal tribes of those areas it will be noted that a great feast was held when a kangaroo was killed. Kangaroos have not been a problem in that country from the time that it was settled in the l-860s or the 1870s until after the Second World War. There are a few reasons for this. The first reason is that shortly after the war there was a boom in the price of wool and that particularly affected the wool industry. There was also a measure brought into this Parliament by the late Ben Chifley and his Government making expenditure on water conservation earth tanks a full deduction for income tax purposes. It is interesting to note that after 25 years it is a Labor Government that threw out that deduction in the recent Budget. 
It is also a fact that earth moving equipment was being developed during the war. In the early days earth tanks were put down by horse teams. About 100 horses would be involved and it would take about 9 months. One can imagine 100 horses eating their heads off on a property. The tanks cost about 2/6d a yard to build. In those days the price of wool was about lOd or 12d a lb. In 1951 when wool was 200d a lb earth moving equipment was able to put the same size tank down in under a week for l/9d a yard. Naturally, water tanks were placed all over the country. Instead of waterholes being 100 miles or 200 miles apart they were 3 miles or 4 miles apart. 
Even then, kangaroos were not a real problem in the area until in the 1950s when good seasons occurred. The graziers, because they wanted to protect their sheep against dingoes, built a sanctuary not only for their sheep but also for the kangaroos. A 3,600 mile dingo barrier fence was constructed around the sheep country of Queensland, from the border of South Australia right up to Cloncurry in the east and then down to the New South Wales border east of Goondiwindi. It was then that the kangaroos started to increase in numbers. They have been breeding ever since and now they are teeming millions. It is all very well to listen to people telling us that they are conservationists. The  Minister  for Customs and Excise  (Senator Murphy)  annoyed me and made every grazier, I think, in Western Queensland hopping mad wilh a statement he made on 7 June 1973. In reply to a question by  Senator Durack  he said: 
The suggestions that there has been proper control and proper conservation have been proved to be a lot of nonsense. It is time that Australians woke up to the fact that all around the world there is abhorrence at what has been happening in regard to the virtually uncontrolled slaughter of kangaroos. 
I say right now that the only conservationist of the kangaroos in Australia has been the grazier in arid areas of this country and not the people in the cities who talk about it. The people in the cities have not saved one kangaroo with all their talk. I have a property in the Longreach area. Not once in the past 25 years have I or my immediate neighbours allowed a professional shooter on the place. But once these kangaroos reach pest proportions they get into the scrub country in the bigger areas and something has to be done to control them. 
What I am concerned about now is that we suffered from 10 or 12 years of drought in that area. The number of kangaroos was depleted. But we have had 2 good seasons and the numbers are building up again very rapidly. The problem has been mainly confined to the sheep areas. There has not been a problem in the cattle areas because dingoes are still prevalent there. The cattle people have not bothered over the years, or perhaps felt that it was economically impossible, to get rid of the dingoes. Consequently dingoes have been allowed to breed and have been able to control not only kangaroos but also wild pigs. Now, with the introduction of the poison named '1080' we have all virtually got rid of the dingo population from the vast peninsular cattle areas, the Gulf areas and the far western areas of Queensland and we see a rapid increase in the numbers of kangaroos. 
I drove around the Gulf country recently. A few years back one could drive through it at night and never see a kangaroo. If one drives through that place today one has to travel at 20 or 30 miles an hour because the kangaroos are there in pest proportions. I would like the Minister for Primary Industry to take particular note of what I say and to talk to these people, the graziers of the area, the real conservationists of the kangaroos in Queensland, and see if some sort of organised program can be undertaken. I, like many other people and most graziers in particular, am an animal lover. Graziers spend a lifetime looking after animals through drought and everything else. We are not just disinterested in the kangaroos. Graziers are the people who are prepared to do the right thing. Millions and millions of dollars have been spent by graziers in building up their assets for the production of wool and meat which assist in obtaining the necessary overseas income for this nation. All those assets could be destroyed by animals that are not economic.  Dr Cairns  has suggested that we should import meat into this country. He might have a look at the usage of kangaroo meat to bring meat prices down. It would be better than importing cheaper meat from somewhere else. I believe that when a Minister makes statements and listens to people who have no idea whatsoever of the conditions he should at least remember that the country people are dealing with a problem concerning teeming millions of kangaroos in an area where they did not exist before. 
Kangaroos would be a real problem in the cattle country. Make no mistake about that. In these vast areas in the Gulf country and in the peninsula area, most of which is uninhabited, it will not be easy to eradicate kangaroos. If kangaroos get a hold in those areas there is no way in the world that the graziers will be able to control them. We have heard from experts that kangaroos do not eat the same grasses or herbages as do sheep or cattle. Naturally horses do not eat the same pastures as cattle or sheep - that is if they have a choice. Half the time these arid areas are suffering from drought and there is a limited amount of pasture available to the animals that may be in the area. It is difficult trying to keep two or three thousand sheep alive, knowing it will not rain for 6 months, when the particular pastures are invaded by 400 to 600 kangaroos. That means that instead of lasting 6 months the pasture will only last 2 months and then not only the kangaroos will die from starvation, so will the sheep. This is a problem that people have to appreciate. I told the Minister earlier that I was going to bring this subject up tonight. He is not here but I know that he is a busy man. I hope that  Senator Wriedt,  the Minister for Primary Industry, will be able to pass the message on to him. 
Has it been drawn to the attention of the Minister for Repatriation that the National Secretary of the Returned Services League,  Mr Keys,  told the New South Wales State Congress of the League in Sydney recently that attempts were being made to amalgamate the Repatriation (Department with the Department of Social Security and that repatriation hospitals would be transferred to a national hospitals commission? Am I to understand that the Minister told the Congress the day before  Mr Keys  spoke that, as far as he was concerned, the Repatriation Department would continue to exist as a separate entity? In view of the Minister's answer to a question asked of him last Thursday by  Senator Gair  concerning Labor's reorganisation of the Services into one Department of Defence, does the Minister still hold the same view as he expressed to the Congress and does he see any threat to repatriation continuing in its present form? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that the Government proposes to remove the import quotas on cheap foreign shirts in March of next year? Did the Minister say yesterday that the quotas had been extended to that time on the understanding that the Australian industry undertake urgent studies of and planning on its restructuring? Has there been any indication that the Australian manufacturers will be able to restructure themselves so that they can compete successfully with the cheap imports? 
Will the Minister for Primary Industry agree that many rural areas, particularly wool growing areas, have suffered severe economic hardship due to conditions of drought and depressed prices? Will the Minister also agree that measures taken in the Budget, particularly in respect of the additional price to be paid for petrol in rural areas compared with that applying in city areas, and the withdrawal of income tax concessions, will seriously hamper the recovery of country areas? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. As galloping inflation is having a serious affect on the cost of production of export orientated rural industries which have to compete on the world markets and as the Government's revaluation of the Australian dollar which was aimed at curbing inflation will affect the export industries most, will he ensure that adequate compensation is made available to export rural industries affected? Will he also see that when interest rates are increased this further burden will not be placed on these industries- particularly on industries in which producers are being rehabilitated under rural reconstruction schemes? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Were any requests made to the Prime Minister or other Ministers for them to visit the Torres Strait Islands by recognised Island leaders to discuss the border issue; if so, what were these requests and what were the replies. 
Did the Minister inform the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs and the Island leaders of his desire to visit the Islands well in advance; if so, what were the replies received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Will the Minister give special attention to the variations in the price of" meat products in the sparsely populated areas of northern Australia compared with the more highly populated areas of the south-east before and after the export tax is imposed? If it is found that the only reduction in price occurs in northern Australia, which depends almost entirely on the export market, will the Minister take immediate action to have the tax abolished? 
We have just listened to one of the most remarkable speeches I have had the misfortune to hear in this place. I know that this debate was adjourned on the motion of  Senator Poyser  but  Senator O  'Byrne rose to speak. I do not know whether  Senator O  'Byrne is the third emergency or the fifth emergency but it was obvious from his speech that he did not know what he was talking about. He had no idea what motion  Senator Sim  moved last Thursday night. If he had listened to  Senator Sim's  speech or had read it in Hansard he would have known something about the subject matter. 
I want to say quite clearly that I am very happy to support the motion moved by  Senator Sim.  To my mind the double standards of the Government in respect of atmospheric nuclear testing by China and France are indicative of its standards in everything it does. There is no question about that. If a nation happens to be a member of the Communist camp it can do no wrong.  Senator O  'Byrne did not mention one word about China. It is open season on any nation which is not in the Communist camp. What about the United States of America? This Government was not in office for a fortnight before Ministers were racing off and attacking the United States. They attacked every nation that has been loyal to this country and that has been helping this country. The obvious reason is that they are doing what their masters say back in the Trades Halls in the various States. If they want endorsement to come back to this House or to the other place they have to get up and make a great song and dance about the Communist front because the left wing of the Labor Party controls the whole organisation. 
One can understand how the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  got into so much trouble last night. After all,  Senator O  'Byrne is the Government Whip in this chamber. He has to whip around and get all the troops. If his knowledge of the subject matter dealt with last night was as poor as his knowledge of this issue I have no doubt that he rallied a lot of troops around to embarrass the Prime Minister. No doubt the Prime Minister will not be game to leave this country in the future while the House is sitting; he might not have a job when he returned. 
I want to state clearly that my Party, the Australian Country Party, goes along with the Liberal Party in this respect. We oppose nuclear testing wherever it occurs and no matter which nation carries it out. Let there be no doubt about that. The whole object of this exercise we are engaged in is the Government's attitude. People who listened to  Senator O  'Byrne's speech would know that he does not even realise that China has exploded atmospheric nuclear weapons. The Prime Minister said that the French tests were concerned with the exploding of a far worse bomb. It was a monstous bomb. Government supporters, because of what is said by their masters back in the various States, have to play up to the Chinese. This Government and the trade unions were organising trade bans against the French while the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns,  was racing over to China and negotiating special, favoured treatment in trade relations with that country. He was doing this despite the fact that both China and France were carrying out atmospheric nuclear testing at the same time. We even saw the Australian Council of Trade Unions racing around and seeing that French firms in this country could not carry on their affairs. There was one notable exception in this regard and that was the French company which was building the Prime Minister's suite. We noticed that work did not stop at that end of this building. I do not know who was responsible for arranging that special treatment. Did honourable senators notice that the work did not stop down there, even though a French company was doing the work? 
-Double standards again. In his great speech a short time ago  Senator O  'Byrne mentioned - 
He thinks it was, so I will give him credit for that. After all,  Senator O  'Byrne was once a ringer out in western 
Queensland, and no doubt the heat out there had an effect on him. 
-That is all right. I was a ringer also in the same part of the country. The Opposition has made it clear that it opposes nuclear testing. We are opposed to any build-up of nuclear weapons. For most of his speech  Senator O'Byrne  told us that we on this side of the chamber are war mongers. As was mentioned by  Senator Carrick,  I trunk, our Foreign Minister,  Mr N.  H. Bowen, moved in the United Nations for the banning of nuclear testing. Yet  Senator O'Byrne  tried to make out that we on this side of the chamber are war mongers and that we want to destroy people. 
To come back to the terms of the motion before the Senate, it states that the Senate deplores the fact that the Government has not been prepared to protest to China in the manner it has protested to France. What has happened in relation to France? There has been strong condemnation not only by the Government's leader, the Prime Minister, but also by members of the Cabinet. It has been estimated that it cost some $ 138,000 for  Senator Murphy  and his entourage to go to Paris and put on a great show of ballyhoo in attacking the French. Where is evidence of the same type of action being taken against China? Can honourable senators opposite tell me that? All I can recall hearing in that regard was that Gough Whitiam, while in Canada, said: 'Oh well, the French tests were monstrous compared with the Chinese tests. After all, the Chinese are under threat of attack'. He did not say who was threatening to attack China. I presume it would be Russia. When we get down to the issues, the interesting thing is that when it suits him the Prime Minister says that we cannot oppose the Chinese tests because they are under threat of attack. He did not say who was threatening China but we know he was referring to Russia. 
I do not know what Mick Young was doing over there. 
-He was on the VIP flight. Let me get back to what the Prime Minister says when he wants to justify Chinese nuclear testing. One can imagine that if China is under threat of attack and that threat is posed by Russia, the whole of the world will be involved in any conflict which might ensue. Such a conflict will spread through the South-East Asian area where the Russians have their submarines and then the rest of the world will become involved. But the Government is going to sabotage the Australian defence forces. It says that we can be sure there will be no threat to this country for another 15 years. This is another example of its double standards. When it suits the Government it applies one standard in one instance and when it suits it it applies another standard in another instance. These are the facts. As far as I am concerned we have to see that nuclear testing is stopped. We must not only protest but also, if necessary, organise nations and group nations together to stop it. We also have to try to break down the build-up of nuclear weapons and we have to endeavour to try to promote peace throughout the world. We can do that only if we adopt an objection and unbiassed approach to all nations. We have to deal unbiassedly with those who break the rules. Does it matter whether a test is carried out on a Pacific island or in China, in the southern hemisphere or in the northern hemisphere, whether it is close to Australia or whether it is not? Is not the principle whethere you test or not test? 
If we do not want nuclear fall-out around the world- we have no proof whether it will be dangerous, but let us assume that perhaps it could be dangerous- let us stop nuclear fallout or radiation where it is possible to stop it. There are many areas where radiation takes place and we cannot stop it. But we must have one standard and we have to be completely unbiassed in our approaches towards other countries. This is the very reason why  Senator Sim  has moved this motion and why we on the Opposition side are supporting it. There is no doubt that this Government is prepared to do everything possible to frustrate France while at the same time it does absolutely nothing to oppose nuclear testing by China. I have much pleasure in supporting the motion. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the decision forced on the Government by Labor Caucus to examine ways of exempting home buyers from Government imposed higher mortgage interest rates, does the Minister propose to advocate consideration of a similar concession on existing and fresh borrowings by primary producers? Does he agree that higher interest rates will be a severe burden on farmers who already face record indebtedness of more than $2,000m? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Did the Government propose in March this year to increase the interest rate on debt reconstruction money under the rural reconstruction scheme from 4 per cent to 5 per cent? Was the proposal strongly opposed by the so-called rural rump of the Labor caucus and was it later abandoned in accordance with the demands of the States? In view of the opposition then to an increase in the interest rates applying to primary producers, has the Minister and/or a section of caucus attempted to make out a case to exempt producers from the crippling new interest rates now being imposed? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it the intention of the Department of Defence to close the Tropical Trials Establishment of the Australian Army near Innisfail in north Queensland? If it is to be closed, when will this take place? 
I indicate at the outset that the Australian Country Party will oppose this measure to the best of its ability at all stages of the debate and, if the question happens to go to the people, out on the hustings. We believe that this is a gigantic confidence trick in order to secure from the people centralist powers for other purposes, particularly for the Marxist type doctrines on socialism. The Government is using the false argument that the Commonwealth needs the powers in order to control prices and therefore to control inflation. I believe that the Australian people must be made aware of the fact that this is not the old style Labor governments that we have known in the past- those led by men like Ben Chifley and John Curtin, and a lot earlier by Andrew Fisher. This is, without a doubt, a reactionary type Government. It is controlled from within by socialist theoretical academics and from without by those who believe in the Marxist type socialist doctrines. 
I think it is most important when issues like this come before the Parliament that we, the Opposition, should stress to the people the importance of any action that they may take and indicate what action we may take in this Parliament on their behalf and the effects of that action. What is the real aim of any left wing pseudo Marxist type government? Obviously it is to implement at the earliest opportunity the socialist doctrine of the complete socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. I can well understand a few remarks from some of those old type Labor members of Parliament who must shudder every time they get a hiding in the Caucus from the socialist academics who are putting forward this socialist program. In order to control the means of production, distribution and exchange - 
You might not be allowed to run your hotel when they get the full power. 
You may know your Party better than I do. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Poke)-  Order!  Senator Maunsell,  will you please address the Chair and forget the interjections? 

 -Yes, Mr Acting Deputy President. Any Marxist type government wanting to implement this policy of the complete socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange must have the necessary power vested in the Commonwealth to enable it to carry out this policy. Anyone who has followed the history of referenda in Australia will know that in normal circumstances it is almost impossible to have power such as that sought in this Bill granted by the people. The people hold the view-quite rightly, I believe-that the old masters who drew up the Constitution did a very good job to protect the States, particularly those States that have not the population and therefore the votiong strength of some other States. Those lesser populated States, in particular, are very careful not to give to the Commonwealth Parliament powers which they believe may not act in their interests. So we find on this occasion that the Government, and particularly the left wing academics, see an opportunity through this problem of inflation to hoodwink the people into changing the Constitution. The people are very much concerned about inflation. 
-Senator Wheeldon is one of them. 
-Give me time. I will make my speech. Do honourable senators opposite want to delay the passage or the defeat of this Bill? 
I have an hour in which to make my point and, if necessary, I will take that hour. The power to control prices would be difficult to obtain through normal channels. People are very much concerned about inflation, but they are being hoodwinked into believing that the cure for inflation is to give the Commonwealth powers over prices. I hope before I resume my seat that I will explode that theory. If the Government gets away with this, if it is able to get this measure through the Parliament and take the question to the people, it is quite possible- although highly improbable- that it will be able to hoodwink the people into agreeing to the proposal. That is why we see this great rush to get this measure passed. The Government can see that this is an opportunity for it to gain power which otherwise it would not have. The first thing we must ask ourselves is where is the need for this power. We have heard Government senators say during the course of this debate and in other debates that inflation ran riot during the 23 years in which the previous Government was in office. I think  Senator McAuliffe  mentioned the figure of some 22 per cent which applied back in the Korean war days. But the previous Government was able to build up the economic future of this nation tremendously with the powers that already exist by using strong and responsible monetary policies. We were prepared as a Government to not only attack the problem of prices but also to attack the problem of incomes and wages, which after all are in the long run responsible for increases in prices. 
The Government cannot get away from the fact that labour in some way or another is responsible in the long run for prices. This is so whether it is direct labour engaged in a particular industry or whether it is labour engaged in other industries of which the particular product that is being produced requires materials, transport or something else. It all gets back to labour in the long run. If wages and incomes are increased it is only sensible to say, unless there is an increase in productivity which will allow increased wages to be absorbed, that prices must go up. But this Government will not face up to these problems. 
It is an amazing thing that when we were in Government for 23 years we had the lowest unemployment rate of any country in the world. 
Well, the honourable senator's Party has been in office only for a while. He should wait until the effects of his Government's inflationary policies and other policies of dampening down development in this nation and killing the primary industries of the nation are felt to see what the unemployment situation will be like then. We left the Government with a sound economy, and a good, sound and progressive nation. The Government is trying its hardest to destroy the economy because, let us face it, the productive industries of this country have made it what it is today. It is the productive industries of this country which have brought about the present standard of living of this nation. Everyone knows that the standard of living of any nation, or for that matter any family, is dependent on the income derived or brought into the nation or the home. Although Australia in numerical terms is a small nation it is the 12th largest trading nation in the world. Because of the productivity of our exporting industries this nation has been able to withstand a high standard of living and has been able to maintain high employment rates. But these achievements will go by the board very smartly if this Government stays in office. 
Great urgency has been expressed about this legislation being passed. Yet, the previous Government combatted these problems for 23 years without the power sought by the present Government. Incidentally, the States have statedat least those States that are controlled by 
Liberal Party and Country Party governmentsthat they are prepared to assist in attacking this great problem. They have said that they will give the Federal Government the necessary powers for a period in order to control inflation. So why the urgency? 
Honourable senators opposite want this power to be given to the Commonwealth Government permanently so that the Government can use it against the people. The Government wants to control the price of homes, the price at which cars are sold and even the price at which employees sell their labour. This is the sort of control that the Government wants. This is Marxist type control; the type of control which is practised by pseudo-Marxist type nations all around the world. Fortunately the regime in Chile which is one such nation was recently overthrown. Many countries throughout the world are following the doctrine of complete power where all the initiative and incentive for people to produce has been taken away. In his speech on this Bill  Senator Cavanagh  said that the cost factor should be taken into account and then there should be a margin for profit. I suppose if a person is so efficient that the cost factor can be cut by half his margin of profit has to come down accordingly. This is what happens in all socialist countries. I would like to take honourable senators opposite on a trip to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. I had the privilege of visiting this country only a month or so ago and I was able to have a look at what goes on in a socialist country which has been functioning for over 50 years. It was very interesting to see the lack of initiative and interest of the people there. I suppose that if one is not paid extra for initiative, hard work and extra work one will not do that work. It was obvious that this attitude had been accepted by the whole nation which says: 'We will just go along quietly'. The standard of living of the Soviet people is low compared to that of Australia. I was very surprised to see that because one would have thought that a nation of such military and technological strength which has been able to put up Sputniks would have had a higher standard of living. But the Russian people freely admit that they not only lack the technology required in the ordinary industrial life of the country but that also they lack the know-how and that they are quite happy to engage in joint ventures with other nations. In fact they welcome joint ventures with private enterprise countries which they encourage to come into the USSR and assist them in developing their resources. 
This great philosophy which destroys initiative and efficiency is the one that many members of the Government uphold. This is why the Opposition does not want to give the Commonwealth Government or anyone else the power to enable it to carry out these socialist philosophies. But the Government must have that power in order to implement them. That is why the Government of the day is .trying to rush this legislation throughto try to panic everyone into believing that the only reason why inflation is going so badly is that the Government does not have power over prices. The Government wants to have the whole thing finished by Christmas so that people will be able to settle down and have a nice Christmas box. What utter rubbish! There is no urgency about this. If there had been urgency to introduce this legislation why has the Government embarked upon a policy to let inflation run riot? It has fanned the fires of inflation ever since it has been in office. The Government cannot raise wages, lower working hours and increase leave, however fine these policies may be. But this is what the Government is trying to do. The Government cannot do all this without putting up costs unless there is a corresponding increase in productivity. But we have had exactly the opposite influence. Since the Government has been in office there have been more strikes and more lost man hours than before. Inflation must run riot if the Government implements these measures. 
We have only to look at the Budget, which we are still debating, to see that this document outlines measures which are putting up prices in this country. For example, the Budget increases the price of petrol by 5c a gallon. People who live in Longreach or some other places where I happen to come from will have to pay 7c a gallon extra. Transport is the life-blood of rural and mining industries and any increase in petrol charges must put up transport  costs.  Increased transport costs will have a marked effect on the economy of Australia. On the one hand the Government is quite happy to jack up the price of petrol, which will have pronounced effect on transport costs and which will eventually increase the prices of most commodities, and on the other hand it is trying to panic the Opposition into giving it authority to go to the people and seek from them the right to control prices. 
-The Opposition wants to give the people an opportunity to understand what is on the other side of the coin. It is important that the people be told what they will be in for if they hand over such a power. If the Government is interested in controlling inflation, why did it do the things to which I have referred? Why did it introduce an inflationary Budget? The Government has introduced the most inflationary Budget to be introduced in the Parliament for years. The Government is not interested in controlling inflation, otherwise it would have accepted the offer of the Premiers. The Government is not interested in curbing inflation before Christmas. The interesting thing is how the introduction of price control only will curb inflation. How is the Government going to do it with price control only? Every country in the world which has tried some stopgap measure to control inflation, including the United States of America and Great Britain, has imposed not just a prices freeze but a prices and incomes freeze. The Government is running away from the control of incomes. Its masters outside of the Parliamentthe trade union bosses- have told the Government to lay its hands off the control of incomes. 
What rubbish. When people like  Mr Halfpenny  are encouraged by the Government to make agreements outside of the arbitration court what rot it is to say that the arbitration court pegs wages. What about the Government's offer of salary increases to all Commonwealth public servants? Let us face it that whatever is given to the Commonwealth Public Service flows on naturally to the State public services and eventually to private industry. So what rot it is to talk about wages being controlled at the moment. 
The Australian Country Party will fight this measure right to the bitter end. My Party can see the dangers in it. In talking about this matter in the other place  Mr Whitlam  said that if the Government had the power it seeks it would be able to control land prices. It may be a good idea if the Government were able to control the price of the land that is being sought by young people for the building of a home. But the ramifications of the controlling of land prices must have a far reaching effect on every farmer and grazier in Australia. It has always been accepted that one has to meet one's market. Anybody who has been on the land will know that there are bad times and there are good times. There are times of bad prices and periods of drought in which people on the land are unable to continue and are forced to sell. The Government is trying to tell the people on the land that they will not be able to receive the best market price but that they will have to accept an arbitrary price determined by some so-called expert in Canberra. This nation has been built on private enterprise and the initiative shown by individuals who wanted to better themselves. It has not been built on some great doctrine which says all people are equal but some are more equal than others. I know that that is the way the system operates in the Soviet Union. If you happen to be one of those who run the country under that socialist system you are not too badly off, but you would not like to be one of the 85 per cent who do not run the country. 
Honourable senators opposite should go and have a look for themselves and see how the system works. They may believe that that system is a great one, but I do not. I do not know why those who believe it is the better system remain in this country. I believe that Australia is a better country to live in than Russia. I turn now - 
I have not lost any enthusiasm for having a go at this measure. There are a few things about it that I want to get into. Reverting to the Budget, I ask: What is in it for not only the farmers and the rural producers but also those who happen to live in country towns? It provides for increased postal charges. I hope that events which will take place in the next few days will mean that they will not be given effect. It also provides for increased excise duties on certain commodities. The price of cigarettes and of the different alcoholic beverages will go up as a result of the Budget. That will affect the working people. It will have a particular effect on those who live in the remoter areas of Australia.  Senator McAuliffe  would well understand that in those parts of the country the profit margin is added to the transport costs and the purchase price of the product. Not only will the increase in excise and the increase in transport costs go on to the price of a product but also there will be another percentage on top of that. The ordinary worker in the western areas is certainly going to suffer. He will not have to pay any more for his cigarettes and tobacco because the price for them is the same right throughout the country, but he will have to pay more for certain other products. 
A matter of interest is the proposed export tax on beef. The Government has the power to impose such an export tax, but it does not have the power to control the price of meat products sold within the nation. It will be interesting to see what happens. Certain supporters of the Government who regard themselves as being experts in the subject of primary industry have expressed views about this matter.  Mr Whan  is one. I saw him being interviewed on television the other day. He said that a very high export tax should be imposed to bring the local price of meat down. A figure of as high as 20c per lb was mentioned. That must have been very interesting to the cattle producers in the Northern Territory and in northern and western Queensland, where there are large cattle numbers but very small local populations. As much as 90 to 95 per cent of the meat produced in those areas is exported. Those cattle producers are apparently to have a tax of 20c per lb imposed on their exports. 
-Mr Whan. 
All right; what does  Senator McLaren  think it will be? There is no doubt that an export tax is going to be imposed, and a high one at that, in order to try and bring down the home consumption price. Those people who are fortunate enough to be able to produce meat for export, particularly for the United States market, are the ones who will have to bear the brunt of the whole of this tax and who will have the price of their product reduced accordingly. It will have very little effect at all on those who are fortunate enough to be in closely settled areas and near the densely populated areas of Sydney and Melbourne. The proposed tax will have little effect at all on the price of beef on the home market. The price will still be determined by the demand. Until there is increased production to meet the demand the price will not come down. This academic Government is going to bring down a measure which will have a crippling effect on people who live in remote areas but which will not bring about the desired effect. The Government has tried various things, but it has failed because it has no practical knowledge of the operation of the industry. Despite that it is asking us to give it the power to control everything around the place willy-nilly. Thank God those who wrote the Constitution of Australia have been able to prevent that sort of thing from happening. It is the responsibility of honourable senators on this side of the House- the only ones in this Parliament who have knowledge of these things- to inform the people of Australia that they should have no part of this measure. 
It is amazing. When did it start? It started on Monday. When did they have that Caucus meeting? 
-A Caucus revolt and by a very close margin they decided they would do this thing. It was only last Tuesday that the Government even thought about this measure. It did not think about it for long; it did not think about it before it brought it in. Now, without having given any thought to something that came off the top of its head on Tuesday, it brings it in here and without any thought of what the ramifications might be, asks us, trying to panic us, to rush this question to the people and to let them decide. The people did not elect us to this place to make such irresponsible decisions. It is our responsibility to investigate this measure before we involve the Australian people in another spending spree. A referendum will cost moneydo not have any doubts about that. Before we start squandering the public purse we should sit down here and thoroughly investigate all the possibilities. If we are able to control inflation without wasing money on a referendum, by taking up the offer of the Premiers and taking the powers temporarily - 
I know that  Mr Whitlam  has said he is not interested in it, so he has probably not told the honourable senators about it. I know that they made offers to him. He hates so much the idea of these terrible States having a little say in the running of this country - 
He probably has not told the Minister, but every State Premier has agreed to join with the Commonwealth in producing a plan to combat inflation and, if necessary, to hand over temporarily to the Commonwealth those powers necessary to make operative any plan that is drawn up. 
-The Minister should go and ask  Mr Whitlam,  for obviously he has not been prepared to tell everyone. 

 Senator Cavanagh- Did Bjelke-Petersen make an offer? 
Yes, he has made an offer too. I come back to the matter of meat prices. This measure is a typical example of the off-the-cuff, shooting-from-the-hip type of administration of this Government. It would be disastrous if we lost the export income that has been built up by our meat exporters and by the meat industry over the years. It has taken a long time, but when we can get these industries into full gear and full production to earn for this nation a tremendous amount of overseas exchange, this Government wants - 
-You will not keep it, because production will not be sufficient. The Government is just deterring people from producing, and if it does deter them from producing, the demand will not be met. The Government must help these people to produce and to produce quickly. I admit that it takes a while to increase cattle numbers and to increase beef production; but it does not take a long time to increase mutton production. This can be achieved in a short time with a well thought out plan. The amazing thing is the when the Government mentions meat prices today anyone would think that what they were in 1968 or 1955 or 1 949 were just way out. As a matter of fact, a graph shows the price of beef- this is the one we are mainly concerned about- since the previous Government came to power in 1949 to be pretty well parallel with average weekly earnings. But there is a great hue and cry that beef prices are too high. If one looks at the graph of the prices for mutton, pork and chicken- these are some of the meats that people eat- one sees that the prices are well below average weekly earnings. Why should one industry be picked on when it now has an opportunity to develop? It has built up markets all around the world and it has now an opportunity to develop a terrific export market, to get itself organised and so do something for this country as the wool industry did for 100 years. But this Government wants to kick it in the pants. 
What is the use? It makes me sick to think of what has been done over the years to develop this nation and its industries and the way that many people have battled through droughts, fires and floods- for there is a lot of adversity in those remote areas under very trying conditions. And now that these people have an opportunity to stabilise their properties and their assets and to do something worth while for the future and for their children, they find that this Government has no interest whatsoever in the rural areas. It has made that quite clear ever since it has been in office and particularly in this Budget. This Government wants to destroy these industries on the assumption that meat prices have gone mad. They have not gone any higher than other prices in the community. They did jump quickly in a matter of one or two years but they have been slow getting to that point. I can remember selling mutton for 5c a lb only three or four years ago. Sheep were selling at 5c a lb and mutton was very cheap. The producers are now getting only what they deserve, the prices they are entitled to receive. Some of them will admit: 'In the long term interests of the beef industry in Australia we do not want prices to go higher too quickly.' Most producers admit that. But the way to prevent that happening is to increase production and to increase the flow to the market and therefore to satisfy the demand. I want at this stage to get on to another aspect. 

 - Senator Cavanagh last night gave us a great dissertation on how a business should be run: Firstly, you work out the costs and then you add a reasonable margin for profit, and that should be the price. If you happen to put on twice as many people as are necessary and they are half as efficient as they should be, you take that cost and you add a margin to it. If it is a percentage margin it would pay to have the most inefficient group you could find, because the margin would be based on those costs. It was an amazing dissertation; I had never heard anything like it in my life. Many Australian industries, particularly primary industries, have been built through hard work and efficiency and have been able to produce at prices lower than those in any other nation in the world despite the high standard of living in Australia. Why is it we have been able to meet world prices in wool? Another interesting thing about beef is that the beef industry and the meat industry generally have been looking for years for this opportunity to create a bit of a boost in their economy so that they can develop their properties. But the actions of this Government in the last 9 months through revaluations of the dollar have cut prices on the United States market, our main market, by 25 per cent. If we had not had these revaluations, the price that producers back here were obtaining on the American market would be 25 per cent higher. The Government is not satisfied with giving producers a kick in the pants to the extent of 25 per cent; it now wants to bring in other measures to reduce further the incomes of these people. 
We on the Opposition side will fight this measure. There is no question that it is a panic measure. It is a smokescreen, an endeavour to secure for this socialist Government powers to bring about its socialist program for the control of the means of production, distribution and exchange. The Government knows that it cannot control prices unless it has the power to do so. It knows that it cannot get that power from the elected representatives of the people, so it uses the back door method of seeking a referendum in the hope that the people, who are very concerned about inflation and who have been sold this great pup that the be all and end all and the cure of inflation is for the Commonwealth to have power over prices, will carry the referendum. What rot. The Opposition will fight this Bill. I hope it ends up in the waste paper basket so quickly that it does not matter. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Labour aware that irresponsible strikes throughout Australia are seriously disrupting transport, communications and public services, thereby seriously inconveniencing the general public? Is it a fact that the Government will not take action against these strikes because it has condoned trade union demands for increased wages prior to the proposed referendum on prices? 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Australian managing director of the canned food company H. J. Heinz Co. Australia Ltd,  Mr Kellow,  said yesterday that Australians would have to learn to adjust to synthetic food because natural food threatened to become even dearer and in shorter supply? Is the Minister concerned about that prospect? Does he agree that greater production of natural food should be encouraged? If so, what does the Government intend to do about it? 
The Australian Country Party associates itself with this urgency motion because the Australian Country Party believes great emphasis should be placed on defence. There is no doubt that since 2 December many tragic decisions have been made by this socialist Government but one of the most tragic, I believe, is the effect it has had on the defence forces of this country. The Government has run down the defence forces to such an extent that they will take a long time to recover. There is a mistaken idea that defence expenditure can be turned on and off like a tap. Some people have the idea that if there is a situation of little risk- it has been said by the advisers of the present Government that there is no possible risk to this nation for 10 to 15 yearsit is a waste of money to spend money on defence and that what the Government should do is to spend it in some other avenue. This is the very thing that the Government should not do with the defence forces. 
In the first place, this applies particularly to the Army for there the Government is dealing with individual people most of whom are young and are making a career of the Army. They want to know beforehand where they are to go for the future and if the Government starts cutting down on the numbers of establishments it will put into the minds of these people doubts as to where their future lies, whether they are to be allowed to continue in the armed Services or required to move out and find their own way in civilian life in positions for which they have not been trained. This is when the lack of morale starts creeping in- and there is no doubt that there is a great lack of morale in the defence forces today. It takes years to train a senior officer and a senior noncommissioned officer. If the Government runs down the forces or if these people decide to leave the forces because for one reason or another there is no future for them, it will take years to replace them. 
It is all very well for the government of the day to say: 'Our advisers say it will be 10 to 15 years before there is any forseeable threat to this nation '. But when one pins down the top military people they all admit that none of them is prepared to forecast more than 5 years ahead, and some restrict forecasts to as short a period as two or three years ahead. But they all agree that it takes 7 or 8 years to build up the armed Services if they have been allowed to run down. So the Government has no idea what will happen in 3 or 4 years and whether it will require armed Ser1 vices. If it does require them it will take 7 years to get them into top condition and top form. We must maintain at all times an armed force which can be readily taken into battle and be the nucleus or the base of an armed force if we are attacked. But we must keep the top officerstrained men- and we must keep moving into the armed forces new, modern weapons at a fairly regular rate so that the pipeline of munitions production and maintenance people is maintained. The Government just cannot operate the defence forces with obsolete weapons and it cannot expect maintenance people or trained experts in this field to be able to switch straight on to new and modern equipment. It just cannot do it. 
This is what amuses me when people say there is no threat. Who is going to threaten Australia? None of us could say who is going to threaten Australia today. Even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he was in Canada recently stated that he could have some feeling for the Chinese in exploding nuclear weapons because they feared they were under threat. From whom are they under threat? The Soviet Union, obviously. No one who has any knowledge of military matters would say that the only threat would come on the border, that the only fighting would take place on the border, because everybody knows that the Soviet Union has nuclear submarines spread all over the world. It has bases everywhere. If the Chinese feel that there is a threat from the Soviet Union then obviously they will try to match those particular bases and a situation could develop where the confrontation will be not on the border between Russia and China but in some remote part of the Pacific. The sea lanes which affect both countries could be in dispute and that is where the battle could take place. If the sea lanes were affected it would bring in another nation very smartly, because one of the strongest nations- Japan- is dependent completely on the sea lanes for her whole existence. She has to bring in materials from outside.  Senator Devitt  who is interjecting knows this as well as I do. There is no doubt that the Japanese would get very toey if there were a conflict in the sea lanes of South-East Asia. So we all hope that we will not be involved in an issue like this, with nuclear submarines in the Pacific and Indian oceans and ourselves in the middle. We must be careful when we have a government like the present Government which is isolationist in its point of view and wants to withdraw from its commitments and wants to defend Australia with a Fortress Australia policy. It is only natural that we must have much stronger armed forces. 
I would like to bring to the attention of the Senate the danger that has resulted from the defence cuts. I not only want to talk about the numbers affected, because that is not so important, but also about training and equipment. I am very disturbed about the cutback in flying hours for Royal Australian Air Force personnel. As an ex-RAAF pilot I can appreciate the effect this will have on the RAAF. A pilot must accumulate a certain number of flying hours each week so that he can maintain normal control over his aircraft. A pilot who has not flown for some considerable time finds it difficult to maintain his control. It takes him some time to familiarise himself with the normal practices of taking off, landing and general flying. As a result of these cutbacks pilots will not be able to spend time in front line operational training. It costs something like $250,000 to train a Mirage pilot and maybe more to train an FI 1 1 pilot. If Royal Australian Air Force pilots decide that they are not getting the flying that they want they will turn to civilian flying. What savings will the Government make by cutting down their flying time by a few hours? The Government should realise that if pilots who cost millions of dollars to train decide that they have had enough of the Air Force, the Air Force will lose expertise which will take years to get back. 
The Royal Australian Air Force also stands to lose key maintenance personnel as a result of this cutback in flying hours. It takes a lot of people on the ground to keep one aircraft in the air. It is not easy to train these people to the required level of expertise. If these personnel does not have the equipment to work on their time will be wasted and the Air Force will not be getting the benefit of their expertise. The wages that are being paid to them will be another waste. I am very concerned about the cutback in flying hours not only because of the loss of morale of Air Force personnel but also the fact of the wastage that must occur. 
I wonder, as  Senator Sim  said earlier, whether we will ever learn the lesson of sending untrained people with inferior weapons into battle. I can recall that some of my colleagues had to fight in Wirraways against Zeros in New Guinea during the last war. It is interesting to note that the pacifists and those who believe we will never be attacked are almost always silent when we face an aggressor. It is always the best young people in our country who have to go and risk their lives at odds which they should not be asked to face. I think it is absolutely necessary that we make sure that in the future - 
I believe that we should have learned the lessons of the past. But we have not learned them. People are prepared to forget those lessons. I believe that those of us who remember these things should point them out from time to time. It is absolutely wrong that a nation with the standard of living that we have cannot afford a bit more to ensure that the defence forces are maintained so that in time of aggression we can defend ourselves. We should be able to make sure that we never again send untrained young people into battle to fight with inferior weapons. On the last occasion this happened they had no chance. The pilots who flew Wirraways against Zeros in New Guinea during the last war had no chance. In fact, I think only one survived. These are things we should not ask our people to put up with. Who is to say that we will not be in New Guinea again in the foreseeable future? Anything could happen in New Guinea or Indonesia at any time. It is all right to say that the situation is stable now. But no one in this room can say what the position will be in South East Asia, Indonesia or New Guinea in four or five years time. What does the Government intend to do? It proposes to run our forces down despite the fact that they willi take 7 years to build up again. But something might happen within 5 years. History could repeat itself and our gallant young men may have to go into battle without the equipment and training they should have. 
I want to mention another matter that has been mentioned by  Senator Bishop  on half a dozen occasions. Indeed, I think it was mentioned twice today. I refer to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund.  Senator Devitt, Senator Byrne  and I were members of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation. When that Committee brought down its report we knew that the recommendations contained in the report would have to undergo a great deal of investigation. We had introduced a completely new concept and no one, including the Commonwealth Actuary, could really tell us what our proposals would cost. No government, whether it be your Government or our Government, was prepared to endorse something without costing and testing it. We, as a committee, had no way of testing it. We had to depend on the experts to do that. What happened was that the McMahon Government decided that the DFRB report would be held up for a while pending investigation. Of course, the present Government, having gained office while the investigation was going on, was able to do what the McMahon Government would have done anyway. It was fortunate that the present Government was in the box seat. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! Can you relate your remarks to the motion before the Chair, senator? 

 - Senator Bishop made a point of outlining the good things that were done by this Government to improve morale and the conditions of service of the armed forces, and the DFRB scheme is a very important part of those conditions of service. I emphasise that what has been done by this Government would have been done by the previous Government had it been in office. 
Well, it would have got around to it, just as the present Government has got around to it. The Government got around to it after the Treasury, the Department of Defence and everyone else had had a look at it. As a matter of fact, one of the main reasons why the McMahon Government held it up was because the Defence Department itself and representatives of the armed forces wanted to have a look at it. They wanted to ensure that all personnel were treated well. That is why this measure was held up. 
It so happened, of course, that there was a change of government on 2 December. When the investigation had been completed and the Treasury said 'Yes, you can go ahead', another government was in power to implement the decisions of the Committee. So I object to the statement that the previous Government did not intend to carry out the recommendations. Indeed, the Gorton Government, prompted by  Mr Jess  and other members of the House of Representatives, formed this Committee. The Committee brought down its findings and I assure honourable senators that we had been given an assurance before we went to the last election that once the Treasury and the Department of Defence had investigated the recommendations - 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT  (Senator Brown)-Order!  The honourable senator's time has expired. Before I call  Senator Devitt  might I tender an apology to you,  Senator Maunsell,  for intervening and taking up the time which you had at your disposal. I was not aware of the remarks made by  Senator Bishop,  otherwise I would not have raised the matter. 
I ask the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence whether it is a fact that Navy patrols of Australia 's north-west coastline have been suspended or reduced as a result of defence expenditure cuts. If so, is this long coastline now totally unprotected against whatever activity a foreign power might choose to undertake, including illegal fishing and drugrunning? 
I want to speak for only a short period in order to add to the protests of honourable senators who represent rural areas. The proposed increases in postal rates will affect the rural sector far more than any other sector in the community. They are another incentive for people living in remote rural areas to go to the cities. The Government should be encouraging people to move the other way; it should be encouraging decentralisation. I want to refer to the 'Evening Advocate' which is published in Innisfail, Queensland.  Senator Wood  has already mentioned this newspaper and I am sorry that I was not present when the matter first arose. I have been associated with this newspaper. Many country newspapers are published not as profit making concerns but as a service to the people. If they were not published the people would have to rely on city dailies or city weeklies being sent to their areas and this would cost them a lot of money. A local newspaper gives them some information about what is going on in the world. It provides a service to them. Anyone who has been in the office of the 'Evening Advocate' would know that it is not a great money spinner. It operates under pretty austere conditions. Perhaps in the past it has been able to take advantage of a service which has been a burden on the taxpayers- I do not know- but it also has been of service to the Army camps and other organisations in that area. 
Yes. If we open up this field we could go everywhere. This newspaper has been of service to the people of Innisfail. Even if it has been able to continue publication only because it received a cheaper rate it still has provided something for the 1 7,000 people in that area. I know that the Government has offered these people a telex system but these new postal rates are to apply from 1 October. An organisation like the 'Evening Advocate' does not have the finance or facilities at the moment to change its operations overnight. I appeal to the responsible Minister at least to give those concerned time to change over to the new system. It is not as if this organisation is a great profit maker. It operates under very humble circumstances. It is the only evening newspaper outside Brisbane and it cannot take advantage of services which the morning papers can use. Therefore this newspaper is operating under a special disadvantage. I ask the responsible Minister to see whether he can give special consideration to a newspaper that is providing a service to a very deserving section of our community. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry and it relates to the 2 questions that have just been asked. Has the Minister received a great number of telegrams and letters from irate beef producers throughout Australia directed against the proposed export tax on beef? Have a large number of these protests come from northern Australia where producers depend almost entirely on the export market? In view of the decision of Cabinet to reject the recommendation of the Joint Committee on Prices, will the Minister agree that the factual evidence of the objections of these producers influenced the Cabinet decision? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. With wool prices falling at each sale in recent weeks and the report that the Australian Wool Corporation has increased its purchases of wool, will the Minister inform the Senate what steps are being taken by the Government to provide adequate finance for the Corporation to enable it to operate effectively in the event of another recession in the wool industry? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Has the Minister seen the report of the evidence of Professor Gates before the National Population Inquiry in Bisbane in which Professor Gates advocated congestion taxes and metropolitan residential taxes to assist decentralisation? Would the Minister indicate whether the Government has given consideration to a similar proposition? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, concerns a statement by the Minister, which was reported in the Queensland Press, that there was an outbreak of virus influenza at Edward River in Queensland and that he was trying to provide assistance because the present aid from the Royal Flying Doctor Service was insufficient. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the nature of that assistance? Is it a fact that the sister in charge at Edward River did not consider this socalled epidemic serious enough to request medical help? Was assistance sought from the Royal Flying Doctor Service? If so, what was the reply? Was the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs consulted? If so, what was its reply? What is the situation at present? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that a Murray Grey bull considered to be worth more than $8,000 will be presented by the Australian Government to the Chinese Government? Is it also a fact that the bull will be transported to China by a Royal Australian Air Force Hercules aircraft at an estimated cost of $20,000? If so, will the Minister inform the Senate whether the transport cost will come from the vote of the Prime Minister's Department or from that of the RAAF which has already suffered seriously from a curtailment of funds and flying hours? 
-Did the Minister for Primary Industry say in Tasmania last weekend that the farm debt situation had improved? Did he also say that increased farm income had resulted in renewed confidence in the future of rural industries and that farmers were now more willing to borrow money?  W.Hl  the Minister tell the Senate, in round figures, by what amount the farm debt has been reduced and by how much borrowing has increased? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health the following question: In view of the concern being expressed by farmers and graziers, particularly in northern Australia, over the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in areas adjacent to our north, will the Minister bring to the attention of the Minister for Health and the Cabinet the need for a clear policy on how to combat the disease if an outbreak occurs in this country? Will the Minister state clearly what compensation measures are envisaged and what co-operation with the States is planned so that any outbreak will be quickly detected and contained? Will the Minister agree that any confusion in these areas could result in an outbreak not being reported, thus making eradication difficult and costly? 
Has the Minister for Primary Industry seen a statement by a producer member of the Australian Meat Board to the effect that next year graziers will face steep rises in sheep and cattle levies payable to the Australian Meat Board as a result of the halving of the Federal Government's export promotion subsidy? If this is correct, will the Minister agree that increased costs to the meat industry will not help to increase production which is necessary if we are to meet the demands of both the home market and the export market? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy whether it is a fact that the Government has approved revaluation compensation for the asbestos company Woodsreef Mines Ltd? Is this the first case of revaluation compensation to a mining company being approved? Is it also a fact that negotiations are continuing to change the control of the company which is owned 58 per cent by a Canadian group and the rest by the Australian public? Is the Australian Industry Development Corporation involved in these negotiations? Finally, is it to be taken that revaluation compensation to mining companies will be determined by whether the companies are controlled by overseas or Australian interests? 
The Australian Country Party will support the foreshadowed amendment distributed by  Senator Sim.  It is very interesting to hear the speeches in this chamber tonight. When one boils it all down there is very little difference between what honourable senators are saying and thinking. We have to get to the nitty gritty of this and I think it is essential from this Parliament's point of view and from the Australian people's point of view that a settlement of the Middle East issue be brought about and maintained. I listened to  Senator Wheeldon  with a great deal of interest. I do not think that I have heard a speech from  Senator Wheeldon  in this chamber that was so even handed, particularly when he was in Opposition. It may be that that is an indication that the Government after 23 years in Opposition has finally realised that it now has the responsibility of conducting the foreign affairs of this nation and that it cannot make great statements designed to gain votes or which may have some ideological flavour to them. The Government has to get down to the nitty gritty and decide who is responsible for action and who is not. I believe that this is also the role that we in this Parliament should play. 
This issue, which has been boiling for a long time, is not a local issue but we very nearly came to a third world conflict over it. After all, when there is one super power increasing its support for one nation on one side and another super power increasing its support for a nation on the other side, unless something drastic happens, we could be in a situation where we could not stop a conflict and then we would all be involved. It is all very well to believe that the United Nations is the be-all and end-all in keeping world peace. I heard  Senator Wheeldon  say: 'Well, OK, Israel was created by the United Nations so therefore it should obey everything that the United Nations asks of it'. But history has proved that while the United Nations might take pious views on certain things and insist on certain things it does not have the power to carry out these views. The United Nations has no control over issues in which the super powers are involved. There is no doubt that the 2 super powers, and not the United Nations, decided whether or not the conflict in the Middle East would go on and whether that conflict would involve the rest of the world. I think that this point has to be recognised. If Israel had been dependent on the United Nations to decide the issue in this conflict, that country could have been wiped out. We have to realise that this is the situation. 
I agree with statements that were made in the Senate this afternoon and this evening that we must ensure that among the nations of the world Israel is recognised as a nation within the Middle East. We have to convince the other states in the Middle East that Israel is part of that region. We have to ensure that once the boundaries have been decided they will be maintained, notwithstanding the threat that arises from time to time of aggression from either side. I say still that it is the super powers who in the long term will be in the box seat to decide what will happen. It is not much good the United Nations deciding where the boundaries will be when one side or the other is being armed by an outside super power. It is quite obvious that when this happens the other side will take action to protect itself. This is why I believe that the amendment foreshadowed by  Senator Sim  gives Australia the opportunity to set the seal for some peace in the future. I do not think that much good will be done by pointing to who is at fault in this conflict, who was at fault last year or who was at fault the year before that. I do not believe that we will do much good by asserting that certain groups from either side are conducting guerrilla tactics and so on. Our role is to ensure that Israel is recognised as a state within the Middle East area. We have to ensure that all other states in this area recognise it also. We should make every endeavour to ensure that once boundaries are decided on they will be maintained. 
In view of what has been said in the Senate tonight on this subject I see no reason why I should continue my remarks at great length. I believe that this Government has a role to play on behalf of the Australian people. It has a duty to put our point of view. It is all very well to condemn the Soviet Union and the United States of America in this conflict. The fact is that it was the Arab states that made the first move and it was the Soviet Union that assisted the Arab states before the United States came in. If the Government is to be consistent in its attitude towards aggression and its belief that there should be peace in the world, it should forget its outside allegiances and state clearly that it will oppose those who condone and support aggression. The Government should lay this attitude clearly on the line. I support the foreshadowed amendment to be moved by  Senator Sim. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that Australia's much publicised $250m sugar agreement with the People 's Republic of China is considerably enhanced by the fact that it is a long term agreement enabling the Australian industry to plan well in advance? Is it also a fact that the Minister for Overseas Trade said recently that a new wheat agreement with China could be reviewed in the event of a change of government in the next 3 years? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the same reservation applies to the new sugar agreement? As a change of government is most likely in view of widespread dissatisfaction with the present Government, does this mean that the new agreement, which is to operate for 5 years from 1 975, in fact may not have the long term effect being claimed? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it true that  Mr Tom  Burns, a Labor member of the Queensland Parliament, travelled with the Prime Minister's party to mainland China? If so, in what capacity was he included in the party and who paid his expenses? 
-My question is directed to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry. Is the Government proposing to implement a scheme for the full acquisition of the Australian wool clip at the earliest opportunity? Is it the intention of the Minister for Primary Industry, on his present trip overseas, to discuss with wool buyers and manufacturers ways and means of selling wool under this system? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate noted the decision of Comalco Ltd to abandon the proposed alumina refinery at Weipa in north Queensland? Has he also noted that it may be built in another country in the south west Pacific region? Will the Minister inform the Senate as to how many projects which could be of great benefit to remote areas may be discontinued as a result of the economic climate in this country and the Government's policy towards mining companies? 
I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate whether it is a fact that the Minister for the Northern Territory and 
Minister for Northern Development has been asked by Cabinet to inquire into and report upon the proposed tourist complex of the Japanese businessman,  Mr Iwasaki?  If so, when is the report expected to be placed before Cabinet? Will the Minister ensure that the decision of Cabinet is released to Parliament as soon as possible? 
Will the Minister for the Media inform the Senate when the television transmitters based at towns west of Rockhampton will commence transmission, and what is the reason for the delay in the commencement of transmission? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that  Mr Pai  as Chinese Minister of Overseas Trade conducted trade negotiations with the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr Cairns?  Did he visit Australia as the guest of  Dr Cairns?  Has he since been purged? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows on from a question I asked yesterday about the Chinese Trade Minister,  Mr Pai  or, to give him his full name, Pai Hsiang-Kuo. Does the Minister recall that  Mr Pai  came to Australia last May to sign a trade agreement with Australia? Would not the Minister, as Special Minister for State, meet such an important visitor in the eyes of the Government? Has the Minister seen a report by Jeff Penberthy in the Melbourne Press of 8 November, written from Peking, in which he said that  Mr Pai  had been replaced? Would the Minister find out the facts in this case and report to the Senate? In particular, would he report on the validity of the trade agreement between the 2 countries. 
The Australian Country Party welcomes this Bill and will give it its wholehearted support. As was mentioned by  Senator Marriott,  thus Bill implements a recommendation that was made by the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. There is no doubt from the evidence received by the Committee that in the past there has been a tendency by the public in general to treat the illnesses of alcoholism and drug dependence more or less as criminal offences. But people who are dependent on alcohol and who cannot help themselves are suffering from an illness and must be given treatment which will return them to a normal life. The treatment of alcoholics and drug dependent people in the past has been left in the hands of police officers. People suffering from these illnesses have gone through the courts and then have been palmed off either to gaols or institutions, many of which do not have the personal interests of these people at heart. In fact, many of these places do not have much interest in these people at all. 
The Committee discovered that many alcoholics and drug dependent people went to a lot of voluntary organisations made up of people who understood the problem involved and endeavoured to help these people. However, we were told that unfortunately these organisations did not have access to finance to enable them to carry out the great job that they were doing. That is why I am pleased to see that voluntary organisations will be given consideration in this Bill. I believe that we must step up our education of the general public that alcoholism and drug dependence are illnesses. We have to make the general public aware that these people have to be given the type of care, kindness and devotion by the people who understand the problem and who care for them that will enable them to live a normal life in the community. As  Senator Marriott  pointed out, there was a long debate on this Bill in the other place. We are all very pleased to see the Government introduce this measure and, as I said at the outset, the Country Party gives the legislation its whole support. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Is it a fact that officers of his Department recently visited Lavarack Barracks at Townsville to assess the availability of Army accommodation for unemployed civilians? Was the visit made prior to a recommendation to the Minister that portion of the barracks area be taken over as a hostel for single Aborigines from Palm Island? Has the Minister received any complaints from Army personnel about the placing of civilians on an important military base? Is it a fact that the Army in Townsville has had difficulty in adequately housing its troops? In view of future cuts in the defence forces of Australia, is the Government now contemplating converting important military bases into hostels for unemployed civilians? 
I  will be opposing this Bill. I opposed it some years ago for certain reasons when it was introduced by the Gorton Government and of course, those reasons have been manifested since this Government came into power. Whether members of the Government party like it or not, we have a federal system in this country and our responsibility as the national parliament, and the particular responsibility of this House, is to see that the rights of the States are preserved. There is no reason in the world why this legislation should be introduced when the Federal Government could have gone to the States and worked out their areas of difference. Let us face it, there are certain areas which must come under State jurisdiction and there are certain areas which must come under Federal jurisdiction if our system is to work. The Government is now putting before us a matter on which a determination has to be made one way or another. 
Surely if federalism means anything in this country there should be an attempt by governments to resolve their differences before the matter is thrown into the courts for the legal eagles to have a go at it. There has been no effort whatever to do this by the Australian Government since the Senate put off the Bill in the last autumn session. We deferred it until this session. The Government did not bring it on in the first week or two of the session but introduced a separate Bill which is identical with the one we deferred last May.  Senator O  'Byrne eventually came down from orbit but while he was up there he made a few statements. He said that those of us who want to go to the States are being completely negative in our approach, which is to resolve these matters with the States. But what is more negative than his approach, which is to hand the matter over to the High Court for determination one way or another? In most of the honourable senator's speech he attacked the States and said that they were incapable of doing this and incapable of doing that. The people who elected the governments of the States are the same people who put him here. I hope that he goes back and tells those people that he is not satisfied with the way they vote at State elections because he believes that the people who govern the various States are incapable of doing their job. We are endeavouring and have endeavoured all along to bring about some arrangement whereby the States and the Commonwealth will co-operate. If there are areas of difference I believe that most of them could be resolved in some other way. 
What will happen if the States win this argument? Where will the great argument of the centralists over on the other side fall then? One of the main reasons why I am opposing this Bill today is the centralist policy of the present Australian Government. Not only does the Government want to strip the States of all power as has been indicated in different legislation which has been before this chamber, but also on Saturday week at a referendum the Australian people have to decide whether this Australian Parliament and Government will be given full control over prices and wages. Of course, only half the Government supports one issue and half supports the other issue. What will it mean if the Australian people support the referendum on prices? It will be one more step in sealing the fate of the States. If this Government has the economic weapon of control of prices and wages it can manipulate not only industries in this country but also the people. Of course, it will whittle away any powers which the States might have. I believe that  Senator Durack  put up a very good case on behalf of those of us who are opposing this Bill. 
In Queensland we have the Great Barrier Reef with thousands of islands scattered around off the shores of the State. Who will have jurisdiction? Wi)l the State have jurisdiction over the islands scattered around and will the Commonwealth have jurisdiction over the waters in between those islands? If we have a confrontation with the States- and this is what this Government is heading for- how will we resolve all the difficulties which will result? Under the circumstances we might have a Commonwealth set-up in the fishing industry with the Commonwealth controlling certain health regulations for the fishing fleets. When the fleets come to shore to deliver their catch the States might say: 'No, the hygiene conditions on board do not satisfy us. You will have to take your fish somewhere else'. I can see these sorts of confrontations happening. The Commonwealth Parliament and the present Commonwealth Government will bring them about because of their highhanded attitude towards the States. I do not propose to detain this chamber because we have other important legislation before us. I have spoken on this issue before. I have made it quite clear where I stand and that is for consultation with the States. I shall vote against this legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) It is a fact that the Government has approved revaluation compensation for the asbestos company, Woodsreef Mines Ltd. 
Is this the first case of re-valuation compensation for a mining company. 
It is also a fact that negotiations are continuing to change control of the company, 58 per cent of which is owned by a Canadian group and the remainder by the Australian public. 
Is the Australian Industry Development Corporation involved in these negotiations. 
Will re-valuation compensation for mining companies be determined by whether the companies are controlled by overseas or Australian interests. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred for inquiry and report to the Senate Standing Committee for Social Environment: 
Whether adequate consideration is being given to the environment and ecological factors in Aboriginal advancement programs financed from the Aboriginal Advancement Trust Account and the Capital Fund for Aboriginal Enterprises. 
Whether the above Committee should report on the social and environmental aspects of all future Aboriginal enterprises financed by the Australian Government. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry whether he said at a Press conference in London last week that wool had regained popularity because of dissatisfaction with man-made fibres. Did he also say that he was concerned at suggestions in Britain and Europe that wool would become a luxury item because of price uncertainty? Does the Minister agree that while the production of wool is the world remains constant, the demand for apparel  fibres  is increasing at a considerable rate and that the inability to meet the demand is the main reason for wool becoming a luxury product, with price rises an obvious result? When the Minister says that he wants to avoid wool becoming a luxury item because of price, does he mean that the wool clip should be controlled by a compulsory acquisition scheme and sold direct to manufacturers at a fixed price? While overseas did the Minister discuss with the wool trade the possibility of such a scheme? 
I wholeheartedly support this urgency motion. I make it clear that the Australian Country Party which I represent in this Parliament wholeheartedly believes in the federal system of government in the free enterprise system that has operated in this country since Federation, lt believes also that people in remote areas should have reasonable say in the government of the country. The contrary position put by members and supporters of the Government is that all the say should be concentrated in Canberra and that Sydney and Melbourne should have the power to control. Let us look at the Australian Labor Party's platform and policy. I know that it believes in centralism because this has been part of its platform and policy for years. It believes in the abolition of the States. In fact it believes in the abolition of the House of this Parliament which represents the States. 
-Senator McLaren knows very well where it is written into his Party's policy. The Labor Party's socialisation platform seeks to socialise the means of production, distribution and exchange. These are its policies and in order to implement them it must have a centralist system. It cannot have autonomous State bodies or local authorities operating independently; it must have a centralist system. In order to implement its policy of socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange, we have had since 2 December a whole host of legislation pushed into this House aimed at doing just that. 
-To implement the Government's policy. Do honourable senators opposite want me to repeat it? Their policy is for socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. The Government has introduced into this Parliament legislation to control fuel resources, mineral resources, health, education and Aborigines in this country. Name it, and the Government has done it. Of course, in respect of the people my Party has represented over the years- the primary producers of this country- the Government is doing everything in its power to bring them to heel and under control. The Budget introduced by this Government is the worst in the history of the national Parliament for the primary industries of Australia. Unfortunately, because the primary producers of this country are individual owners of their properties- free thinkers-this Government wants nothing to do with them. The Government knows that these people will never support its socialisation platform and the centralist powers that it wants to achieve. We have seen the legislation that has come before this House. In the next 10 days or so the Government will try to fool the people of Australia with a referendum seeking price control powers. If this is not an example of trying to get centralist control I do not know what is. The Government knows that if it put its true polices before the people of Australia they would be rejected out of hand. 

 -But Senator McLaren's Party does not put its true policies at election time. That is the interesting pan. It brings them in only through the back door, as it is seeking to do by way of the prices and incomes referendum to be held on Saturday week in the hope that the people will be fooled into giving powers to this centralist Government under the guise that these powers will control inflation. Of course, the powers will be used in all sorts of directions. I invite honourable senators to consider some of the legislation that has come before this Parliament- legislation designed to control industry and the people of this country. I suppose the prime example is the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill, whereby the Government aimed to bring industry to its knees by not only waiving penalties but also by giving to trade union leaders and their stooges exemption from civil action and by making union amalgamations easier. Once it is able by these means to place industry in a situation of difficulty the Government has only to use the powers of taxation and tariffs to put industry into further difficulties. 
If the people of this nation are prepared to give the Government price control powers, the Government will have the final weapon it needs to bring industry right down. The Government has brought into this Parliament new and reformed legislation relating to the Australian Industry Development Corporation to enable the AIDC to be used as an instrument to take over when industry fails. This is the great socialisation platform being put into effect. I compliment the State of Queensland and its Premier in particularhe has always been denigrated in this Parliament- for the stand he has made for the people of Queensland. I instance the stand he made in London when this Government tried to take away the right of appeal to the Privy Council, and the stand he is making now in trying to pass through the Queensland Parliament legislation in an endeavour to safeguard Queensland and its people from this control which the Government seeks to obtain through the prices referendum. Of course, that action has been rubbished by members on the other side of the House.  Senator Wheeldon  tried to fob it off. I do not know whether  Senator Wheeldon  believes in the socialist platform and the socialisation of the members of production, distribution and exchange, though I understand that the does believe in it, but he speaks about the United Nations and of the legislation the Government has brought in which conforms to the United Nations charter. 

 Senator James McClelland had to pick on somebody or attach a tag to somebody and it was Ronald Reagan. What the devil has Ronald Reagan got to do with the centralising of government in Australia? This nation has to realise that it is being fooled by this Government and by a lot of legislation being introduced which may not appear on the surface to be very dangerous. In fact, in some cases it appears to be acceptable. 
But when we take all this legislation into consideration we find that the Labor Party platform for the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange is starting to fall into line. By throwing out legislation in this chamber we have challenged the government to go to the people and say honestly that this is what it believes in. It believes in centralised government. It believes in the complete socialisation of industry in this country. I say to the Government: 'Go to the people and say that. See what your answer will be. ' But, no, it is not prepared to go to the people until it has to. It is implementing its policies through the back door. I heard two previous speakers from this side of the chamber mention the 2-man Government. I say '2-man Government' because there is little doubt that if the Labor Party gets into Government again it will be a one-man government, not for a few weeks but for a few months and even longer. I wonder how the Caucus of the Labor Party will react to that. 
-The honourable senator has not been very vocal on the matter. I notice that certain messages come out every now and again showing not only that Caucus resists a 2-man government to this country but also that it resists even Cabinet control of this country. 
The messages go around and they seem to come back here shortly afterwards in the form of legislation or amendments to legislation. Obviously this has emanated from Caucus. I hope that while honourable senators opposite sit here and are prepared to have a socialisation program of bureaucratic control put before them, in Caucus they will exercise the rights of the people whom they represent. 
-Of course  Senator Devitt  would know all about it. He comes from a farming community in Tasmania. He knows exactly what goes on. I say that honourable senators on the back benches of the Labor Party sincerely want to represent the people of their States in this chamber. I refer particularly to Queensland. The Seas and Submerged Lands Bill passed through this chamber yesterday. There are 10 honourable senators here from Queensland. Six of us resisted the proposed takeover of the Great Barrier Reef by the Federal Government. Four honourable senators on the other side wriggled in their seats knowing full well what the people of Queensland believe in relation to whether Sydney or Melbourne should control the Barrier Reef. Of course the people of Queensland who love their Barrier Reef and who know it should be the ones who control it. 
-Senator McAuliffe can talk about drilling for oil. I ask him to prove that any of the leases which were granted will endanger the Reef. He should go into the facts. He should read the report of the royal commission. Then he would know. But this centralist Government down here has no knowledge whatsoever of Queensland. It wants to dictate what we in Queensland should do. I support the motion. 
-Does the Minister for Repatriation recall his answer to a question asked by me on 28 August in which he said that both he and the Minister for Defence would resist any proposal to amalgamate the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Security? In view of continuing rumours in Returned Services League circles, will the Minister inform the Senate whether there has been any change in the position since August? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that there is a world shortage of wheat which is likely to continue for the next 3 years? Is it also a fact that the much publicised wheat agreement with China covers only the next 3 years? Have the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Overseas Trade given consideration to securing from China a concrete agreement for the sale of wheat beyond the 3-year term as a condition of supplying China during the period of world shortage? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister agree that the serious situation which occurred in the Middle East recently and the uncertain truce which has existed since then increase the risk of a wider confrontation? Would he also agree that there is a danger of the present conflict in Vietnam spreading to other areas in South East Asia? With the threat of cutting off vital supplies held by fuel producing countries over consuming countries adding to world tensions, does the Minister agree that the Government's official policy as outlined by the Minister for Defence that there is no threat to this country for 15 years is now much out of date? Will the Minister ask the Government to reconsider its decision to run down our defence forces? 
The Australian Country Party will support this Bill and the amendment which has been suggested by the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  The former Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  has explained the position to the Senate. I think that in the past the old system has worked. I refer to the system whereby we had one resident judge and several supporting judges from time to time. However, there is no doubt that the workload increases and probably there is justification for 2 judges at the moment and a third later on. There is one thing I would like to mention however. When dealing with remote areas such as the Northern Territory, we must ensure that in all cases there is no hold up of this work. If it means that another judge has to be appointed so that there are no delays in justice being dispensed, as against having only one judge and justice being held up, then I certainly come down in favour of appointing extra judges. People often have to travel long distances to attend the courts. I hope that when this BDI comes into operation the Attorney-General will consider moving the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory around that big area because it is often easier to move the court than to have people travelling long distances to appear before it. The Australian Country Party supports this Bill. 
asked trie Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did  Mr Tom  Burns, an Australian Labor Party member ofthe Queensland Parliament, travel with the Prime Minister's party to mainland China. 
If so, in what capacity was he included in the party and who paid his expenses. 
The Australian Country Party will support, the Bill and the suggested amendments. We realise that it is necessary from time to time to reform our laws and to update them in accordance with modern concepts. I emphasise that it is necessary at all times that any reform undertaken be carried out in accordance with the paramount interests of the people. The law should not be made the preserve of the legal fraternity. 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a statement by the  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange that the confidence of industry has been destroyed by this Government? As an increasing demand for goods must be matched by an increase in production, does the Minister agree that the present shortages of goods in many fields are the direct result of this lack of confidence in industry and the consequent reluctance to expand production? 
I want to state the position of the Australian Country Party in the debate on these 2 taxation Bills.  Senator Guilfoyle  has traversed the main areas concerned with taxation generally. There is no doubt that if we were really to take apart the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 5) 1973 we would be involved in the task here for hours. But I do not propose to take up a great deal of the time of the Senate. However, I do not think that I or my Party should allow this Bill to pass through the Senate without comment on what we believe has been an attack on primary industry in this country. The withdrawal of the special taxation concessions has come about under the pretext of an attack on Pitt Street farmers. Of course, everyone engaged in primary industry has had to suffer as a result. It is inconceivable to me that at this time these concessions should be withdrawn. We all know that, for some years now, the primary industries of this country, particularly those in the arid areas, have suffered from severe drought, and depressed prices during the rural recession. In these years, they have not been able to avail themselves of taxation concessions. Now, because of good seasons and higher world prices, having become taxpayers again these primary producers have the opportunity to take advantage of taxation concessions but, because of this legislation, that opportunity will be denied them and they will be unable to make much needed improvements and to increase production in the grazing and agricultural sectors. 
It is interesting to note that the rural debt, which is over $2,000m, has to be paid. This is one of the main reasons why primary producers have been unable to make improvements necessary to increase production. They have not had the income or the funds and, in many cases, they have not been able to obtain money from banks, agents or other sources from which they obtain loan funds. Of course, a great many anomalies arise in the present situation. The richer farmers and graziers in the community who have had access to funds have been able to maintain the standard of their machinery, equipment, fencing and so forth, but the poorer members of the farming community, through lack of access to funds, have not been able to do so. Now that they have the opportunity to look after their equipment and property they are being denied the taxation concessions that have applied for so many years. Therefore, these measures disadvantage the poorer farmers and graziers in the community. 
In addition, we saw develop the unfortunate situation in which, because of the rural depression, many of our machinery manufacturing firms had to shut down or reduce production because of lack of sales. Farmers could not afford to buy equipment, such as headers, tractors, and so forth. It will take time to build up this business again. The position is that farmers and graziers want to buy equipment but it is not available. I know that there is a waiting list of about 3 years for certain headers, tractors and other farm machinery. Some primary producers are in an unfortunate position because, although they may have been able to afford to buy this equipment before the Budget was introduced, because of the waiting list they were unable to do so, and they are now being deprived of the taxation concession that has been obtained by their more fortunate fellows. Of course, I find it inconceivable that any government should introduce measures that will restrict production at a time when overseas prices are booming and there is a demand for agricultural products. The world is crying out for more wheat and sugar. Wool is at a premium, and we all know that we cannot supply the demand of the beef markets. 
Surely this is a time when any responsible government would want primary industries to increase production, take advantage of the world situation and bring more export income into the country. Such a government would say to producers: 'Go ahead, we will give you the opportunity to develop your properties and increase production. ' However, instead of saying that, the Government has tried to restrict these producers. Let us face it: We cannot produce more land and there is no more land to use. We must try to increase the productivity of land already developed. In this respect, primary industry is different from factories and industrial concerns. A factory can be enlarged and its output increased 10 or 12 times without much additional area being required. From a national point of view surely this is the time when we should be encouraging the production of primary industries. The Government's action in relation to some of these taxation deductions is completely wrong. 
Let us consider the case of the arid areas. Although this is the driest continent in the world, much of our export income derives from the production of properties in arid areas. In such areas are to be found a large proportion of our sheep flocks and beef cattle herds. As this country has little natural water available, there is a necessity to provide water so that the land will produce. At considerable expense, earth tanks and earth dams are constructed so that water can be conserved. Many of these tanks and dams do not last 10 years; in some areas they may last only 2 or 3 years before they must be renewed or cleaned out. Therefore, under the Government's proposals, the owners of properties where these tanks and dams are used are at an immediate disadvantage. In the more productive farming areas where irrigation schemes are available farmers can buy water from such schemes and claim the cost in full as a taxation deduction. Moreover, the cost of that water is considerably less than what graziers in remote areas must pay to ensure a water supply for their properties. 
Under the taxation schedules as they applied previously a farmer who built water storages could claim a full deduction in the first year, but if he sold his property the value of that storage improvement was included in his income. How it would assist Pitt Street farmers to provide water storages in some of these arid areas, I do not know. I can understand that anyone who pulls out scrub, developing scrub lands into rich agricultural lands, gains a taxation advantage, but I cannot see the advantages to be gained from making water storage improvements in arid areas. 
I now turn to the changes made in the schedules relating to depreciation allowances. With regard to internal subdivisional fences, previously one could claim as a depreciation allowance 100 per cent of the cost. Now, that allowance has been reduced to 3 per cent a year of the total cost. There may be some areas in which fences last for 33 years, but in many other areas, because of the type of soil and other conditions that apply, they do not last 10 years. I believe primary producers should have an opportunity to select one of a variety of applications for depreciation to suit particular areas and conditions. They should not be in the unfortunate position that applies now in which the depreciation allowance is only 3 per cent per annum. As I have said already, primary industries have a debt of over $2,000m. Primary producers are struggling to get back on their feet; they are trying to produce more to enhance their financial liquidity. In the process, in many years they operate in adverse conditions. The main point involved is the export income earned as a result of the sale of primary products overseas. Not only in these measures but in many other areas of 
Government budgeting- particularly since December 2, while this Government has been in office- primary industry has been singled out for attack. Country people have had their postal charges increased. The subsidies which were given to airlines to permit them to operate in country areas have been taken away. The Government has also increased telephone charges. These are very costly items for people in remote areas. When those people have to conduct business in the capital cities they either have to use the telephone or fly there to conduct the business personally. But the Government has now increased the primary producers costs in this regard. If the Government continues this sort of attack on country people not many people will want to live in the remote areas of Australia. 
The cost of living in remote areas is high because of transport costs. These costs rise in proportion to the rate of inflation. People in the wool industry, 95 per cent of whose produce is sold overseas, will be particularly affected by the increased transport costs and they will be put in a position where they cannot pass on their increased costs. I believe that this Government should reconsider the clauses in this Bill that concern taxation deductions for primary producers. 
Before I sit down I would like to say that the Australian Country Party will support the Taxation Bill (No. 4) 1973. In fact, this legislation was considered by the previous Government. We realise that the law as it stands allows certain people to take advantage of tax havens. We agree that this practice should be stopped. 
The Australian Country Party will support the Airlines Agreements Bill 1973 and the Air Navigation (Charges) Bill 1973 and the amendment to the second Bill which will be moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers).  We are very pleased to see from these Bills that the Government will continue the 2 airlines policy. There is no doubt that this policy has served Australia well. We have had healthy competition between the 2 airlines," and of course our air safety record is extremely high. However, I would appreciate the maintenance of a policy to provide adequate services to the remote areas of this country. In the past it has been obligatory on the airlines, even if they "ran at a loss, to provide a service to many of these far flung areas and to make up the loss by the profitability of the" more lucrative routes. I sincerely hope' that this Government will continue, if. not extend, that policy. We must ensure that the people in remote areas are given adequate communications. Most of them have to travel long distances to conduct their business affairs and on occasions this can be very costly. The amenities in many of these places are not so great. Surely we can assist them, particularly families going on holidays, so that they will receive the service at a reasonable charge. 
I would also  appreciate the Government's doing something about the schedules of the 2 airlines; This concerns the are old problem of aircraft of the 2 airlines taking off together, after which hours may elapse before the next flights are due. I know that northern Queenslanders have a problem with afternoon flights from Canberra. We have to catch an early flight to Sydney and then wait for 2 or 3 hours before we can catch, the north-bound flight. Two aircraft leave Canberra at about the same time. Irrespective of which aircraft one takes one is in the position of having to sit in Sydney for a couple of hours waiting for the northern flight. Surely a. system can be . worked out whereby the. departure times of aircraft are staggered. I believe! it is something which should be encouraged. 
Once again I am a little disturbed at the increases in taxes and charges which are made under the Air Navigation (Charges) Bil). We could reach the situation of pricing air travel out of existence, except for the few. who could afford it. As was mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate the tourist industry is very important to this country and airline operations are very important to the industry. If we are to attract overseas tourists and if we are to gain the money which they bring with them we must increase the tourist traffic within Australia by providing facilities which will encourage overseas people to come here. Unless we have the facilities people will not come. I think that the first thing that we have to do is to encourage Australians to travel to see other parts of this great country of ours. They will be prepared to do that if the charges are sufficiently low. They like the aircraft because of limited travelling time. It means that they can go to these places quickly and have the maximum time there. The Australian Country Party supports the amendment to be moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
-Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs attempted to confirm whether the Minister for Overseas Trade,  Dr J.  F. Cairns, said in Hanoi- I quote from a Press report- that in the past Australians were involved in making war upon your country and your people5? Has he also checked whether  Dr Cairns  expressed regret -again I quote- 'at the Australian association with the United States war of destruction upon your country'? If these statements were made, is this another occasion on which  Dr J.  F. Cairns has taken over the foreign policy of the Government and what does the Minister propose to do about it? 
The Australian Country Party also will support this Bill if it can obtain assurances from the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  who represents the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the Senate, that the $Sm will be spent. The situation is that the $5m is aimed at providing currency revaluation compensation. Of course, this applies only to export fruit. It does not apply, as the name of the Bill suggests, to the withdrawal of sales tax on fruit juices sold within Australia. If any funds are left from this $5m after the payment of revaluation compensations to the fruit growers, we would hope that they would be spent on promotion, research or in some other way to assist the fruit juice industry in Australia. Of course, the allocation of this $5m to provide assistance was to offset the removal of the exemption foreshadowed in the Budget. It is not really something new. While we may agree with the arguments advanced by the Minister in regard to revaluation of the Australian dollar, the fact that the United States dollar has recovered to a certain extent has meant that in Great Britain, which is the main market for this industry, there has been a currency revaluation of about 3 to 4 per cent, so there is justification for money to be spent on currency revaluation compensation. 
While we are still not completely satisfied with the assistance that has been given to the apple industry in particular, like the members of the Liberal Party we will approve of the Bill provided that the Government can give us assurances. The industry would like to know, as we would, what its future will be, particularly with regard to reconstruction. If the funds available in this measure are inadequate for the compensation, reconstruction could take over. Every industry wants to know whether it can continue as a viable industry or whether it has to go to the wall and be reconstructed. Can the growers have an assurance that they will be able to enter some other form of production? We would like these assurances from the Minister before we really commit ourselves to supporting this Bill. 
The Australian Country Party appreciates the continuation of this legislation regarding rural reconstruction. We note that up to the present time about $ 137m has been released, 75 per cent of which has been loan money and 25 per cent of which has been grants. Many people say, Why should this sort of money be given to the rural industries when it is not available to other industries?' The fact of the matter is that in the rural industries a person cannot shut down the operation even if he is running at a loss. He cannot put sheep or cattle in mothballs, and grass still grows on his property whether it is running profitably or not. The point is that in most cases the rural industries have had to continue production at a time when they have been running at a loss, and of course the nation has gained because of the export income earned by people in the wool and meat industries in particular who have been running at a loss. I believe that because of this situation we have to assist them through rural reconstruction or in other ways so that they can continue production in bad times. 
In bad seasons in particular producers- in the animal industries anyway- have to make a decision either to get rid of their stock and to sell them for slaughter or to maintain them, mainly at a loss. Of course, mostly they decide that they will endeavour to maintain them, because, after all, stock cannot just be brought back into production straight away. If breeding herds are lost it takes many years to breed up the numbers and consequently most people make a decision to maintain their flocks if possible, even at a loss. This is why we need this rural reconstruction money. 
We had hoped that more money would be available, particularly at this stage for farm build up. We had a situation in the rural recession in the drought period where we had a number of people who would have liked to be able to build up their properties but could not manage the finance to do so, Others, of course, were in a pretty serious financial position and, if they had sold at that stage, they would have walked off their properties with nothing. With the improved seasonal conditions and improved prices for most of our primary products some people are now prepared to increase the size of their properties whereas others wish for one reason or another to get out, and to be in a position to get out with some sort of dignity and some financial resource behind them. 
The same thing applies to reconstruction, because under reconstruction as we had it over the last couple of years there were many people, particularly in the arid areas in the pastoral industry, whose financial position was such that banking institutions and rural reconstruction boards did not consider them a viable operation, and consequently they were denied assistance. Many of these people have continued to operate on the smell of an oily rag, so to speak, and have been able to maintain their properties. They or their wives have gone out to work, and they have maintained their stocks and their properties. Under today's seasonal conditions and improved prices they have now come into the area of eligibility for rural reconstruction. In Queensland- I do not know whether this applies in other States- there are many people who have had rural reconstruction money and the Board has asked that they repay the money as fast as they can so that it can then turn around and lend to other people. I think an opportunity should now be taken to set up the rural industries, particularly in the arid areas, while the seasonal conditions are satisfactory and the prices obtained are reasonably good because, after all, all that the Government is going to do is lend these people money. It is only a matter of a few years and they will get themselves back on top. 
This applies particularly to re-stocking. There are still many people in the western areas of Queensland who have grass and everything and the season has been right, but they have not the funds to re-stock. This is a national disaster, as far as I am concerned, because, when it is considered that 95 per cent of the wool is sold overseas at fairly high prices at the moment, it can be seen that this is all export income we are losing because we are not allowing these people to get back on their feet. As I see it, this is the time when money should be expended for rural reconstruction, when seasonal conditions and economic conditions are good rather than waiting until those times when people cannot very well use it. We support the continuation of this measure, and I suggest to the Minister that he look into the possibility of really getting these rural industries, particularly in the arid areas, back on their feet and in business, and working in the interests of this nation. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in yesterday 's Melbourne ' Herald ' written by the renowned Asian affairs journalist and author, Denis Warner? Did the Minister note that  Mr Warner,  on a recent tour of South East Asia, found widespread belief that Australia had adopted a double standard that turns a blind eye to communist contempt for human rights coupled with a highly critical attitude to its former friends? Is the Minister concerned that  Mr Warner  found 'even a fear that Australia has changed sides'? Is there justification for those fears, in view of the apology given in Hanoi by Australia's Minister for Overseas Trade about Australia 's involvement in the Vietnam war? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Minister has been asked by Cabinet to inquire into, and report upon, the proposed tourist complex of a Japanese businessman,  Mr Iwasaki;  if so, when is a report expected to be placed before Cabinet. 
Will the Minister ensure that the decision of the Cabinet is released to Parliament as early as possible. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Is it a fact that the Government has adopted more than half the recommendations on primary industry of the Coombs task force? Have these decisions resulted in the removal of concessions and assistance granted by the previous Government? Can the Minister say how many more of the recommendations in relation to rural matters made by the Coombs task force remain to be considered, and when they are likely to be implemented? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. How many people from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs were present at the demonstration outside Parliament House? Did they apply for leave? Who granted them leave? Were they paid during the time that they were at the demonstration? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Primary Industry. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government intends to allocate special funds for restocking purposes for those who suffered losses during the recent disastrous floods? If no special funds are to be allocated, will the Minister give consideration to the special needs of those landholders, particularly in the Gulf country of Queensland, who lost all their cattle and are unable to obtain finance through normal channels? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Primary Industry. In view of the Minister's reply to my question last Thursday concerning re-stocking arrangements arising from losses due to flood, will he ascertain whether in fact grants for the replacement of stock losses are provided for in the agreement between the States and the Commonwealth in regard to disasters, or is this something new which the Government intends to institute? 
I wish to convey my loyalty to  Her  Majesty the Queen and our appreciation of the fact that she was able to open this session of Parliament.  Her  Majesty's Speech was in fact a program of the present Government's intentions for this session of Parliament. So far as I am concerned there are no surprises in it. This applies particularly to those of us who have become used to the socialistic program that this Government has embarked upon. I support the amendment which has been moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Withers). Senator Carrick  made what I thought were a few very pertinent points. We have heard members of this Government saying from time to time that they have a mandate for practically everything that they bring into this Senate and for everything they do. But it is interesting to note that the main election promises and the ones which the public took notice of are the very ones that honourable senators opposite have not implemented. For a start, they promised to reduce inflation, but what has happened since this Government has been in office? We have had the greatest inflation rate of all time. 
-We have had the greatest inflation rate in a period of 15 months. The Government which you support has been in office for 15 months. Can you mention any 15-month period in which there has been a greater rate of inflation? 
Well, you can explain later. You know exactly what you mean. 
There was one little period when we had a high inflation rate but I ask the honourable senator to compare the situation with what has gone on in the rest of the world. Certain things happened in that short period. Wool prices went mad. At that time wool represented something like 50 per cent of our export earnings. The honourable senator through his interjections has helped me to develop a point that I had proposed to mention later on in my speech. As I said, at that time wool represented something like 50 per cent of the export income of this nation and because so much money came into the country the whole economy was buoyant. That is why there was high inflation then. But at that time inflation did not have the effect that it is having at the present time because there is nothing coming into the country now which has the same effect as the wool income had on that earlier occasion. Inflation today is really hurting everybody although it did not hurt everybody during that earlier period of time. We have heard that one of the election promises was to reduce interest rates. No-one can tell me that interest rates have been higher in any other period of our history than they are today. They have never been so high. 
-That is right. I tell  Senator McAuliffe,  who is interjecting, that in the old days the usurers would not have attempted to inflict such interest rates. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriott)-  Order! This across-the-chamber skirmishing must stop. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY  PRESIDENTOrder, senator. I do not want any back chat from you. 
The Government was going to reduce taxation. I have heard that in the next Budget something may be done. Something must be done in the light of the rate of inflation in this country today because by the time the next Budget is brought down the Government will be receiving something like double the previous rate of revenue into the Treasury. The Government is bringing all sorts of people into a taxation rate which will mean that most people will be providing a considerable amount of their incomes for taxation. Another thing which the Government was going to do was make land available for people who wanted to provide homes and make homes cheaper to build. What has happened in that direction? These are only 4 points that  Senator Carrick  brought up but they are very important. When we went to the people in 1972 the Labor Party said: 'This is what we will do '. It did not say that it would nationalise industry, that it would go through the back door to bring in a Bill to expand the Australian Industry Development 
Corporation and a few other things. It did not say that in those days, but of course the moment the Government brings in these Bills and we reject them, it says: 'We have a mandate for that.' It does not have a mandate. Let the Government do something about inflation, about building costs for home owners and interest rates and then we might believe that it has a mandate. I am sure that when the Senate election takes place- in May, we hope; we do not know when it will be held; some of us will be told at some time- we will know then who has the mandate, whether the Government has a mandate to continue or whether the Senate has a mandate to throw it out. 
I go now to the constant attack which this Government has made on federalism in this country. There was no mention of that in the preelection policy speech. We have had an almost constant attack on the States and on the whole federal system. What this Government cannot do through administrative action or through this Parliament it is trying to do through alterations to the Constitution. I hope that the people of this country will consider these proposed constitutional alterations, which we understand will be presented at the next Senate election, and give them the same kind of treatment as was meted out to the prices and incomes referenda last December. There is no doubt that the Government, through its actions and statements, is determined to destroy this House and the effectiveness of this House. We read from time to time- almost constantly, in fact- in the Press that this House is frustrating the Government almost daily in the operations of its administration. Yet almost in the same breath the Government says that never since Federation has this Parliament put through more legislation. If this Parliament has put through more legislation than any Parliament in history, that legislation must have gone through this place and therefore we must be responsible for more legislation than any Parliament in the history of this country. The Government cannot have it both ways. It cannot say, on the one hand 'We have put through more legislation than any Parliament in the history of this country' and on the other hand, say that the Senate has been doing nothing but frustrate the Government in its administration of this country. 
I go next to a few items which I believe are vital, particularly to the people that I represent, and to the nation as a whole. One, in particular, is the treatment that has been meted out to the primary industries of this country. There is no doubt that they have received a real slap in the face at a time when primary industries- I include the mining industry, for it, too, is a primary industryhave been recovering from years of depressed prices overseas and years of adverse seasonal conditions. Today seasonal conditions have improved and primary industries are receiving adequate prices for their products. This is the time when those industries should be encouraged because during years of droughts and depressed prices the primary industries of this country were unable even to maintain their buildings and the production of their particular units. Today there is a world wide shortage of primary products. This is when we should be encouraging the primary industries of this country not only to rehabilitate themselves from the depressed periods that they have been through but to increase production as rapidly as possible not only to take advantage of world prices that obtain today but to take advantage of the shortages that will occur in the future. 
What does this Government do? The first thing it does is take away taxation concessions. Taxation concessions are vital to increased production by primary industries. During depressed times they were not able to take advantage of taxation concessions. Now, when they are in a position to take advantage of them and to do something about increasing productivity, what does this Government do? It takes that advantage away from them. Of course, one only has to breathe a word about the superphosphate bounty to make people in rural areas all over Australia irate. Further, the Australian dollar has been revalued on a couple of occasions. Primary industries, particularly certain sections of them, are so dependent on export income that revaluations can have a very important effect on the profit that they receive. But this Government just says: 'We will revalue because we think we will be able to get goods from overseas cheaper.' Maybe it will. I have not yet seen any cheaper goods in this country but I have seen a great deal of damage done to our export industries and to the prices that they should have received for their products compared with what they are receiving today. 
Another great election promise was that Labor would do something abour rural industries and make sure that it looked after the labour force in rural areas. One can go through the rural areas today and not find anyone available to work in the primary industries. If one has a job available, one cannot find anyone to fill it. Why is this? It is the result of the actions of this Government. It has done nothing to help rural people. It has damaged the transport system by increasing the price of petrol. What has it done about telephone services? It has neglected the people in rural areas and encouraged them to go to the cities where it is spending money like a man with no arms. That is exactly what is happening, and this is unfortunate. It is almost impossible to get rural labour. Yet this Government in one great promise to the rural industries said it would not only look after them but would give them long term, low interest loans and maintain the viability of the rural labour force. What it has done is exactly the opposite. Do not tell me that the Government had a mandate to do that. 
I want to get back to the question that  Senator McAuliffe  raised concerning the inflation rate. He said that it was 22 per cent in 195 1. That was in the wool boom. The United States decided, because of the Korean war, that it would buy up the whole of the Australian wool clip. Wool prices went mad and money came into this country. Overnight this country and the people in it became affluent. This explains what I was saying before, that unless the Government looks after our export industries we will be in trouble. The whole standard of living in this nation is dependent to a large degree on the export income brought into it. A nation is little different from a home or family unit. The standard of living of a family unit is dependent on the income that the breadwinner brings into the home, not on what else he does, whether he grows a few vegetables out the back, does his own plumbing or builds his own furniture. The breadwinner gets the experts, those who are efficient in those fields, to do those things. The breadwinner goes out and brings in the money and a nation does exactly the same. I cannot understand for the life of me why this Government has done everything possible to frustrate the export industries of this country and to stop them from earning export income at a time when we really need it and when there is so much available from overseas. I leave that point by saying that so far as our rural industries are concerned they have nothing for which to thank this Government. 

 Senator Sim mentioned another very important matter about which our attack on the Government is justified. I refer to defence and foreign affairs. The 2 subjects are linked. I know that  Senator Cavanagh,  the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, said that the Government's policy for Aborigines was disastrous. I say that the defence policy of this Government has been nothing short of disastrous. This Government since coming to office has not only reduced the capability of our armed forces; it has also thrown into confusion those who choose the armed forces as a career. It has done this to such an extent that we are losing some of our best and most efficient officers and non-commissioned officers. At all times there is a draining off in a peacetime force. Mostly it is draining off people who are not satisfied with Army life and choose to get out. There are others who look at the situation and say: 'I am not quite as competent as the rest and there is not a great deal of future for me so I may as well get out'. That is not the situation today. People with a great future in the armed forces are so frustrated and the future is so obscure to them that they are getting out now. It galls me to see some of the fine officers and noncommissioned officers leaving our Services and going into private industry. As  Senator Sim  said, we know that the Government is working on the basis that there will be no possible attack on this country for 15 years. We know what has happened throughout history. No one in this chamber could guarantee immunity from attack for a period of more than 3 years. Anyone who says otherwise would be guessing. We could go through all our experts in the armed Services or anywhere else and pin them down but not one of them would say that he could guarantee immunity from attack or involvement in a world war for more then 3 years. Yes, we may be all right for 3 years but there only has to be another brush up in the fuel crisis and a few other Middle East episodes with the United States and we could be involved. 
That is the maximum that we could suggest but your Government is working on a policy that we will be right for 15 years. It takes 10 years to train an army, air force or navy properly. They cannot be trained overnight. We must keep that nucleus of commissioned officers and non-commissioned officers. We cannot just say that we will be right for 1 5 years, get rid of our armed Services tomorrow and then start them up again just before we think things might happen. This is what the Government is doing. It cannot guarantee for more than 3 years that we will not be involved in conflict, and it takes 10 years to train an armed Service. This automatically means that we must keep our armed Services going all the time. 
-That is what you think. 
That is what you think. I want to get back to our foreign policy. 
Yes, and what about the boys who flew the Wirraways against the Zeros? I hope the honourable senator is not going to talk about the Brisbane line again. Foreign policy obviously is wrapped up with defence. Our foreign policy has turned from our traditional allies. The Government is looking for new friends. What is happening is that we are losing our friends. We only have acquaintances. If the Government insults friendly countries and runs around with somebody else we cannot expect those countries to stay friends, particularly if they become suspicious of our actions. There is no doubt that our former friends have become suspicious of Australia's actions in recent times. We cannot expect them to remain friends when we are grovelling and pleading on our bended knees to other people. How can our former friends remain friendly when these other people have a different way of life, a different type of government and a completely different outlook? How can we expect these other people to be friends in the long term? In fact all we can expect from them is contempt. Whilst it is the role of any government to endeavour to have peaceful relations with every nation in the world, we have a responsibility to see that people who have the same outlook in life and the same approach to peace as we have remain as friends. We have to show them that we respect them. 
The other matter I want to refer to might interest my Queensland friend on the Government side. I refer to the attack made last Wednesday on the Premier of Queensland by  Senator Milliner,  not that the Queensland Premier would worry too much about it.  Senator Keeffe  had another go today. All that the 2 honourable senators could do was to denigrate the Premier of Queensland. In no way will they assist him to do his job when there is a disaster in that State.  Senator Milliner  said the other day that  Mr Bjelke-Peterson  had never acknowledged the role of the Federal Government at any stage and that he was making political capital out of the disaster. What the honourable senator did not know was that the Premier of Queensland the previous day had initiated a debate in the Queensland Parliament in which he stated how much he thanked the Federal Government. I would like to put on record what he was reported as having said by Queensland Hansard on Tuesday of last week. The Queensland Premier said: 
I wish to express, on behalf of Queenslanders, our gratitude to the people and governments in Australia and overseas who gave money and material to Queenslanders in need after the flood. 
I have criticised the Federal Government in the past when I have believed it was warranted- I undoubtedly will do so in the future. However, I also believe in giving thanks where thanks are due. I have done so to date and will re-state it in this House to go on the record: The Acting Prime Minister,  Mr Barnard,  the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  other Commonwealth Ministers and their departments have not hesitated and their help has been generous. I saw a remark the other day that the Federal Government was only doing what other Federal governments have done in the past. I think that is a grudging attitude and again express thanks on behalf of the Queensland people and Government for both the financial assistance and for the spirit of co-operation displayed by all levels of government involved. 
In this spirit the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council are agreed that people, not politics, are the paramount concern. 
I pay tribute to the magnificient work of the armed Services and particularly to the Air Force pilots who flew in the worst possible weather and saved so many people from certain death. 
I have not heard too many compliments from Queensland members of the Australian Labor Party, either Federal or State. 
-The honourable senator should read  Senator Milliner's  speech. He said that the Queensland Premier did not give the Federal Government any credit whatever. 
If the honourable senator read  Senator Milliner's  speech he would find out. He cannot talk his way out of it now. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Marriot)-  Order!  Senator Maunsell,  if you address your remarks to the Chair you will not provoke so many arguments. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Deputy President.  1 conclude by saying that on 1 1 May or 18 May we in Queensland will have the answer as to whether  Mr BjelkePetersen  has done his job and whether the policies of the Labor Party and this Government in office in Canberra are acceptable to the Queensland people. I am quite sure now what the answer will be. 
I have great pleasure in supporting the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
-As the Minister for Customs and Excise has repeatedly criticised the control and conservation methods of the Queensland Government in respect of kangaroos, will he inform the Senate whether there has been correspondence between himself and the Queensland Minister for Primary Industries? Has he indicated clearly to the Queensland Minister the Commonwealth 's requirements? 
When this Bill came before the Senate last December the Opposition insisted upon an amendment to the long title so that it would be clear that the major intention was to allow electors in the mainland Territories to vote at a referendum. The Government subsequently disallowed the amendment in the House of Representatives and by so doing telegraphed to the Australian people that a vote to the Territories was merely chocolate coating on a bitter pill. Labor's hope is that if the people like the chocolate they might swallow the pill. We have been asked to approve a series of constitutional alteration Bills which have been shown in debate to be unacceptable in that broadly they represent a plunder of State rights and an attempt to centralise power in Canberra. The Government knew that the proposals would encounter strong opposition. So, in an attempt to overcome what it fears will be a no vote by the people, it seeks to change the longstanding method by which alterations to the Constitution can be effected. An attempt to fiddle with the method is no less objectionable than other proposed alterations. 
It is not difficult to understand why the Government wants to be able to change the Constitution if only three of the States instead of four give their approval. One reason is that three of the 6 States currently have Labor Government, and voters in those States might reasonably be expected to support Federal Labor proposals. If this is the Government's thinking, I believe it has lost touch with reality. There is another significant reason, and as a Queenslander I cannot over-emphasise it. The 2 highly populated States, New South Wales and Victoria, naturally have a tremendous influence on overall voting under this new proposal. If only one of the smaller or less populated States supported the big States' view a referendum would be carried. This would make lobbying of small States by the large States a much easier exercise because only one of the 4 small States instead of two would need to approve of the change. 
The reaction of the majority of Australian voters when they vote at the referendum is very likely to be one of annoyance at a government which has virtually prevented them approving referenda voting by electors in the Territories. They will be sorry to bring about the defeat of that proposition. But they will do so nevertheless, unless the Government is prepared to accept the amendment which  Senator Withers,  as Leader of the Opposition, proposes to move at the Committee stage. I indicate that the Australian Country Party will support the Opposition's amendment at the Committee stage. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the disastrous floods in Queensland destroyed many hundreds of miles of fencing and other structural improvements on rural properties? Is the Minister also aware that the provisions of sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which would have enabled the cost of the replacement of these improvements to be a full deduction from income in one year, were withdrawn in the last Budget? In view of the heavy cost involved and the fact that these rural producers are not entitled to social service payments and disaster fund handouts, will the Minister ask the Treasurer to consider restoring these provisions temporarily in order to cover these people? 
My question is directed to the Minister assisting the Minister for Defence. Is there any substance in a report emanating from northern Queensland that an Australian naval patrol vessel has been cruising around islands off the coast of New Guinea with a doctor on board and that Indonesian citizens are involved? 
-Has the Minister for Primary Industry obtained information in respect of the assistance to be given to primary producers in Queensland who lost stock and improvements during the floods in that State? 
In view of his reply to my question yesterday in respect of assistance to primary producers who suffered losses in the Queensland floods I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: As the assistance is in the form of low interest loans and not grants as the Minister stated previously, will he now ask the Treasurer to restore the provisions of sections 75 and 76 of the Income Tax Act which applied before the last Budget for rebuilding and structural improvement loans? As the maximum loan of $40,000 is insufficient for some owners who have stock losses alone running into hundreds of thousands of dollars, will the Minister give consideration to extending this limit in special circumstances? 
I am one of those who believe that a very strong defence force is vital to an island continent like Australia that is far removed from most of the major powers and certainly from the sources of vital supplies and assistance that we need in times of conflict. It has always been interesting to note the policy of the Australian Labor Party, when in Opposition, every time we endeavoured to build up our defence forces or every time we sent troops overseas to assist friends against imperialistic advances, particularly by the communist countries. Members of the Opposition attacked us. They have always had a policy of isolation and lack of defence for this country. Of course, they believe that, if we run down our defence forces and portray a peaceful attitude to the world, no one will attack us and that we will always be safe. They believe that we could have a completely neutralist sort of policy towards our friends and foes alike. Of course, this policy, which I have always believed to be a dangerous policy, completely ignores 2 important facts. One is that the island continent of Australia is an outpost which would be very important in any world wide conflict. We separate two major oceans. In considering the possible operations of nuclear submarines in a world conflict obviously Australia could be a very important outpost for any combatant. The second important factor is our enormous resources which are badly needed, certainly in times of conflict between nations. There is no doubt that the resources of this country, particularly in the fields of mining and minerals, would attract the attention of a combatant nation. 
At least it can be said that the policy of the Labor Policy in office is consistent with its policy when in Opposition. It is still one of isolation and of running down our defence structure. Undoubtedly the point upon which we differ from Labor's policy is how far a threat to our shores can be foreseen. We have been told that the official attitude of the Government is that there will be no threat to this nation for at least 10 or 15 years. It is interesting to ask military experts: Even in an apparently peaceful situation which it seems may continue for many years, how far ahead can you predict that there will be no threat to this nation?' I have yet to find a military expert who is prepared to predict more than a maximum of 5 years ahead. One can then ask the experts: 'How long does it take to build up the armed Services or defence forces?' They will say: It takes at least 10 years.' It is clear that a threat or lack of a threat cannot properly be predicted for more than 3 years ahead, but it takes 10 years to build up the defence forces. Does it not really come down to the argument that it is essential to have strong defence forces all the time? This particularly applies in respect of senior officers and also the senior non-commissioned officers. It takes years to train these people. In any conflict that may arise it is essential to have trained personnel throughout the armed forces ready to become the leaders of an increased draft in an emergency. 
It is said that there is no threat foreseeable in the next 1 0 to 1 5 years. As  Senator Sim  reminded us, in recent times who predicted that the Middle East conflict would break out again as quickly as it did and that the major powers, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America would nearly come into conflict? We all know what would have happened in that situation. Who could have predicted the energy crisis that is troubling the world today? Once an economic squeeze is applied to a nation military trouble can be expected. I believe that if the energy crisis continues for any length of time and has a great effect on certain nations conflict can be expected in our area. If we are to have trained personnel ready it is essential to maintain at all times a strong defence force. 
The present tragedy is that despite what has been said by Government supporters many of our most capable and experienced officers and non-commissioned officers are getting out of the Services. This is happening despite the fact that when we were in government we initiated inquiries that produced reports containing recommendations to increase the pay of servicemen and to improve the conditions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. Yet this Government takes all the credit because the recommendations were implemented after it came into office. The reports were produced at our instigation. 
-We did not. You know very well what happened on that occasion. Let us face it. Labor's Minister for Defence faced exactly the same problem that certain benefits had to be checked back to ascertain the eventual effect. At present members of the Government are having second thoughts about the cost of improvements to the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Fund. I assume that  Senator Milliner  was referring to that aspect. Another interesting issue in recent times is the request by the Soviet Union for a so-called scientific base in this country. When Labor was in opposition and since it has been in government, the left wing of the Labor Party has opposed most vocally the proposal for the establishment of any foreign bases in this country, particularly for the United States. Today we understand that the request by the Soviet Union for a so-called scientific base in 
Australia has been with the Government for some time. We have not heard any great outbursts from the vocal left wing of the ALP. Its members are saying: 'I suppose that we have to be consistent. If we oppose Omega and other American bases here I suppose we have to be consistent'. 
There is no doubt that somewhere along the line Labor's left wing will be looking for an opportunity to grant the request, possibly using in support the fact that the base is required for socalled scientific purposes. Members of the left wing will use the opportunity to say: 'OK. It is not to be of any military or strategic use and we believe that the Russians should come in here'. Why has not the Government already rejected the proposition out of hand? We will be very interested to hear the answer.  Senator Bishop  said that the Army and the Air Force had played an important role in the recent floods and other disasters in this country. I think we would all agree that they did a terrific job in the cyclone disaster a few years ago in Townsville and in the recent Queensland floods. But is this the role that is earmarked for them in the future? Are they to be nothing more than glorified civil defence forces? It is interesting that this part of their operations has been highlighted, because it seems to me that that is the role selected for our defence forces. 

 Senator Drury said that the only reason we have raised this matter of urgency is to introduce again the old fear bogy. The running down of our defence forces is concerning not only the servicemen who are dissatisfied and who are resigning but also those who are still in the forces. Service morale is very low today because some of our most experienced people are resigning. If in this situation we are to be regarded by the Government as merely raising a fear bogy I just cannot understand what the Government really intends. Of course we are interested in the defence of this country, and the Australian people are interested in the defence of this country, too. That is why they will support us in drawing attention to the running down of our defence forces. 

 Senator Drury said that he regarded that Fill business as a fiasco. I would like to know what the Government thinks of the FI 1 1 today. If the Government thinks that the FI 1 1 is a fiasco, why does it not get rid of the aircraft? The reason why it will not get rid of the aircraft is that it now knows that it is the most advanced and probably the best strike aircraft operating anywhere in the world. It will be interesting to hear the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence tell us whether he thinks that it is the most advanced aircraft in the world. The interesting thing about members of the Labor Party is that when they were in opposition they said that everything we did was completely wrong, but now that they are in government they carry on with the same equipment that we provided. They say: 'It is OK'. It is a different story now. They say in relation to the FI 1 1: 'It was a fiasco when you bought it, but it is a wonderful bit of equipment now that we are in government and we control it '. 
Members of the Labor Party talk about the cost of the FI 1 1 and the fact that it was not on the drawing board when it was ordered. This is the very reason why we entered into the deal- so that we could assist the American defence structure to build an aircraft that was better than anything else available at that time. Of course, we could have sat back and waited until some other nation built an aircraft, or we could have spent millions of dollars in developing an aircraft ourselves. But we have not got the resources to build an aircraft like the FI 1 1. We would have to arrange sales of the aircraft all over the world in order to justify the building of the aircraft; otherwise, the individual cost of each aircraft would make it an impossible venture. So we had to take what I believe was a calculated risk, but it has turned out to be a risk that has certainly given us an advantage because we have a strike aircraft. 
I think that the cost must be worked out on the basis of the value of each individual aircraft to the defence of this nation. The important thing is what each aircraft is worth to Australia in terms of defence capability, not that the aircraft might have been dearer than some other aircraft that we could have bought. That is the test. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Brown)-  Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
I ask the AttorneyGeneral: Did  Senator Gair  discuss with him at any time his intention to resign from the Senate as a result of his appointment as Ambassador designate in Ireland? If so, when did these discussions take place? Did  Senator Gair  inform him on what day he proposed to resign? 

 -Mr President, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. My personal explanation concerns accusations that have been made against me by the Leader of the Government in the Senate and Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy).  The first point I want to bring to the attention of the Senate is that on the night in question, Tuesday night, there were no bar or dining room facilities available in Parliament House. 1 invited, as I often do, people around to my office. Those whom I have invited have included members of the Australian Labor Party. On this occasion I happened to ask  Senator Gair  whether he would like a drink and he accepted. He had not eaten a meal all day and so he had a meal there. Various people came into the room at different times and went out. This is what usually happens. 
-They were not all members of the Country Party at all. It was open to anybody. Whilst this was going on, I left my office with  Senator Gair  when a division was called. I was not hijacking him as Government senators would have us believe. He was free to come and go at any time. It must be the greatest joke of all time to think that anyone could tie down  Senator Gair.  I think that Government senators really underrate him in these circumstances. I was unaware as to whether he had put in a letter of resignation or whether he intended to put one in. The only information I had, which was around the Parliament, was that he was putting one in next day. I object to the fact that  Senator Murphy  did not consult with me as to whether this newspaper article that he referred to was true before he attacked me in the Senate. I think that honourable senators have rights. I have always thought that  Senator Murphy  was one who upheld the rights of honourable senators. I deplore the fact that he did not ask me whether everything was correct before making accusations against me. No doubt, this action is just a smokescreen to cover up the deplorable business that is going on concerning this matter. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the Prime Minister today confirmed that the Government has decided to continue the nitrogenous fertiliser subsidy? If so, will the Minister say why this subsidy has been allowed to survive while the Government has resisted every plea to reverse its decision not to continue the superphosphate bounty? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the Prime Minister's statement' in another place that the  President  of the Senate should have advised the Governor of Queensland that  Senator Gair's  seat had become vacant, what action does he, as Leader of the Government in this place intend to take? 
The defence statement which has been read to us this afternoon is a fair indication of the panic of this Government now that it has come to the realisation that within a few weeks it will have to face the Australian people and account for its activities over the last 14 or 15 months. One of the weakest links in this Government is its defence policy and, in particular, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  Naturally, because of this panic, the Government feels that it has to do some window-dressing to try to persuade the Australian people that belatedly it has decided to do something about defence. I suppose if we read the headlines this morning and if we read the statements which will come from the Minister and the Government in the next few days, on the surface one would assume that the Government intended to do something about the defences of this country. But if we have a close look at the statement before us, at what has been put in train in regard to equipment for our Services over the years and what has been projected for the future it will be obvious, as  Senator Carrick  has said, that this means a downgrading of equipment for our armed Services, not increased expenditure on our defences. 
We know that over the last 15 months the morale of our servicemen has been such that many of our very fine officers have decided to get out. I am certain that after they read this statement a lot more of them will become dissatisfied and will resign from the Services. How the devil are we to have a defence force in this country if our servicemen are completely dissatisfied?  Senator Carrick  mentioned 77 Squadron, that is my old squadron. I was with it for 1 8 months. It is a ridiculous state of affairs when the No. 1 fighter squadron in this country is sitting on its backside not knowing whether in 3 years or 5 years it will get replacement aircraft. Surely during the 15 months this Government has been is office, and in view of the steps which were taken before it came to office, it could have made a decision about aircraft. At least the Government could have kept that squadron going. It could have kept the Airfield Construction Squadron going. The ACS built airfields all over the world, all over South-East Asia and in Australia, at a cost far less than that at which any other organisation has' been able to build them. The ACS has been a very important part of the defence structure of this country. Its members are prepared to go into remote areas where ordinary civilians are not prepared to work. Its members were quite happy to do so because they were proud of their squadron and of the performance of their squadron. 
What is the statement all about? Why all this smoke-screen about our future equipment? We might have this, we might have that. Things are left in abeyance or in limbo. It is what we might expect from this Goverment with its isolationist policies. As I said last week when we were debating defence issues, the Australian Labor Party in government is consistent with the ALP in Opposition. It does not believe in strong defence in this country. It says: 'We will not have any risk for 1 5 years. Why waste money on defence?' Let us face facts. One Minister said that if there were a war it would be over so quickly that we should not worry about it anyway. I agree with those people and the experts- and history, as far as that goes- who say that no one can predict for more than 3 or 5 years whether there will be a risk to this nation. We can go back throughout history to Chamberlain returning from Munich and saying: 'There will be peace in our time'. We know what happened after that. Similar things have happened on plenty of other occasions. 
It does not matter of whose mob he was. No one can predict what might happen. One thing which I do not want to see happen is our Air Force boys fighting Zeros in Wirraways, as they did in the last war. We want to ensure that this sort of thing does not occur again. 
-That is why we got the Fill- to ensure that our boys had equipment at least as good as if not better than those who might be against them.  Senator Carrick  mentioned Cockburn Sound. It is an amazing thing that today members of this Parliament honoured Dame Dorothy Tangney by naming one Federal electorate after her. One only has to read Hansard to discover her very deep interest in Cockburn Sound. I wonder what she must be thinking today, when the development of Cockburn Sound has been put almost into limbo. Whilst I come from the eastern coast, not the western coast, I can understand the problems of Western Australians with the Russian build up in the Indian Ocean because we had a similar problem during the last war when the Japanese were coming down towards the Queensland coast. We were vulnerable on that occasion. Most Queenslanders realise that a lot of areas to our north could be used as stepping off places to invade this country. There is no doubt that the people of Queensland must be completely dissatisfied with the performance of this Government in relation to defence. 
The Government is putting off the day when it will make a decision on exactly what equipment it will have. It has put off a decision on whether the Russians can have a base here. Whether it is a scientific base, or whatever name it might go under, once the equipment and the people are here it does not matter what we call it. It still can be used as a defence base. Perhaps we are waiting for the day when this Government, if it ever gets back, gulls the people of Australia into believing that perhaps we would get better equipment from the Soviet Union than we would get from the United States or some other country. I cannot help but think that feeling may be behind all the procrastination that is going on at the moment. There is no question that the defence policy of this Government has been a disaster. This statement does nothing to encourage anyone in the community to think that the policy will be otherwise. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Has the Government decided on a large scale retraining program, costing many millions of dollars, for employees of industry? If so, does this indicate that the Government agrees with the Minister for Labor and others who predict that unemployment will increase substantially by the end of the year in many industries? 
-I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether it is a fact that meat now can be purchased in most cities of Australia at prices comparable to those of 3 years ago. 
The honourable senator goes to the wrong butcher. If so, does this justify the considered opinion of industry leaders, the Opposition and also the Minister and his Department that there should be no interference by way of price control over meat products? 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture whether it is a fact that the Australian Government is concerned about the heavy buying in recent wool sales by the Australian Wool Corporation? Has the Minister any information which would suggest that the major buyer of Australian wool, Japan, is almost out of raw wool stocks and will be forced to purchase heavily in the spring? If so, would this not indicate a similar situation to the last occasion on which the Wool Corporation bought heavily during a slump and sold at a handsome profit when the demand returned? 
I realise there are only about 10 minutes left for the debate tonight on this very important piece of legislation. However, I think I can spend the next 10 minutes dealing with our friend on the other side,  Senator McLaren,  with particular reference to his comments on the Northern Territory. Labor Party policy on the Northern Territory has always been interesting. The Labor Party has always opposed voting rights for the member of the Northern Territory in the other place. The Labor Party does not believe in statehood for the Northern Territory. It does not believe in States. For purely political reasons the Labor Party is now prepared to give territorial representation because it thinks that it might win another 2 seats. This has a dual purpose, not only of stacking the Senate to get control of it but also to destroy this chamber as a States House. Is the Government prepared to grant statehood to the Northern Territory? Of course it is not. I have never heard the Government at any stage prepared to suggest that the Northern Territory should reach statehood. Just look at what the Government is doing today. The Government is stacking it with bureaucrats for one purpose, that is, to keep it under the centralist control of Canberra. 
Honourable senators opposite certainly have heard it all before. They have heard it in their own Party room before and they have heard it in their own electorates before because that is their policy. This is exactly what the Government is doing. We in the Country Party, the National Party, call it what you like - 
-I will call it what I like. We are prepared to advance the Northern Territory to Statehood but not by stacking it with bureaucrats but by developing its resources, the mining resources and pastoral resources of that great area. We would not populate it with bureaucrats from Canberra who are under the Government's control, which is what the Government is doing. The Government will not allow our mining industries and interests to develop the Northern Territory. It uses all sorts of arguments to make sure that it, as a centralist government in Canberra, will develop the Northern Territory to its own plan. We in the National Party-and I believe I can speak for the Liberal Party and the whole Opposition herebelieve that the Northern Territory has to be developed to the stage of Statehood and that, having been developed to that stage, it should not send just 2 senators down here, but that it should be entitled to 10 senators, as is every other State. 
What a ridiculous situation we have here, with the Labor Party saying: 'OK, as on the previous Bill we want one vote one value' and this sort of thing. It is amazing that the Government should suggest that 2 representatives of the Northern Territory come into this chamber while there is only one representative from the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives. Normally there would be two in the House of Representatives to one in this chamber. 
What is your argument, that you have 2 senators for the Northern Territory with something like 30,000 electors and ten for New South Wales with 2.5 million electors? Where is there one vote one value in that argument? The Government's argument is down the drain. It wants 2 senators from the Northern Territory for one purpose. It wants to satisfy the people of the Northern Territory that they have representation and do not need Statehood. The Northern Territory Legislative Council will not be advanced to Statehood; it will be just a rubber stamp for Canberra control. And that is all the Government is interested in, a rubber stamp for Canberra control. The Government gives the people of the Northern Territory this sop of having 2 senators in this Parliament. 
Mini-senators- I do not know what you would call them. Then tomorrow the Government is to bring in a supplementary Bill which says that these senators cannot have much say in the chamber and that every time the House of Representatives goes out, even if it goes out every 12 months as it can if it wishes, these mini-senators have to go out at the same time. Is the Government really giving the Northern Territory representation in the Parliament of Australia?  Senator McLaren  said they are second-class citizens up there. 
-That is what  Senator McLaren  would give them, second-class citizenship. We will not support something which will break down the States House- and this is a States House. The Government should be prepared to develop the Northern Territory until it achieves Statehood, and then as a State it can have representation in this chamber. Did any of the Government supporters consult the other States to see whether they wanted Northern Territory representation in the States House? Did any of them say to the Premier of Queensland, the Premier of New South Wales or that great Premier from South Australia- what is his name again- 'Is the Northern Territory entitled to it?' 
-I am pleased to note that we have a new Premier there. Did the Government ask those State Premiers that question? Did it go to any of the States and ask: 'Are you prepared to let the Northern Territory into the States House'? 
I am asking whether the Government did. The Government is prepared to have 2 senators from the Northern Territory. Then we come to the Australian Capital Territory. No one here has supported that argument in relation to the Australian Capital Territory because we all realise it is a Government city. I have not heard anyone here suggest that the Australian Capital Territory should become a State and take on the responsibilities of a State. I have heard that there are people in the Australian Capital Territory who are prepared to take on the responsibilities of local government, particularly in those areas of the national capital's administration which are not financed by taxpayers from all over Australia. In other words, they would take over sewerage, water supply and electricity supply and all the other facilities that they pay for. They may even take over the Aboriginal embassy, but that is another question. I have never heard of people from the 
Australian Capital Territory saying: 'I think we should have Statehood here'. But the Government is suggesting that the Australian Capital Territory should have representation in the States House. Surely this is completely opposite to the Government's policy. We all know why the Government wants representation for the Northern Territory. 
Because the Government wants to stack this place so that it can control this chamber and just forget about the States. Representation from the States will even out as it has always done. It has always been fairly close. And the Government might be able to get its 2 senators from the Northern Territory. If it stacks the Territory enough with bureaucrats it will get them, and if it stacks the Australian Capital Territory enough it will get them, and so it will have the balance of power and control in this House. But the amazing thing is that the Government wants to destroy the Senate. The policy of the Labor Party is to destroy the Senate and it has always been its policy. If a committee does not work and if one does not want it to work one stacks it with enough members to make it unworkable and that is the way to defeat it. I can see the day when we will not finish up with just 2 senators from the Australian Capital Territory or 2 from the Northern Territory because there is nothing in this Bill which says that there cannot be thirty from the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory. Then we can give representation to Norfolk Island and Cocos Island. We could have in this Senate 60 senators representing the States and as many from everywhere else, including the islands, and that would be the quickest way to destroy the Senate and its responsibilities. There is no doubt in my mind that this is the purpose of the legislation in respect of which honourable senators opposite say: 'We are going to give representation to the Australian Capital Territory and to the Northern Territory'. Honourable members opposite are not interested - 
-Mr Calder agrees with me. If it was not for our side of politics he would not have a vote in the other House. 

 - Senator Georges has had his right to speak before today but we will not talk about demonstrations now.  Mr Deputy President,  we are getting very close to time when the Senate will adjourn and there is a little bit of noise coming from honourable senators opposite. It is a bit late now for me to get on to the real speech I intended to make. I would suggest that if my friends in the Opposition would like to come back tomorrow- I do not know what time this legislation will be before the House but I imagine it would be around about 4 o'clock- I will come in here and deliver - 
Yes, and I will put forward our argument as to why we believe that this legislation should be thrown out. I have answered  Senator McLaren  who has endeavoured to justify what he has been doing on a so-called committee. As someone else said in this chamber, why does he not give all the evidence? Why does he not have it incorporated in Hansard and we can read the whole lot of it, and not just what he quoted. I am sure that when we come back tomorrow I can explain to the Senate and justify why we believe - 
Debate interrupted. 
As I indicated last night the whole future of this Senate could depend on whether or not this legislation is passed. Every honourable senator in this chamber represents a State, and if we are to have a situation whereby Territories are able to take over or to have representatives here then of course this will weaken the States' representation. As I also indicated last night, there is little doubt that the Australian Labor Government in moving for territorial representation in this House had as its main aim either to destroy the effectiveness of the Senate or ultimately to destroy the Senate, which of course has been its policy. We in the Opposition oppose this legislation on other grounds besides those that I mentioned last night, they being mainly constitutional grounds concerning section 7 of the Constitution which states that the Senate shall be composed of senators for each State. There is little doubt that the Government is using section 122 of the Constitution in order to bring down this legislation. Section 122 states: 
The Parliament may make laws for the government of any territory surrendered by any State to and accepted by the Commonwealth, or of any territory placed by the Queen under the authority of and accepted by the Commonwealth, or otherwise acquired by the Commonwealth, and may allow the representation of such territory in either House of the Parliament to the extent and on the terms which it thinks fit. 
There is little doubt of course that the Government is using section 122 to justify this legislation. We believe that the legislation defies section 7 of the Constitution. As I said last night, the Northern Territory is not a State. There has been no indication that the Government intends to bring it to statehood- nor has there ever been any intention that the Australian Capital Territory should become a State. Of course, once the precedent has been set by two of the territories having representation in this House, the way is open for any government, whether it be the present government or any other government, in order to get control of this place, to do exactly the same thing with other territories that belong to this Commonwealth. There is little doubt that the more that this goes on the less effective will be this chamber as a States House. Government senators have argued that the Opposition is not interested in the Territories but that it treats the people in them as second class citizens. It is interesting to note that it was a government of our persuasion which legislated to give the member for the Northern Territory full voting rights in the House of Representatives. It was a Labor government which tried to strangle a move to set up the Northern Territory Legislative Council in 1930. This move was prevented by the then member for the Northern Territory, a Labor representative, who got support from our side of the House of Representatives. It was our side of the House of Representatives which in 1959, 1966 and 1968 gradually upgraded the voting power of the member for the Northern Territory and the member for the Australian Capital Territory to the full status of all other members. Admittedly these changes did not take place at the same time. So it is absolutely wrong for the Government to suggest that the Opposition is not interested in the Territories. 
As I said last night, I am quite sure that there is no move by the Government to bring the Northern Territory to statehood. There is no move to increase the powers of the Legislative Council, which is the locally elected body of the Northern Territory. As I said, the only reason why the Government wants to bring senators into this place is for political purposes other than the looking after the interests of the Territories concerned. The amendment states: 
Delete all words  after 'that'  and insert: having regard to 
the possibility that the Bill will be the basis of a submission to the Governor-General for a joint sitting of both Houses at which, notwithstanding the opposition of a majority of members of the Senate, the Bill may be deemed to have passed the Senate if an absolute majority of the members of both Houses carry the Bill; 
I think we are getting into a dangerous area when we can allow the other House to have a say as to whether we can admit other people into this place. The amendment continues: 
the fact that the consequences to the integrity of the Senate are of enormous import; 
the fact that 25 per cent of the membership of the Senate has changed since the Bill was last before the Senate; the Bill be referred to a Select Committee of the Senate to inquire into and report to the Senate on or before 31 July 1974 on whether 
the provisions of the Bill are consistent with the provisions of the Constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia establishing the Senate; 
Of course this refers to section 7 of the Constitution, which I mentioned before and which provides that the Senate is to be composed of representatives from the States. The amendment continues: 
the number of Senators proposed to be elected from each Territory is appropriate; 
the right to vote of the Senators elected by electors in the Territories should be restricted to matters affecting the Territories 
I believe that these matters which we hope a Senate committee will investigate are very pertinent to this place. I think it would be extremely wrong, in cases where money is being appropriated by the Government of Australia to a Territory which is receiving very beneficial treatment, for that Territory's representative in this place to have the balance of power. Therefore I have much pleasure in supporting the amendment. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. In view of the numerous statements made by relevant Ministers to the effect that everything in the defence set-up is rosy, particularly where it concerns the pay and conditions of service and the defence forces retirement benefits scheme, will the Minister state why it has been found necessary to embark on a high pressure and costly advertising campaign in order to attract recruits to the armed Services? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Northern Development. Has agreement been reached with the Queensland Government for the construction of a number of beef roads in Queensland? If so, can the full details be supplied? 
-Did the Minister for Agriculture have discussions yesterday with the  Chairman  of the Australian Wool Corporation,  Mr Maiden?  If so, will the Minister say whether the talks will lead to any change in the policy of the Corporation when sales are resumed next month? 
I rise to indicate that I will be supporting the amendment. We have heard some very interesting discussion in this chamber today on this legislation. We have heard honourable senators on the Government side completely changing their views of the past. They are now giving us a lecture on business management and management of the economy of this country but if what has happened over the last 18 months is any indication of how the economy should be managed I think we are better off without the advice. I am one of those who appreciate that there is a need for the charges for the services of a government instrumentality to be increased from time to time so that the income of that instrumentality to some extent measures up to its costs. In other words, enormous losses cannot be tolerated. But we say that in respect of these instrumentalities a certain proportion of their operations should be in the form of special services to special people in the community. 
This argument that every government instrumentality should be able to pay its way and that the users of its services should pay for those services, is ridiculous. Does anybody suggest that the users of hospitals should be the only ones to pay for hospital services; that the users of schools should be the only ones to pay for the costs of running them and the provision of teachers? In the interests of the nation communications should be provided at a loss in a big country like this and paid for by the taxpayers generally. Therefore, some parts of the operations of the Postmaster-General's Department should be funded out of government revenue. But what is happening? Apparently the Government thinks that inflation rates will become steeper and steeper because it is now proposing through these charges to bring about a profit in the Post Office in the next year of many millions of dollars. Rather than increase the charges in the future it will increase them now in order to make a profit in the next year of operation. I wonder whether this is done for the purpose of providing facilities, as was suggested by some honourable senators on the Government side. 
It strikes me that a lot of the measures which were contained in previous budgets, particularly those in relation to rural areas, have been taken out for the express purpose of putting more revenue into the Government's hands so that it can implement its policy of socialisation. These increases will hit country people more than anyone else. In country areas, particularly in the outback, telephonic communication is essential. People hundreds of miles away from a town cannot go down to the end of a street to find a doctor or a block or two to find a hospital. It is absolutely essential in times of tragedy that a telephone service be available so that even if they are unable to get people to hospital they can at least communicate with a doctor to find out what the treatment should be. The operations of many country businesses are conducted almost entirely by telephone. Their customers cannot buy everything they need next door. They cannot walk down the street to a shop or drive for 5 minutes into the city. So they are the people who will suffer the most as the increases continue. lt is not realised by many people that it is not just the individual person who will suffer. The position now is similar to that which prevailed when the fuel subsidy was withdrawn. I have heard Government members say that country people will have to pay a bit more for their fuel. But that is not the only result of the withdrawal of the fuel subsidy. Not only does the individual motorist have to pay more for his fuel but also the people in those areas that are remote from the centres of commerce- the capital cities in particular- and which are dependent on road transport have to pay an increase in transport costs and therefore an increase in the cost of practically everything they purchase. We had another example the other day of an electricity generating board out in one of the far areas of Queensland which had to increase its electricity charges as a result of the increase in fuel costs. So there are a number of avenues in which once you start to increase costs it hits the people in a series of different ways. 
The point that must be remembered, despite what  Senator McAuliffe  said earlier in the day, is that it is always the small people who suffer the most as a result of these savage charges.  Senator McAuliffe  defeated his own case. He said that when charges are increased, businesses can recoup some of the increase in their income tax returns and so it will not cost them so much. But the person who cannot get the cost of such charges deducted from his income tax will have to pay the full charge. So how can  Senator McAuliffe  advance the argument that the ordinary people will be helped because the Government is again increasing charges? How ridiculous it is for such a suggestion to be made. It is the ordinary people who have been hit with all the Government's charges so far despite all the arguments that this is a great Government for the ordinary people. As the economic climate develops, we can see that many ordinary people in this country from now on will be suffering great hardship not only in regard to higher interest rates and increasing inflation. It is only a matter of time before in many cases even their jobs will be in jeopardy. 
I think that it is high time this Government made up its mind about its financial policy and how it will attack inflation. In particular, it should come forward with a policy which will enable the Government itself to reduce charges. It must do this if it is to attack inflation and look after the smaller people in the community. The Government should not be going on a great spending spree aimed at its great policy of nationalisation. It should allow industry to work and develop in such a way that costs and prices can be contained. But since this Government has been in office we have seen measure after measure introduced which can be only inflationary in its effect. Industry has been thrown into chaos in all sorts of ways by the drastic measures taken by this Government. It has interfered with private industry wherever it can. Once there is interference with industry to any extentthis applies particularly to primary industry- this will bring about uncertainty and doubt within those industries and create a situation in which many people will sit back and bide their time. 
There are many people engaged in the production of the wealth of this nation today who do not have much faith in the future. When production is curtailed, the wealth of the nation and the standard of living of its people are curtailed. It is the wealth that is produced, not only what is sold overseas but also by what is produced for local consumption, that determines the standard of living of our people. I think that it is high time this Government made up its mind what its policy is in respect to financial leadership and particularly in respect to inflation. We seem to have about 6 different opinions at the moment. Every now and again another Minister comes forward and gives his personal ideas of how inflation should be tackled. The Ministry decided on drastic measures last week. It introduced a miniBudget. But, of course, before it reached the Parliament the Caucus had a snipe at it. The result was that all the proposals that could have been of assistance in halting inflation were taken out and all the proposals that will accelerate inflation were left in. I think that most of the Ministers today have had to admit that none of the charges, whether it be the postal charges or the increase in the tax on cigarettes and spirits, is anti-inflationary. 
When will we have some positive action from this Government in its financial program? We cannot continue in the situation we saw last week. We had the responsible members of the Government- the Cabinet- presenting one proposition and the Caucus throwing it out and sending them off with another proposition. Let us face the position: In most of these financial operations, one measure can be complementary to another. Why have these increased charges been brought in at this time? Why were not the increases left to the normal Budget time? I feel that the Government is frightened at the moment of what is going to happen. It has suddenly realised what its measures have brought about in the community. It is just beginning to realise that inflation is a serious matter and that it does not have any policy to contain it. Therefore, the Government will have to bring in measures in the next Budget which will not be very palatable to the people. In my opinion, the idea of the Government is to hand out these bitter pills separately and in small doses. 
I believe that it is all right to increase charges if this has to be done. However, I do not agree with the full extent of the increased charges that have been imposed on this occasion. But .as I agreed before, whether it be through inflation or through losses, if there must be an increase in the charges for services that are provided this should be done when the Budget is presented. After all, the Budget is the indication of the financial policy of the Government. It should not have this bits and pieces financial policy of which only half was presented to us last week. I think it is high time that we as an Opposition said to the Government: 'When you bring down your Budget on 17 September we will then make judgment on whether your financial policy is in the nation's interest'. I think that that is the time when these measures should be introduced.  Mr Deputy President,  for those reasons I have much pleasure in supporting the amendments. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. (Quorum formed.) 
-My question is directed to the Minister for the Media. Has a survey been carried out into the blind spots of television transmission from Bellenden Ker in northern Queensland? Is it proposed to erect translators at strategic points in order to improve reception to these blind spots, particularly the HerbertonRavenshoe area and the StratfordRedlynch and Mossman areas north of Cairns? 
I address my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When was the Australian Ambassador in Moscow informed of the Australian Government's decision to recognise the jurisdiction of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics over the Baltic States? 
I wish to associate the Australian Country Party with the amendment moved by  Senator Cotton. 
Naturally. We have very good reason for it too. In the first place, we welcome this new Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill; it is a vastly different Bill from the one introduced last year. We know as a result of the deliberations of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control that business people from all over this nation made submissions to that Committee and demonstrated their attitude towards the previous Bill. There is no doubt that concern was expressed by the business world throughout this country, and I believe it was justified. But of course most of the problem areas have been taken out, and this new Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill is one which, in most parts, we can welcome. 
What is the reason for the change of attitude by the Government in respect of this Bill? I can say quite clearly, and I think that most members of that Committee will agree, that it is a result of the deliberations of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. There is no doubt that the Government and its advisers took notice of the wealth of evidence that came before that Committee. People closely associated with the Government gave evidence. They included  Sir Alan  Westerman who, when we put questions to him, agreed that the intention of the original Bill and the intention of the Australian Industry Development Corporation was not to develop certain ideas that could have been developed through the provisions of that Bill. Therefore, we have decided that safeguards should be put in the Bill, although I do not know whether it is the intention of the Government to accept our proposals. However, I believe that safeguards should be put in because future governments- I do not know whether we could get worse governments than the one we have at the momentmight have the nationalisation of our industries  foremost in their  minds. We are told that the present Government does not have that intention. However, I believe it is necessary to include these safeguards in the Bill. 
Fortunately most of the problem areas have been looked after in the new Bill that is now before us. I, like  Senator Cotton,  want to refer to the second reading speech of the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in which I believe he made an unwarranted attack on the Committee and on its deliberations. This is not only an attack on the Committee members from this side of the Senate; it is an attack also on Committee members from the Government side which after all, had a majority of members on the Committee. Also, the  Chairman  was a Government supporter. 1 believe that members of the Committee carried out their duties to the best of their ability. It was not our fault that the Parliament was prorogued last, February. The fact that we had a double dissolution and an election campaign which interfered - 
It could have been your fault, because after all you decided to go to a double dissolution, not us. (Government supporters interjecting)- 
Government supporters ought to read the Hansards again. Who wanted to hold the double dissolution? All that the Opposition decided was that the House of Representatives should go to the people. 
It was the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who decided the date on which the election would be held. It was the Prime Minister who decided when the Parliament would resume. These decisions affected the operations and deliberations of the Committee. As  Senator McAuliffe  said, the Committee was reconstituted only the other day. 
Along with  Senator Cotton  and  Senator McAuliffe,  I would like to pay a tribute to the work done by  Senator Cant,  the previous  Chairman  of the Committee, who was dedicated in his work in the field of foreign ownership and control. I have been a member of the Committee since it was formed.  Senator Cant  also was a member of the Committee right from its beginning. He always showed a particular interest in mining ventures. I believe that his deliberations on that Committee were fair. Along with  Senator McAuliffe.  the new  Chairman  of the Committee, I believe that  Senator Cant  was responsible to a large extent for persuading the Government to adopt the amendments that are contained in this Bill. 
As  Senator Cotton  has said,  Mr Anthony  made it quite clear in his speech in the other place that the Opposition at that stage was not prepared to oppose the provisions of the Bill because of the uncertainties that surround this matter. The Opposition in the other place felt that it would be better if the Bill went through the House of Representatives and came to the Senate for deliberation. I for one cannot understand the Government's opposition to the Committee bringing in its full report. As  Senator McAuliffe  would well know, we do not have to worry about the fact that new members on the Committee have not been in a position to consider these matters because the Committee had taken all the evidence that it needed and had closed off the references from bodies giving submissions. It is true that there are a few areas which still need to be cleaned up.  Senator Cotton  mentioned some of them. I am talking mainly of areas of unfair advantage in the market place which the AIDC and the National Investment Fund may have. I believe that we need not wait until 1 October which is only the deadline which the Minister has put on the time by which the Committee shall report. The Committee could meet next week and probably finalise its report then. The report could be introduced in the first week of the Budget session when we in this place do very little. 
I know what you do,  Senator Wheeldon,  but, I will not repeat it here. The Budget session will commence in only a month's time and there is no reason why the report of the Committee cannot then be discussed by both sides of the Senate so that a Bill which is acceptable to all members of Parliament can be introduced. I believe that if the legislation has the support of the whole Parliament it will allay the fears of members of the general public and so enable the passage of the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which I believe is an important piece of legislation. I think that it has a very important part to play in the national interest. After all, it was our Governmentthe previous Liberal-Country Party Government- which introduced the legislation. It was the Senate Select Committee of which  Senator McAuliffe  and I were members which stated in its first report that the scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation should be widened and enlarged. 
Consequently, if the Government and the Opposition can come to an agreement on the Bill- I point out that there are only a few areas in which we have disagreement at the moment- I believe that this will be in the interests of the nation. I say this because of the disquiet that at present is attributed to some business people who say that there may be unfair competition. I think that many of their fears would be allayed if both sides of the Parliament were in agreement. If we can assure such people that the areas about which they are still worried will come before a committee of the Parliament before the Bill is passed, that should allay many of those fears. I have a great deal of pleasure in supporting  Senator Cotton's  amendment. I cannot see that it will hold up the passage of this Bill for any length of time. It will mean that a better Bill will be presented to the Governor-General for his signature. 
I ask the Minister for Agriculture: What is the latest position in respect of this season's wool sales? Is the Minister in a position to feil the Senate what will be the role of the Australian Wool Corporation? 
I  present the following petition from 1,988 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas our constitutional parliamentary democracy was clearly developed as a Federation to preserve for all time to the Australian people their cherished right to live as free men and women, enjoying complete liberty of worship, assembly, speech, movement and the communication of knowledge and information. 
And whereas our existing Australian Flag and our national anthem. 'God Save The Queen', are perpetual reminders of these hard-won freedoms and of the wise British principle of the division of power, so well reflected in our own Australian Constitution with its careful separation of powers as between the Crown and Commonwealth Parliament, the Senate, the State Parliaments, the GovernorGeneral and State Governors, and the Independent Courts of Justice. 
And whereas all such rights, liberties, heritage, advancement and prosperity, etc., are of no avail if our Armed Forces are unprepared or incapable of repelling invasion of our shores or withstanding other military threats. 
So therefore must all these things be accorded the highest national concern and priority. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
The most rapid, efficient and largest possible expansion of all branches of our Defence Forces, and greatest possible strengthening and extending of defence treaties and security arrangements with our traditional friends and allies, 
The right of every Australian citizen to vote at a National Referendum or Senate or Federal Elections for the retention of our present Australian Flag and equally of our national anthem, 'God Save The Queen', before any government or other body can attempt to substitute either a new flag or anthem, and a similar voting right for the choice of any official National Song to play on international occasions. 
And your Petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of the alarming shortage of fuel supplies in this country, will the Minister inform the Senate what steps he and the Government are taking to ensure that vital supplies of diesel fuel and gasoline are provided in order to maintain the sugar harvest in Queensland and also the imminent harvesting of that State 's wheat crop? 
I do not propose at this stage to assist  Senator Steele  Hall in deciding on which side of the fence he should get off. He stated that he opposes one of our propositions but supports others. I will not go into the Ermolenko affair. I think we have had it fully debated in this House over the last half dozen days of sitting. If by this stage certain people are not convinced one way or the other I am quite sure that nothing I will say will alter their situation. I will go to the third part of the amendment because I believe that in it we have the very crux of the foreign policy of this Government. We say that the foreign policy alignments that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  is promoting will not serve Australia's national interest. It is all very well for Government supporters to say, as the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  said, that it is a collective decision. It is obviously not a collective decision in Cabinet because Caucus seems to run the Government these days. So we might say that it is a collective decision of Caucus. But there are people outside who control Caucus, so God knows how far we go before we find where the collective decision is made. 
The foreign policy of this Government has been a disaster not only for this nation but for the free world. If the Minister is prepared to accept the responsibilities of the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs and is prepared to accept all the decisions from either his Cabinet colleagues, Caucus or the outside body which controls them, he has to take the responsibility for those decisions. As I said earlier, I believe that our foreign policy has been a disaster. Whenever these matters crop up in this Parliament the communist countries can do no wrong and the Western world can do no right. We have seen this time after time. Because of our geographical situation we need to have strong allies. We need to make sure that we have friends and we must be sure that we have agreements with our friends. Of course, we must have a defence force to back up those agreements. But what have we done in the life of this Government? We have isolated ourselves from our traditional friends, those who have the same parliamentary system of government as we have, who have the same way of life as we have, and who believe in peaceful coexistence. 
-Senator Keeffe knows who they are because they helped him and me when we were up in the islands in the 1940s. I know he was there. These are the people who do not believe in interfering in other people's and other nations' affairs We have rubbished them. This Government and the nation- of course, we are all part of it now- have lost respect throughout the free world, the anti-communist world. We have lost its respect, but whenever a communist nation or one of the - 
-That is all right. We saw  Senator Wheeldon  gyrating always to the 
Left when he made his contribution to this debate. 
I do not know what he was left of but he was going to the Left further and further. I do not know whether he could go any further, he went around so many times. I disagree with the attitude of this Government. 
The words should be that I disagree with the unqualified support that this Government gives to everything that the communist countries do. We have had examples of it here. We had a few questions yesterday and today about fishing boats off Western Australia Men were put in gaol and we complained because  Senator Wriedt  said that we did something about it. Those men happened to be Taiwanese. But what happened to the Indonesian fishing boats? They got different treatment altogether. Whenever there is someone from the Western world the Government has to give him different treatment. 
Yes, like Taiwan. 
-They have just as much right to exist in this world as the Chinese or anyone else but they get different treatment from this Government. We saw a great example of this the other day. The only aspect of the Ermolenko affair I want to refer to is the use of the Royal Australian Air Force aircraft. The Government could use a RAAF aircraft to take Ermolenko out of the country to beat union bans but I have not seen any move to date to use the armed services to avert the fuel crisis in Australia and particularly in areas of Queensland. 
I know that  Dr Patterson  came down and obtained fuel for the Navy up in Cairns but there is none there now. It has all been used. What is the Government doing now about the problems that we have in Queensland today? Honourable senators opposite know what the supply situation is there. They also know that Queensland produces 95 per cent of Australia 's sugar. 
It has a lot to do with Latvia. It has a lot to do with the situation I am talking about because the Government, by giving its support to the communist nations and their fellow travellers in this country, has given them an air of respectability. 
Are they not running riot in the country today? 
-Mr Mundey is quite happy to get up, under the protection of this Government, and say: 'Yes, I am a communist. I am the  President  of the Communist Party in Australia. Just wait. We are going to have an autumn offensive and we will bring this country to its knees'. We do not have to wait for an autumn offensive; we have a spring offensive. Any one who has any knowledge of what is happening in the fuel situation with the Transport Workers Union and the associated unions will know that the position today is very critical. That is why I am saying that this Government's attitude towards the communist nations is not only bad for us overseas but also, by giving an air of respectability to the communists in this country, it has allowed them to use honourable workers, under the guise of obtaining better conditions and higher wages for them, to gain control of key industries, to bring this nation almost to its knees. 
Let us face it. We have a situation where we have a fuel supply of only about 2 days. This is happening. The Government knows that it is happening. The sugar industry which is worth $375m to Queensland, is in jeopardy because it is necessary to have fuel to run the harvesters and mills. The crop cannot be harvested next year or in 6 months time. The same situation applies to wheat. In Queensland the wheat crop is harvested a lot earlier that it is in the other States. It is about to be harvested now in the north. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  I suggest to  Senator Maunsell  that he connect up his arguments. 
I thought I had done that twice. I repeat that because of its alliances and because of its grovelling to the communist countries of the world, the Government has given an air of respectability to the communists in this country. It has put a cover over them and has said: 'You can go and do what you like.' They are now disrupting the industries of this country.  Senator Keeffe  is not interested in what happens to the sugar industry in Queensland. He does not care if the sugar is not harvested. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Maunsell,  if you want to be heard in silence you should not argue with  Senator Keeffe. 
I will accept your ruling,  Mr Deputy President.  These are the facts of the matter. I am concerned that the wheat harvest in Queensland will be coming up very shortly and there will be a shortage of fuel for harvesting that wheat. After all, one cannot harvest wheat by hand. Consequently I would like to know exactly what the Government intends in its policy towards the communist nations. What is it going to do with the communists in this country? The whole nation will go to the wall shortly if this policy continues, and all for what purpose? Maybe it is to sell a bit of wool to China. We still do not know the price. Is that the idea? Is the Government making friends with that nation so that we can trade with it? That is what  Dr Cairns  informs us. He says that we have to be friendly with these countries. Of course we all agree that we have to recognise the fact that they exist. But that does not mean that we have to grovel to them. To this date we do not know what was paid for that wool or what was its quality. Nobody has been prepared to tell us but we know that wool was sold to Communist China. 
We also know that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and others will shortly be visiting Soviet Russia. I presume that that has something to do with the recognition of the Baltic states. Only a few months ago the Prime Minister said that he would not have a bar of it. 
Yes. I will go to any country to find out for myself because I believe that one should not stand in this place, make a decision or give one's views about any nation until one has been there. That is the reason I went there. 
I have given them from time to time. I am quite satisfied that this is a much better country than Russia and much better governed, even if it is under a Labor Government. These are the reasons. 
If Russia had your Government I reckon the Russians would probably rush off to the United States of America and make an alliance with that country straight away. But if you carry on much longer they might change their minds. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Queensland: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The Petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That whereas dangerously accelerating inflation is placing unbearable strain and hardship upon the people of Australia, with consequent serious escalation of industrial strikes, chaos and hostility, 
And whereas neither government economists nor the Federal Government can offer any certain early solution, but continue to propose policies known to have failed in the past- including the claim for centralised control of all wages and prices which has also failed overseas and which the Australian public has rejected decisively by national referendum, 
And whereas the Senate is not only an independent House of Review elected democratically by the people with its own mandate to protect their heritage and constitutional rights, but is the States' House by which all Australians in their own sovereign states formed long before Federation can bring together ideas and plans and resources for their mutual benefit and advancement, 
So accordingly the recent carefully-reasoned proposals of the Premier of Queensland seeking the freezing of taxation, the elimination of sales tax and the reimplementation of consumer subsidies, warrant the most urgent and thorough examination of the Senate. 
Your Petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will take all essential steps without delay to- 
a ) Demonstrate to the Australian public that everything possible is genuinely being done to halt the grave damage being inflicted by inflation upon our economy, by immediately and openly debating the aforesaid proposals of the Premier of Queensland, and 
Call for the widest possible publicity and discussion of these same proposals, especially in view of the surprising scarcity of reports about these in most of the mass media, having regard for the fact that the Premier of Queensland did certainly table such proposals at the official Premiers' Conference lately, also that the practice of price or consumer subsidies worked most successfully and harmoniously between 1943 and 1948, and finally that such broad publicity is in complete accord with the present Federal Government's stated claim of 'Open Government'. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 60 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of 
Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. The Minister will agree that many farmers and farm organisations are irate about the non-reintroduction in the Budget of taxation allowances for the cost of conserving water, soil and fodder. I ask the Minister whether he assured the Australian Farmers Federation that the concessions would be returned. If so, when is it proposed to implement these measures? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Senate on 13 August 1974, without notice: 
When was the Australian Ambassador in Moscow informed of the Australian Government's decision to recognise the jurisdiction of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics over the Baltic States. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer Can he say whether returns from investments in building societies will be exempt from the Government's 10 per cent surcharge on what it calls 1 unearned income '? 
The Australian Country Party will support the Papua New Guinea Bill and the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill. I, like  Senator Greenwood,  have reservations mainly because the Queensland Government was not consulted in this matter. As  Senator Greenwood  has said, if it liked to stick strictly to the provisions of the Bills the Federal Government did not have to consult the Queensland Government on this occasion. However, the boundary between Queensland and Papua New Guinea has received a great deal of attention in the past. This is a contentious area. No doubt, mining in the submerged lands which is carried out under sections of these Bills will affect Queensland if there is any indication that there will be a change in the boundaries. I hope that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  will make sure that if there is any alteration to the original Bills, particularly in relation to boundaries, there will be prior consultation with the Queensland Government. However, as I indicated before, the Australian Country Party will support these measures. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  in which part of the Bill there is the guarantee that all monies collected from the wool growers will go to the Australian Wool Corporation? If at some time in the future funds build up and a revolving fund is required, will the records be kept, particularly amongst the wool brokers and others who sell the wool, of the amounts that have been collected from individual growers? If there is to be a revolving fund that is to operate at some stage in the future, surely records will have to be kept of the payments made by individual growers. I do not think that it would be fair, if we reach a stage at which sufficient funds have been built up to operate a marketing system, for the levy to be cut off, particularly if it is in a time of high prices. It means that those people who paid the levy in times of low wool prices, when they could ill afford to do so, would have set up a scheme which is to benefit those people receiving the higher wool prices at a later stage. I ask the Minister to answer those questions. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. How significant is devaluation in terms of the conditions laid down by the trade unions for wage restraint agreement? Are the unions sceptical despite yesterday's statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade that devaluation would meet the unions' demands and further protection for industry would not be necessary? 
I realise that there is a rush in relation to these wool Bills as we are trying to get so much business done before the Senate rises. At this stage we are discussing 7 wool industry Bills. Five of them are the Wool Tax Bills Nos 1 to 5, another is the Wool Industry Bill and the other is the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill. To save time I shall deal firstly with the 5 Wool Tax Bills. These are aimed mainly at increasing the growers' contribution in order to accommodate the 5 per cent levy which will be imposed for the wool industry to finance its marketing arrangements.  Mr 
Deputy President, could I suggest that all Bills be taken together in a cognate debate? 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, that course will be followed. 
-As far as the Wool Tax Bills are concerned, we do not have any amendments. We appreciate that it is necessary to bring these Bills down so that the money is collected. We also note that there is still the provision of a tax of 2.75 per cent for research and promotion. In passing I point out that the 2.75 per cent, when the wool market is buoyant, could return a great deal more money than is returned under the situation which we have today. We note the explanation given in the other place that this tax should return a greater amount than is required. Therefore any surplus monies will be vested in the Wool Research Fund to overcome shortfalls at some other time. As far as the 5 per cent tax is concerned, this money will go to the Australian Wool Corporation for the express purpose of financing a reserve price scheme. What we are concerned about in relation to these tax Bills is that the money may be relegated to a special fund. Although we do not have any amendments in relation to these Bills it may be necessary to amend them if our amendment to the Wool Industry Bill is carried. The reason for this should be obvious to most people. After all, in relation to research and promotion a certain amount of money comes in each year and a certain amount is expended each year. Therefore, generally speaking, the fund will balance out. For the 5 per cent levy for the Wool Corporation to carry out its marketing proposals it is a different situation altogether. Under the 250c per kilo for 21 micron clean wool it is expected on present production to bring into the Corporation something like $50m a year. 
At times like the present the Wool Corporation has to buy fairly heavily. Large sums of money may be required but it has happened in the past, that the Wool Corporation has not had to operate in the marketplace. In fact, it has been able to sell wool which it brought at a fairly low price and to make a profit on it. So that in 5 years time there could be $250m in the pool. Probably that would be sufficient to operate our floor price scheme. But what does the Government do? Does it levy growers in depressed times, like the present, to make up the fund? When there is sufficient money in the fund it says: 'Okay, we do not need to levy them any more. ' 
Growers who are receiving good prices are not levied. This means that we may have to have a revolving fund so that those growers who contribute in the early years can have money refunded. Those who contribute at present will carry on contributing. Thus it is fair to the whole industry. That is the reason why we have asked that there be a separate fund. It will have to be properly balanced. We will have to know exactly what contributions are paid. If we get the money mixed up and it goes into Consolidated Revenue all the details will be lost. That is all I have to say as far as the Wool Tax Bills are concerned. We support them. We know that the industry supports the 5 per cent levy. We certainly know that it supports the levy for promotion and research. What we want to ensure, of course, is that the various levies are used for the purpose for which they were levied and that they do not find thenway into some other avenue of Government expenditure. 
I turn to the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill. The purpose of this Bill is to decide whether the Government will lend $150m to the Australian Wool Corporation so that it can operate its reserve price plan. This is in addition to the amount of $13m which was mentioned in the Budget speech. We are disturbed that the money is being provided by the Government and not through the traditional avenues of finance which are the trading banks or, if we are unable to gain money through the trading banks, through the rural credits of the Reserve Bank. These are much better avenues by which to maintain the independence of the Wool Corporation than if the money were directed straight from the Government. If the Government is to have a say in the policy of the Corporation and if it is to control the purse strings we feel that the industry could find itself in a position where it no longer has any say. While I do not say that that will be the case the doubt exists all the time that that could take place, particularly in the minds of growers and people in the Opposition. We are disturbed with the situation. 
We have heard 2 different stories as far as the financing of the Corporation is concerned. We have heard that the banks are unable to supply the money. We have also heard that if the Government were prepared to release funds from the Reserve Bank the trading banks would be able to finance this operation, if not to the extent of $150m then certainly for the amount which we expect is necessary for the next few months. It is expected that the wool market will lift towards the end of the year and that the Corporation will have to buy in as heavily as it is doing at the moment only for the next few wool sales. As the Japanese run out of their stocks of raw wool they will come into the market. If they come into the market to the usual extent the Wool Corporation will not be required to buy to any great extent. The Opposition has a proposed amendment to the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill 1 974 which states that the Senate: 
Expresses its concern at the Government's failure to maintain a national economic climate in which the Australian Wool Corporation would be able to borrow, commercially, funds necessary for its functions; and 
Is of the opinion that the Australian Wool Corporation should at the earliest opportunity repay any borrowings under this Bill from Australia - 
I presume that that means from the Australian Government-  and revert to normal commercial sources for rural borrowings for such borrowings as it may need for its marketing operations. 
I believe that this is what the industry wants, as I said earlier, to maintain its independence. We regret that the economic climate that has been created by this Government through inflation and the shortage of funds in the banking sector with its credit squeeze has made this Government measure necessary. The Government has had to provide loan funds for the Corporation. In the past the Australian Wheat Board and other primary industry corporations have been able to borrow through the normal market place with some degree of independence. The second part of the proposed amendment is quite clear. It indicates that when the economic climate becomes clear and more satisfactory and when private banks or other institutions that can lend funds to the Wool Corporation are able to do so, the Government will opt out of this particular loan fund. 
The Wool Industry Bill 1974 has been before the House previously. It is the main Bill concerning the levy on growers. The Opposition has certain amendments to this Bill which I will move in the Committee stage of the debate. The Opposition wants to have, as I have said earlier, a separate fund for the 5 per cent levy. I have already given reasons for our attitude. I should like now to say something generally about the wool industry. A lot of people have had the idea that the Government is backing the wool industry and that everyone in the industry will now receive 250c a kilo for their wool. Unfortunately, those who are not aware to how wool is marketed or who are not aware of the different qualities of wool will believe that the wool industry is having a bonanza. If one relates that 250c a kilo for 21 micron wool to cents a lb for an average clip, say for a merino grower in western Queensland, it  comes back to about 56c a lb- that is, for a reasonably good clip. If one takes 56c a lb on today's cost structure and relates that figure to 36c a lb which the growers were getting when we were in Government- at that stage we maintained it was just a bare living for the wool growers during that wool depression- one will find that the growers who are being paid 56c a lb may be worse off than those who were being paid 36c a lb. The costs in the wool industry, particularly in the remoter areas where a great deal of merino wool is grown, have increased. Transport costs have increased and the petroleum subsidy has been taken away. All these things have added up and have increased the costs of growers in remote areas. 
So by maintaining a 250c a kilo floor for 21 micron wool we certainly are not giving the industry a bonanza. We are giving the industry just sufficient income on which to operate. I know that certain people in the industry regard 250c a kilo as too low. A lot of people in the industry say that they cannot make a profit and they want 300c a kilo. I think we have to be realistic about this matter. I quite agree with the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  that whilst 300c a kilo would have been certainly nice, it was not realistic in view of the price conditions obtaining throughout the world. I think we would have been in a situation where we would have had very few buyers. The Australian Wool Corporation would have been buying all the wool. 
We only hope that when the time comeswhen the Japanese come into the market and when economic conditions overseas improvethe wool manufacturing side of the industry will become a little more economic. We hope we will see a rise in wool prices. Then, of course, the variable reserve price will operate and perhaps we will be able to reach that 300c to which I referred earlier. I propose to move some amendments during the Committee stage. I also have an amendment to the second reading of the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill 1974 which I will move now. I move: 
At end of motion, add but the senate '- 
Expresses its concern at the Government's failure to maintain a national economic climate in which the Australian Wool Corporation would be able to borrow, commercially, funds necessary for its functions; and 
Is of the opinion that the Australian Wool Corporation should at the earliest opportunity repay any borrowings under this Bill from Australia and revert to normal commercial sources for rural borrowings for such borrowings as it may need for its marketing operations '. 
I have an amendment which has been circulated. I move: 
After clause 1 4, add the following new clause: 
After section 84A of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 84B. ( 1 ) An account is hereby established to be known as the Australian Wool Corporation ( Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account. 
The Australian Wool Corporation (Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account is a Trust Account for the purposes of section 62A of the Audit Act 1 90 1 - 1 973. 84C. ( I ) There shall be paid into the Australian Wool Corporation (Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account- 
all moneys received in respect of Wool Tax Acts (Nos lto5) 1974; and 
interest from the investment of moneys standing to the credit of the Trust Account. 
Amounts payable into the Australian Wool Corporation (Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account by virtue of paragraph 1 (a) are payable out of moneys to be appropriated by the Parliament for that purpose. 84D. The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June 1975 cause a report of the operation of the Australian Wool Corporation (Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account during the year ended on that date to be laid before each House of the Parliament. 84E. Moneys standing to the credit of the Australian Wool Corporation (Woolgrowers Marketing) Trust Account may, with the approval of the Minister be expended- 
in the payment of expenses incurred by Australia in connection with the provision of funds directly or via loans guaranteed by the Government under the Act to authorise certain advances to the Australian Wool Corporation and to authorise the borrowing of certain moneys by the Treasurer, and 
to finance the operations of the Australian Wool Corporation in relation to wool marketing as set out in sections 38 to 42 (inclusive) of the Principal Act. 
As I said earlier, this levy has been struck for a particular purpose. It amounts to 5 per cent of the wool grower's proceeds. In many cases at the present level it could amount to all their profit. I believe that when money is collected for a particular purpose there should be an accounting for all expenditure to see where that money has been used. It should not go into Consolidated Revenue. The Opposition is asking that a trust account be set up so that the operations of that account can be laid before the Parliament for its scrutiny and for the scrutiny of those people who have provided those funds. 
I notice that in the other House when the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  was replying he said that the Government intended to bring down further legislation which should cover this matter. He did not explain what it would be. The Opposition is adamant that there should be a separate trust account for these moneys. A considerable amount of money is involved- $50m a year- which could build up if the Australian Wool Corporation showed a profit on its operations from time to time. We could have a situation where the whole of that money levied would go into the Fund. Surely if the industry is to make up any loses that occur, when it has a surplus it should be able to invest that money and attract interest. The main purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the moneys collected in this way are used for the purposes for which they were levied and so that the industry and all members of Parliament will be able to scrutinise the operations of that fund closely. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. I refer to the announcement that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry has requested a special committee to report on the possibility of" finding work for employees at defence factories. I ask the Minister: What is the general level of production and employment in Australia's 8 munitions factories? Has there been retrenchment of workers in any of these factories? 
I should like to indentify the Australian Country Party with these 2 measures. As  Senator Carrick  has said, whilst we support both the Queensland Grant (Ross River Dam) Bill and the Julius Dam Agreement Bill we are dissatisfied with certain aspects of them. At the outset I indicate that these Bills indicate a noticeable change on the part of this Government towards water conservation in Australia, particularly in remote areas. After all, we live in the driest continent. A great number of individual people have been prepared to conserve water in order to conduct particularly primary industries in Australia. At the first opportunity this Government withdrew taxation concessions relating to water conservation and now very few water conservation projects are being undertaken. 
As  Senator Carrick  has said, the Julius Dam is important to the development not only of Mount Isa but also of the whole area surrounding the dam. Immense mineral deposits are waiting to be developed. Whilst the dam itself, when completed, will more than adequately meet the needs of Mount Isa, there is no doubt that in the very near future, once we develop other mining deposits around that area, this dam and the supply of water from it will certainly be necessary. One of the unfortunate things about that area is that although it receives a very high rainfall most of it occurs in a few weeks of the year, and the catchment area for the whole of that mining complex is such that there is very little opportunity to conserve sufficient water for all the mining developments that are projected in the future. Perhaps water will have to be piped in from other areas. Therefore, wherever we can we must support the construction of dams in this area in the nation's interest. After all, the mining ventures in these remote areas are of national importance. Because of the export income that they earn, these mining ventures are of importance to every person in Australia. It will not involve a great deal of expenditure on the part of each person in Australia in order to provide something that will be of great benefit to everyone. 
I turn to the Ross River Dam. It is unfortunate that the money for the construction of this dam was not forthcoming earlier. I know that when the first stage of the dam was completed it was not expected that that part of the dam would fill or that water would be running over the spillway within a few years. But because of the heavy flooding that occurred in north Queensland during the last wet season, almost within a week of the completion of the first stage of the dam water was running over the spillway. Whilst the dam has been able to meet the water needs of the city of Townsville- Townsville has been very short of water for years; until now there have always been water restrictions- it has not been able fully to- solve the flood mitigation problem. Once the second stage of this dam is completed much of the water will bypass Townsville and flow into another area. At the present time most of the water has to flow over the spillway. We hope that the second stage of the dam can be completed before any more cyclones or heavy falls of rain occur in that area. When the second stage of the dam is completed the area surrounding it and the Townsville district can proceed with plans for the future. 
I agree with Senate Carrick who said that there are all sorts of great plans for the city of Townsville. It was stated that Townsville would be one of the great growth centres of this nation if a Labor government came to power. Not only have the defence forces in Townsville been reduced, Townsville itself depends on the great wealth earned by the pastoral industry and the mining industry. We know what is happening to our great pastoral industry at the present time, and that doubts have been cast on the mining industry progressing to the stage where deposits will be developed. 1 refer, for example, to the Greenvale nickel project. No doubt it is only a matter of time before nickel will be treated there in vast quantities, and provision has been made to expand the nickel treatment plant fairly soon. But I am afraid that even that will take some years to achieve in the present economic climate. Because such contracts are written well before the project gets under way, inflation and currency matters have prevented this project from developing too quickly. At this stage only such nickel ore can be produced as can be handled by the treatment plant. 
These sort of projects are more important to Townsville than the setting aside of great areas of land for development, as has been done in the Albury-Wodonga area where all sorts of loan funds have been provided for all sorts of other development. It is individuals who will develop these areas, and they will develop them to a much greater extent and in a much more efficient manner than will governments. As long as governments provide sufficient funds to carry out projects such as the construction of dams for the benefit of all the people, as is being done on this occasion, then all that the Government has to do is to create the climate for the development of those areas, and particularly the development of private industry in those areas. The Australian Country Party supports these 2 measures. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that Australia has failed to gain a major meat export contract with Russia because the price asked was too high? What part did the Departments of Overseas 
Trade and Agriculture play in attempting to secure that contract? Is the Government actively searching for alternative markets to alleviate the desperate situation now facing the Australian meat industry? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the next triennial Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party is due to be held in a few months' time? Is it also a fact that decisions made by that Conference are binding on all parliamentary members of the Labor Party? In the event of the Conference bringing down policies contrary to those adopted by this Government, with particular reference to the recent Budget, does that mean that those measures which have been overturned by the Conference will be rescinded? 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer received protests against the Government's proposed capital gains tax and representations from sections of industry calling on the Government not to proceed with the tax? Will he tell the Senate which industries are protesting and whether their arguments have merit? 
I  present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth:- Divorce is a social and medical problem not a legal issue and be relieved accordingly. 
There must be urgent reform and the Family Law Bill must be presented to Parliament forthwith and accepted without further delay. 
Irretrievable breakdown must be the only ground with a maximum of twelve months separation. 
All Family Matters must come out of the Legal System. 
There must be No Lawyers- No Courts- And Especially- No Judges. 
D.L.R.A. ' S. Proposals must be considered for the New Divorce Laws. 
1 ) The persons themselves to record their own divorce at the place where Marriages are made. 
Guidelines to be established by Mediators (Non Lawyers) to resolve difficulties particularly with children and property. 
Joint Custody and Mutual Financial Support of children where possible. 
Child Endowment to Provide Financial Support of Children when needed. 
Property disputes to be resolved as an ordinary Civil Matter. 
Adults not self supporting to be regarded as unemployed or on sickness benefit or pensions. 
Only the breach of Agreement should incur Legal Process and the Family Law Bill used as a last resort, with family courts for enforcement only. 
The motivation of lawyers in family matters is for profit only and their involvement has proved a disaster for the community since 1939. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. In view of statements made by leaders in the meat industry that a critical financial situation is facing meat producers in the next few months, can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government intends to provide special bridging finance to help tide these producers over the difficult period? 
Will the Minister for Agriculture inform the Senate of the recommendations of the meeting held in Washington aimed at establishing a world body in an attempt to stabilise the marketing of meat? Does the Minister agree that something has to be done in the near future if a serious economic crisis in the industry is to be avoided? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Did the Prime Minister claim yesterday that no government had done more for farmers than his Government has done? Did he also state that his Government had replaced concessions and subsidies with much more valuable benefits? Can the Minister outline any measures taken by this Government which are more beneficial than the concessions estimated at $500m which were withdrawn? What has the Government done to alleviate the impact of increased levies and charges and the cost of production increases resulting from the Government's disastrous financial policy? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. Will the Minister agree that the Neptune aircraft is no longer suitable for maritime reconnaissance and is too costly to maintain? As the question of a replacement for this aircraft has been considered for some time, will the Minister inform the Senate whether an aircraft has been selected and, if so, when it will be operating? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Did the Government frown upon multinational companies and foreign capital before and after it came to office in 1972? Has the Government now conceded that overseas capital is essential to give stimulus to business investment? If so, what encouragement is the Government giving to those overseas investors who have invested in Australia, some over many years, and who since the advent of this Government have been disadvantaged because of the Government's previous policy? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate in his capacity as Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer to the new guidelines affecting the operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal and I ask: Will the Tribunal be placed in a dilemma by having on the one hand to permit higher profit levels and on the other to honour its statutory responsibility to control the level of price rises? Does the Prime Minister's announcement support widespread criticism by companies and business organisations of Tribunal decisions? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to a statement reported to have been made by  Dr Cairns  that relations between Australia and America were now excellent on both sides. I ask: Is it not a fact that Australian-American relations were always excellent until last year when  Dr Cairns  and other senior Ministers severely criticised the United States Administration? Does this indicate a change of view on the part of  Dr Cairns  and other senior Ministers towards the United States? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it correct that the Federal Conference of the Labor Party, to be held in February, can negate any decision or action already taken by the Labor Government? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration recall a statement by the Minister for Labor and Immigration on 18 August of this year that he thought most Government members would sooner resign than preside over unemployment of 250,000 people. I ask whether the Minister agrees with yesterday's forecast by  Mr Hawke  that 300,000 people may be out of work in January? If the number of unemployed does exceed 250,000 people, will the Minister resign or will he be transferred to another portfolio? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Is it a fact that the Prime Minister will take part in the opening ceremony of the first cricket test in Brisbane? Is it also a fact that the invitation to attend was issued by the Lord Mayor of Brisbane without the approval of the Queensland Cricket Association or the Australian Cricket Board of Control? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I ask: Is the Prime Minister concerned that he is leaving himself open to criticism as a leader who presides over havoc at home and gains his inspiration from visits to the ruins of the world? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the 24 per cent pay increase to pilots granted by Trans-Australia Airlines against the direction of the Minister for Transport. I ask: Was this the result of intrusion by the Australian Council of Trade Unions? I also refer to the Industries Assistance Commission's recommendation for a 25 per cent increase in tariffs on textiles and certain other goods. I ask: Was this the result of an ACTU ultimatum to the Government? Are these not further instances of the Government's having to be prompted and threatened into reversing wrong decisions? 
The Opposition supports this Bill. As was outlined in the second reading speech, it seeks to increase the pension of those who have retired under either the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act or the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Act 1973-1974. These are interim payments to offset inflation and what has been taken into account in arriving at these increases is the 16.2 per cent increase in the average weekly earnings from March 1973 to March 1974. The Opposition has supported in the past increases in pensions, particularly to those who were eligible under the pre- 1959 Act and the post- 1959 Act. The Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation, known as the Jess Committee, recommended that there be automatic annual adjustments based on average weekly earnings. So far the Government has not been able to bring down legislation to give effect to that recommendation. I can understand that there are problems associated with it. The Committee also recommended that the anomalies that have existed between those who retired prior to the 1972 Act and those who have retired since be cleared up. 
The Opposition queries whether the 16.2 per cent increase of these pensions is sufficient to combat the galloping inflation which is taking place in this country at present. It also feels that although the Government has a committee working apparently to try to iron out the anomalies between the provisions which operated prior to the 1972 scheme and those which apply to members who retired after the 1972 scheme, it is apparently taking a long time for this to be done. The Opposition, as was mentioned in the other place, recommends that the Jess Committee or its equivalent be reestablished in order to check on the anomalies and to bring, as we call it, justice to a lot of those people who retired prior to the new scheme coming into effect on 1 October 1972. 1 believe that a case has been made out for this move. In considering this question we can only go on actuarial figures. I ask the Senate to compare the 1972 scheme with the 1959 scheme. In 1959 the contribution of the employer, that is the Government, was about 78 per cent. In fact it may have been more than 78 per cent. The scheme was designed to comprise a 78 per cent contribution by the Government and approximately a 22 per cent contribution by the contributors. The Actuary has given figures for the DFRDB scheme as at 1 October 1972. They show that there was a 9 1 per cent contribution by the Government and a 9 percent contribution by the contributors. 
If these figures are. correct and the Government was contributing 78 per cent in 1959 the Government would have paid $350 for every $100 paid by a contributor. Under the new scheme with a 91 per cent contribution by the Government- I am going on the Actuary's estimate in this case- for every $100 paid by contributors the Commonwealth will contribute something like $1,000. In other words under the previous scheme $100 worth of contribution would purchase something like $450 of benefit and under the present scheme will purchase about $1,100 worth of benefits. There is very little drain on the funds of superannuation schemes when the schemes are first implemented. Funds of superannuation schemes are usually built up to a high degree in the first few years of a scheme's operation. This is what happened, of course, in the original DFRB scheme. Under this scheme the Commonwealth does not contribute at the same time as do the contributors. In most superannuation schemes the employer matches the employee's contribution at the time the employee's contribution is made and both contributions are paid into the fund. But under this scheme the Commonwealth pays its share only when withdrawals from the fund take place. Consequently, until the introduction of this new scheme, a great deal of the money that had been withdrawn from the fund had, in fact, been contributors' money. 1 think we recommended that the Commonwealth's contribution should be paid at the same time as is the contributor's. I know that there was a surplus of some millions of dollars prior to the new scheme's coming into operation. Anyone who was a serving member of the Forces until 1 October 1972 was able to adjust his contribution and become a member of this new scheme. Of course those who retired prior to that date were paid under the provisions of the old scheme. 
I think when we have a scheme that is as beneficial as the new one has proved to be- this can be seen from the figures I gave earlier- there is a case for ensuring that those people who retired prior to I October 1972, whether as a result of accident or because they had to retire, have a deal that is at least reasonably comparable to the scheme applying to those who retire after 1 October 1 972. This is why I believe we should set up a committee. I know that a letter has been sent to the Minister for Defence asking that a committee be set up with the following terms of reference: 
1 ) Arc there any anomalies, inequities or injustices suffered by beneficiaries under the DFRB Act 1948-1973 who retired prior to I October 1972? 
What measures should bc taken to correct the anomalies, inequities or injustices, if any, revealed by such inquiry? 
If the Government is prepared to reconstitute this committee to look at those 2 aspects and report back to the Parliament we will be able to satisfy most of the complaints of those people who retired prior to that date. I think something like 8,000 or 9,000 people are involved. They feel that they have suffered an injustice because they do not come under the provisions of the new Act. They want to know how they can come under the new Act. I think it is a matter for a committee of this Parliament to sort this out as promptly as it can. 
Yes, those 2 matters I mentioned. We welcome this Bill and we hope it has a speedy passage through the Parliament. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration whether, in view of the Government's repeated expressions of confidence that trade unions would heed the call for wage restraint as a means of checking inflation, the Public Service pay rise is a clear indication that the real value of wages and salaries continues to fall as the rate of inflation climbs. Will yesterday's decision inevitably lead to another round of wage claims and further deterioration of Australia's economic crisis? 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I refer to the Government's painstaking attempts to convince the people that Australia's persisting high levels of inflation and unemployment are the result of the world economic situation and that both are imported. I refer also to the Prime Minister's statement last weekend that it was garbage to say that the tariff cuts had caused unemployment. In view of the conflicting statements coming from spokesmen for the Government, I ask: Has the Prime Minister requested his economic advisers to prepare a paper on these matters? If not, will he do so? 
Following the last division in which the increased membership of the Corporation was successfully opposed, the Opposition does not see any need to extend the number of members required for a quorum. So as far as the Opposition is concerned there is no need now for clause 8. 
Question put: 
That clause 8 stand as printed. 
I move the following amendment to clause 9: 
At the end of proposed section 20a.  (  1 ), add 'and appropriate employer groups '. 
We oppose this proposed sub-section. I have already moved that it be deleted. 
The Opposition will support  Senator Hall  in this amendment. We believe that the clause has connotations that worry a lot of people. Provided that the Corporation can secure wool, which it no doubt can through the reserve price scheme- under that scheme it buys in wool- I believe that it will be able to supply any aid programs without this word 'acquiring' appearing in the Act. 
Because we have taken out proposed section 20a (2) we believe that clause 18 now becomes redundant. 
Clause negatived. 
Title agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report adopted. 
The Opposition will support the amendment. 
Can the AttorneyGeneral inform the Senate whether  Mr Ditchburn  and his wife had interests in the travel agencies called Offline and George R. Smith? Is it true that one of these agencies is currently being inquired into by the New South Wales Commissioner of Corporate Affairs? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I suggest that the Wool Industry Bill (No. 2) 1974 and the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill (No. 2) 1974 be debated cognately. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I realise that a measure such as this has great importance for our greatest industry in Australia, the wool industry, but unfortunately we must rush these Bills through the Senate without sufficient time to study them. We know that in the other place the Bills were debated at some length. I realise that if amendments are carried the Bills will have to go back to the other place before it rises. 
Firstly, I refer to the Wool Marketing (Loan) Bill. The Opposition does not oppose this Bill, but we would like to emphasise that it provides for a loan at current interest rates and is not a contribution by the taxpayers. We appreciate that some time ago we passed a Bill that imposed a levy on growers of about 5 per cent which, under current production and with the reserve price set by the Australian Wool Corporation, should bring to the Corporation approximately $50m a year of growers' money. Consequently, it will be only a matter of time before the growers ' contributions will be sufficient for the operation of the Wool Corporation. Of course that will take a few years. In the meantime the Government is lending $200m which the Corporation can call on, as it requires to carry out the floor price scheme. We believe also that the Corporation should, whenever possible, be encouraged to borrow its money from the private sector because if growers' contributions in the future are to be sufficient to operate the whole of the marketing arrangements, no doubt the Corporation should be able to get its money from wherever it desires and not be subject to any government interference. We would prefer that opportunities be given to the Corporation to look to lenders other than the Government for loan money. Because the growers will in time contribute all that is required to operate this scheme, we believe that there should be little government interference in the operations of the Corporation. That is why we have moved so many amendments in the 
Senate that are aimed at taking away Government directions and control and leaving control mainly in the hands of the industry. 
During the Committee stage I will be moving amendments to various clauses of the Wool Industry Bill. We will be opposing clause 5 of the Bill which is aimed at expanding the membership of the Corporation. It may be that the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  can explain why he wants to have an extra member and why he wants greater control over the membership. However, to save time I think we can deal with this matter at the Committee stage rather than now. We seek to amend other clauses. At this stage I state that the Opposition has consulted all sections of the industry to ascertain their views on this matter. I must say that the Australian Wool Industry Conference, which is the major body controlling the interests of wool growers in Australia, agrees with the amendments that we will be putting forward. 
The wool industry is going through a very difficult period at present. We know that in many cases the returns to growers are below the cost of production. We hope that the returns will improve to such an extent in the future that this great Australian industry will be able to operate on the buoyant basis on which it operated for so many years. Whilst the wool industry may not be as important to the Australian economy and our overseas funds as it was in past years it is probably still the major contributor, taken over a period of years, of all industries to our overseas funds. Because 95 per cent of our wool is sold overseas and only 5 per cent of it at the most is used locally the industry has always been in a position in which it has been dependent upon the state of the economy of the purchasing countries and has always been in difficulty in Australia because of the high cost structure at home. It is one of the few industries that cannot pass off its costs because of the high export factor. 
We believe that the Australian Wool Corporation has a tremendous job to do. We are endeavouring to see that it can function in such a way that it will be able to do all it can in the interests of the wool industry, which encompasses not only the wool growers but also many other people. In fact the whole nation is eventually involved in the prosperity or otherwise of the wool industry. We believe that the industry itself should decide on and have the major say in what should happen and how it should conduct its marketing operations and that it should not be under the direction of governments or that it should be as little as possible under the direction of governments. I will not hold up the Senate any further at this stage. I will be moving a number of amendments to this Bill at the Committee stage of the debate. I will have a lot more to say then about why I am moving them and why the Opposition believes that the amendments are necessary. Suffice to say that we of the Opposition agree with a great deal of what is contained in the Wool Industry Bill (No. 2). 
The Opposition will oppose clause 5. We do not see why an extra member should be appointed to the Australian Wool Corporation. Whilst there are provisions within clause 5 with which we agree- for example, that there be a rotation of the membership and that all the members should not be elected at the one time- we are concerned that if this clause is passed certain members of the Corporation will be replaced before their term is due to expire. I say that particularly in view of speeches made in the other place by supporters of the Government. I refer to the Minister for Northern Development. Because of statements made concerning certain members of the Board, we believe it would be very bad at this stage anyway if confidence in the Corporation was destroyed by removing certain members. Also we do not see why, in the short term- when I say in the short term I mean maybe four or five years- when the growers themselves will have contributed the necessary funds to operate the reserve price scheme, the grower members should be subject to selection by the Minister. If the industry is to have so much financial involvement in the operations of the Corporation, we believe it should have the right to select its own members of that Board without having to submit a panel of names from which the Minister can choose whomever he desires. We believe that the bad features of this clause outweigh the good features. At no stage have we heard why a special member or a new member with special qualifications should be appointed. We do not know what special qualifications are required. We do not have any idea of the type of person the Minister has in mind. Consequently in that case we believe that we should not extend the composition of the Board. We believe it is sufficient as it operates at present. We will oppose clause 5. 

Leave out the clause, insert the following new clause: 
After section 28 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 28a. (I) The Corporation shall establish and maintain a fund to be known as the Market Support Trust Account. 
Amounts paid to the Corporation in accordance with section 84b shall be placed to the credit of the Market Support Trust Account. 
Moneys standing to the credit' of the Market Support Trust Account may be used by the Corporation for the purchase of wool in the performance of its function or in the payment of advances to growers the marketing of whose wool has been delayed by reason of the exercise of the powers and functions of the Corporation, or may be invested in accordance with section 36 and the accounts of the Corporation shall identify amounts so used or invested. 
There shall be credited to the Market Support Trust Account- 
income derived from investments made in accordance with sub-section ( 3 ); 
interest received on advances made in accordance with sub-section (3), less administrative expenses incurred by the Corporation in connexion with those advances; and 
amounts representing interest on moneys standing to the credit of the Market Support Trust Account and used by the Corporation for the purchase of wool, being interest at rates determined by the Corporation. 
As soon as practicable after 30 June 1975, the AuditorGeneral shall certify to the Minister whether the Corporation has made a profit or incurred a loss as a result of the operations of the Corporation in respect of its reserve price scheme in the period that commenced on 2 September 1974 and ended on 30 June 1 975 and the amount of that profit or loss, and the Minister shall deliver a copy of the certificate to the Corporation. 
The operations of the Corporation referred to in subsection (5) shall be deemed to include its operations in connexion with the making of advances to growers during the period referred to in that sub-section, and costs (including valuation costs), losses and receipts of interest (other than amounts credited to the Market Support Trust Account) in connexion with those advances shall be taken into account accordingly and separately specified and in the event of this not being achieved within six calendar months of 30 June 1975 then an interim report on the operation of this account will be presented to the Parliament by the Minister, within fourteen sitting days of 30 December 1 975. 
The certificate referred to in sub-section (5) shall not be given until the whole of the wool purchased by the Corporation under its reserve price scheme in the period referred to in that sub-section has been disposed of, and the proceeds of that disposal (including disposal after the end of that period) shall be taken into account for the purposes of that sub-section. 
The costs to be taken into account in ascertaining, under sub-section (5), whether the Corporation has made a profit or incurred a loss or the amount of such a profit or loss include interest paid or payable by the Corporation on borrowed moneys used for the purposes of the operations referred to in that sub-section and costs incurred by the Corporation in connexion with those operations that are of a kind that have been approved by the Minister as being storage, handling or selling costs but, subject to sub-section (6), do not include costs incurred by the Corporation in connexion with wool before it is purchased by the Corporation. 
If the certificate under sub-section (5) discloses a loss, the amount of that loss, as specified in the certificate, shall be debited to the Market Support Trust Account. 
10) In ascertaining, for the purposes of section 33, the profit or loss of the Corporation for the financial year ending on 30 June 1975, there shall not be taken into account the operations of the Corporation referred to in sub-section (5) or any income or interest referred to in sub-section (4). 
If the certificate under sub-section (5) discloses a profit, that profit shall be dealt with in accordance with section 33 as if it were profit of the Corporation for a financial year to which that section applies. 
If any moneys stand to the credit of the Market Support Trust Account after the profit or loss certified under subsection ( 5 ) has been dealt with in accordance with subsection (9) or ( 1 1 ), those moneys shall be applied by the Corporation for such purpose in relation to the wool industry as is determined by the Minister after approval has been given by the Australian Wool Industry Conference in writing to the Minister. 
This is quite a long amendment but we are merely trying to change the fund from the Wool Marketing Fund to a trust fund. We dealt with this argument on the last occasion this matter was before this House. Debate on this Bill has taken place in the other place. We believe that there is more security so far as a trust fund is concerned. However, I will not canvass all those arguments now. There is one section of our amendments which we believe is necessary. I should like to hear the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  comment on it. Sub-clause (6) of clause 10 states in part: 
. an interim report on the operation of this account will be presented to the Parliament by the Minister, within fourteen days of 30 December 1975. 
The Bill as presented to us by the Minister states that a report should be presented 'as soon as practicable after 30 June 1975'. We believe that the Parliament should know the situation in relation to wool that has been purchased by the Corporation over any length of time. Wherever possible, reports should be made to the Parliament at least every 6 months. I will not pursue this further. We simply believe that a trust fund should be established. I think one of my colleagues wishes to elaborate a little further on this matter. 
In accordance with the amendments which have been circulated, I move: 
Insert the following new clause:  10a. After proposed section 28a of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 28b.  (  1 ) An account is hereby established to be known as the Market Support Trust Account. 
The Market Support Trust Account is a Trust Account for the purposes ofsection 62  a  of the Audit Act 1 90 1 - 1 969. 28c. (1) There shall be paid into the Market Support Trust Account- 
) all moneys received in respect of Wool Tax Acts ( Nos 1to 5) 1974; and 
interest from the investment of moneys standing to the credit of the Trust Account. 
Amounts payable into the Market Support Trust Account by virtue of paragraph1 (a) are payable out of moneys to be appropriated by the Parliament for that purpose. 28D. The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after 30 June 1975, cause a report of the operation of the Market Support Trust Account during the year ended on that date to be laid before each House of the Parliament. ' ". 
Actually, the intention to move for the insertion of this new clause was provisional upon proposed new section 28a being agreed to. 
Proposed new clause negatived. 
Clause 1 1 agreed to. 
Clause 12. 
After section 39 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted: 39a. Without limiting the functions of the Corporation under section 38, the functions of the Corporation include, to such extent as the Minister approves, trading in wool and wool products, acquiring and supplying wool for the purposes of programs of aid by Australia to other countries, and manufacturing, or arranging for the manufacture, of wool products. '. 
The Opposition will support  Senator Hall  in this amendment. We do not see the necessity for the Corporation to get involved in the processing of wool. I know that there are difficulties in certain areas, and as far as the United States market in the future is concerned it may be that we will have to process our wool to a certain stage in order to enter that market to any great extent. Wool processing plants in the United States are going out of production. But that processing can still be done under this Bill by the ordinary private enterprise processors within Australia. That is why we will support  Senator Hall  in this amendment. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to  be  left out  (Senator Steele Hall's  amendment) be left out. 
The Opposition's proposed amendment to clause 16 is now unnecessary. We will not proceed with it because we were defeated on a previous amendment which makes this amendment redundant. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 17 agreed to. 
Clause 18 
Section 90 of the Principal Act is amended by adding al the end thereof the following sub-section:- 
A report under sub-section ( 1 ) shall refer to any directions given by the Minister under sub-section (2) of section 20a in the year to which the report relates. '. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Can he inform the House whether  Mr Ditchburn  who was appointed to the Films Board of Review, is or has been an importer of films? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. How many industrial organisations and individual companies have appealed to the Government in the past 6 months for protection against imports? How many of these applications have been referred to the Industries Assistance Commission and with what result? Will the Leader of the Government endeavour to obtain this information and make it known to the Senate before the recess? 
Firstly, on behalf of the Opposition I would like to say that we deplore the handling of this Bill by the House of Representatives. We all know that the wool industry is Australia's most important industry and at this stage it is going through difficulties. In the main, the Opposition supports the additional powers which are proposed for the Wool Corporation. This Bill was sent across to the Senate from the House of Representatives on Thursday last week. We did not receive the Bill until 8 o'clock at night some 2 hours after the House of Representatives was due to rise. We had to debate the Bill immediately. It went back to the House of Representatives and without due consideration being given to it the House of Representatives sent the Bill back to us in its present form. I believe that had the House of Representatives been prepared to concern itself with this legislation much earlier in the session and had given us more time to consider it we possibly could have come to some agreement with the Government. 
There are 2 main areas in which the Opposition and the industry have expressed concern. One concerns the reconstitution of the Corporation. There is a feeling throughout the inductry and amongst members of the Opposition that the interests of the growers would be jeopardised to a certain extent by this legislation. The legislation provides for the appointment of a member with special qualifications. The Opposition would like to know what special qualifications are necessary. Had we had time to discuss this with the Minister we possibly could have been satisfied with what the Minister had in mind. In the interim since last Thursday I have been able to discuss these matters. We have been able to raise our particular concern with the Minister. I would hope that at this stage the Minister will give us some assurance of what he has in mind. It is important that the Wool Corporation should retain the confidence of all sections of the industry which is going through difficult times. If the Minister can do this I am quite satisfied that we would be happy to accept the legislation. 
The other important area concerned proposed new section 20a (1) and 20a(2). We ask that not only should trade unions be consulted in the new avenues in which the Corporation is embarking but also that employer groups should be included. We also feel that there is a danger of ministerial direction in respect of industrial matters. We wanted to find out whether this direction applied only to the supply and management section of the Corporation's new powers and the future operations of the Corporation in that area because when one talks about the wool industry one covers a pretty wide field. Many people are concerned that there may be ministerial direction in respect of arbitration decisions made way back at the grass roots concerning shearers awards and station hands awards. At this stage I ask the Minister whether he can give the Opposition some assurance in relation to those areas. If he can, we will decide what we do from that point on. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that buildings are being erected near the site of the Institute of Marine Science near Townsville for the purposes of a quarantine station? If so, will this be in addition to, or will it replace, the existing station at Cape Pallarenda? If it is an additional station, what will be its main purpose? 
I direct my question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the question asked of him yesterday in which  Senator Keeffe  alleged questionable actions on the part of the Premier of Queensland in the handling of Darwin relief funds, is the Minister aware of an answer given by the Minister for the Northern Territory in the House of Representatives on Tuesday in reply to a question concerning cyclone Tracy and the Darwin Trust Fund in which he said that up to that morning $1,779,000 had been received by the trust and of that figure $1.3m had been paid by the Queensland Premier on behalf of the people of Queensland. 
The Minister went on to say: 
On behalf of the people of Darwin I congratulate the people of Queensland for the contribution that they have made of $ 1 . 3m out of $ 1 . 779m. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I refer to the Government's undertaking of last September to increase certain repatriation pensions and to extend service pension eligibility in the current sittings of Parliament. Can the Minister assure the Senate that those promises will be honoured? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Has the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Vietnam requested permission of the Australian Government to set up an information office in Australia? If so, who made the request, and has the Government agreed? Finally, is the tent which has appeared this morning on the lawns outside Parliament House with pro PRG signs to be the new centre? 
-The Minister for Agriculture will recall stating last week that the Premier of Queensland had not made substantial offers to the Federal Government on the matter of joint State and Federal help to overcome the crisis in the beef industry. Is the Minister aware that Queensland has made available $10m at 2 per cent interest to beef producers in that State? Will the Minister agree that producers, particularly in central, northern and western Queensland and in the Northern Territory, who cannot diversify must receive adequate finance and low interest rates in order to survive the present crisis? Will the Minister consider making funds available at lower interest rates to support the Queensland scheme so that more producers can be helped to stay on their properties? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Will he confirm or deny a statement made yesterday by the Minister for Northern Development that the Government is considering dropping the 1 .6c per lb beef export levy? Is this one of a number of proposals to assist the beef industry? If so, what others are contemplated? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: Has the Minister for Defence received assessments from overseas sources and/or his own strategic advisers causing him to revise his opinion that Australia will not face a threat to its security for 15 years? Has the Minister specifically asked his defence experts for a re-assessment in the light of increased Soviet naval presence in the Indian Ocean? 
I rise to support  Senator Durack  who led ibr our side of the House in this debate. I remind  Senator McAuliffe  that we are supporting the present Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill which is before this Parliament. It is not the Bill that was introduced originally.  Senator McAuliffe,  during his speech, referred mainly to the activities of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control and, more or less, to the history of these Bills before this chamber. I support what he said on that occasion when he introduced that report into this House. He said that  Dr Cairns  had not given the Senate Select Committee a fair go and that the Committee would have been able to report had the Minister given the Committee an opportunity to do so. 
This is the crux of the whole matter. Had the Senate Select Committee been able to report this time last year or been given time to finish its report- it had only a short time to go- the Australian Industry Development Corporation, in the form in which it is presented to us this evening, would have been in operation and would have been carrying out the purposes for which it was designed. But for political reasons, I imagine, mainly because the Government is desperate to find election issues to save its own hide, the Government did not allow that Senate Committee to report but introduced the Bills again. 

 Senator McAuliffe referred to the various members of the community, particularly the trading banks and others who gave evidence before the Committee, who were fearful of the effect that provisions of the original Bill would have on the Australian community. I remind  Senator McAuliffe  that the submissions made by those people were in connection with the original Bill, not the Bill that has now been introduced and which incorporates 28 amendments which have more or less allayed the fears of the people to whom I have referred. Not only did those persons prove their point in the submissions they presented to that Committee but they also proved it to the then Minister for Overseas Trade. He has introduced a watered-down Bill which allays most of their fears. The fact that the Minister was prepared to make those amendments to the Bill justifies that statement. We all know that foreign ownership of our resources is a very sensitive area in the public arena. 
We have always believed in it. I will deal with  Senator Keeffe  later on. He can make his speech when I sit down. The fact of the matter is that the Government, in doing what it is doing now and throughout the history of these Bills has shown that it is not interested in whether the AIDC can fulfil its role and take over Australian equity in some of our resources. The Government is more concerned with the political aspects of it. The Government was aware that the original Bill caused irritation within the Australian community. It is a very sensitive area. The Government was prepared to delay the legislation for 12 months, and for 2 years if necessary, so that it could make a political point and store something away for a future election. This is one piece of legislation that the Government aimed to store away and perhaps use as the basis for a double dissolution. 
As I said before, this is a sensitive area within the Australian community. If the Government had been fair dinkum it would have allowed the Senate Select Committee to bring down its report. I believe that had that been done last year we could have debated these Bills at this time last year, not now, and we would have come to some agreement as the differences between the Opposition and the Government in relation to the AIDC are very small. 
-This is what the Government says. We are supporting it today because we believe that if we were to stand for what should be done, that is, that the Committee should bring down its report so that we can have a look at it, we would hold this Bill up for another 12 months. That would not be in the interests of the Australian community. I say that the Government was not sincere in wanting this Bill. The then Minister for Overseas Trade was not sincere in wanting this Bill last year. The Government was more concerned with putting something else on the stockpile for a future election. This Bill is - 
I wish  Senator Poyser  had been on that Committee; he might have learnt a lot. As I said earlier, as far as this Bill is concerned there is very little difference between what the Opposition believes and the Government believes. 
Of course,  Senator Keeffe  has not woken up to the fact that we are not opposing it. 
I am talking about the AIDC and  Senator Poyser  is well aware of that. The interesting point is that the Government always talks about getting Australian equity in our resources. Originally the Government did not tell those industries which had overseas control that it would have a policy under which there would be only 50 per cent of overseas ownership and that it expected the industry, over a period of years, to divest itself of the other interests. The policy of the Government was to move into any industry, demand shares in it and take it over. That is contrary to Australian business principles. If the Government was so sensitive about Australian ownership of resources it could have legislated and provided that no company or enterprise could have more than 50 per cent, 60 per cent, or whatever it might be, overseas ownership. It could have provided that those companies which cannot operate unless they have extended overseas ownership, could appear before an appropriate board which would make a decision as to how it would operate. There are a lot of our great mining industries in which infrastructure has to be provided long before the venture is operating. It probably takes years and the investment of millions of dollars before even a return comes back. Honourable senators opposite know very well from our experience in Australia that Australians will very seldom invest in high risk ventures and ventures that do not show a profit for a number of years. This has been the experience for many years. 
What the Government intended to do was to utilise funds, of which we are short, to take over companies. There are all sorts of ways in which the Australian Government could have encouraged the private investors and companies. It could have given them some guidelines as to what its policy was to be on overseas investment. If the Government had set out such guidelines I am quite sure that the companies would have fitted in with them. There are lots of enterprises, particularly in our resources field, in which at this stage we have to have a large percentage of overseas investment because we cannot raise the money locally through individual investment. To use public funds in a growing country such as Australia to any large extent deprives some other sector of finances. 
I am stating that the AIDC, operating as it is now without the support of the National Investment Fund- I am talking of the watered-down Bill concerning the AIDCmeets our requirements. One of the most important provisions in this Bill when compared with the previous Bill is that the AIDC, once an enterprise becomes successful and operative and once we can find Australian equity that will take it over, has to divest itself of that interest. This is what the bank officers, the merchant banks, the chambers of commerce, indeed a whole variety of people, who appeared before the Select Committee were fearful of. Under the previous Bill the AIDC did not have to divest itself of any interests irrespective of what happened. That is the whole idea of public investment in Australian enterprises- that you are there to assist an enterprise to get on its feet, particularly a developmental enterprise, but the moment private money can be secured you sell your shares, get out and start another enterprise. That was the whole concept of the Australian Industry Development Corporation which we introduced. The present Government did not introduce it; we introduce it. The Government tried to turn it into an enterprise. 
All the Government is trying to do is to use it as a vehicle to nationalise all industry in this country. That is why we are concerned. That is why the people who appeared before the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control were concerned. I give credit to the Minister for Overseas Trade because once having heard the evidence and having decided that there were fears in the community, he put in these 28 amendments and brought down this existing Bill. I will not carry on for too long because I know  Senator Keeffe  wants to talk on this Bill and give us some indication of his knowledge about investment and industry in this country. But I shall state why we are not supporting the National Investment Fund. 
-First of all, we do not need it at this stage. It will take years for the Australian Industry Development Corporation to be expanded to the extent the Government requires and as we agree. One does not go and invest everywhere overnight unless one is in a hurry to nationalise Australian industry. But if the Government is going to do this under the basis of the Australian Industry Development Corporation there will be plenty of time. With the resources made available to the AIDC the Government will be able to carry that out. 
It can do the same as it has done before. The Government can go on the overseas market. Now it can go on the local market to secure finance for its scheme. The Government wanted to have the National Investment Fund to back up the AIDC. How is the Government going to raise money there? I am not suggesting that the AIDC should be a great profit making concern. I think that in 1 973-74 it made a profit of 1 % per cent on its capital. If an enterprise like that is making only 1 Vi per cent not many local people will invest in it. So the only way we can get the money is either by providing special consideration to people to invest in it as was envisaged in the National Investment Fund or you acquire those funds compulsorily. This is where I take umbrage at the Government. Once we get into this compulsory field anything could happen, particularly with this Government's record in financial matters and in the business management of the affairs of this nation. We can look at the situation over the last 12 months. What would happen if the Government compulsorily acquired money from insurance companies and other people? 
-Hang on. The Government could compulsorily acquire money from people but do not forget that they lend money to local authorities. Where will local authorities get their money? Where will building societies get their money? It all comes out of this one pool. We have a government which would move in, take over these funds and tell the world: We can invest it a lot better than you can. We will invest it in resources. Never mind what local government associations in the country are doing. They can forget about funds. ' Where will local authorities get money for their bread and butter operations of the day? We can tell all the building societies that they do not build any more houses because the Government wants to get on with the job of developing our resources. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Order!  Senator Brown,  were you reflecting on the Chair? 
The  DEPUTY  PRESIDENT-Well, you see you do not. I call  Senator Maunsell. 
We on this side of the House are very sceptical of the National Investment Fund. Maybe this is one of the reasons that the Senate Committee was not allowed to report. We had to report on the National Investment Fund as well as on the Australian Industry Development Corporation. I believe this opens up a field which is very dangerous for this country. Let us face it, as  Senator Durack  mentioned, we have this great minerals authority which is supposed to take over our resources. If it had been backed by the AIDC and by the NIF as originally envisaged by the Government I doubt whether there would be a place anywhere for any private company or for people in this country to own or operate any of our natural resources. I am always a supporter of private enterprise. I agree that there are limitations on our capital. We are a growing country. We have a terrific area to develop. We need a great deal of capital. We certainly need it from overseas. I agree that this has to be controlled within reason. I believe that this is done through legislation. We do not do this through the back door or through such organisations as the National Investment Fund. I support the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill but I oppose the National Investment Fund Bill. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that a major telephone installation was effected at the Florida Hotel, Terrigal, and in nearby motels and guest houses prior to the recent Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party? What was the cost of the equipment and labour? Did the Australian Labor Party foot the bill? Was the new equipment removed after the Conference? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. How many protests has the Government received from Asian countries over statements reported to have been made by the Prime Minister at Terrigal and recently by the Deputy Prime Minister that the fall of the Thieu Government was the best thing that could happen in South Vietnam? 
Will the Minister name the countries concerned and state the nature of the protests? 
During this debate we have heard some remarkable speeches from the Government side. Naturally, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  had to reply because this matter comes within his portfolio. Since then we heard 2 honourable senators speak who are well renowned for their ideological views. The Opposition is wondering where those of the Labor Party- the members of the old type Labor Party, the right-wingers as we might call them- fit into this debate. 
I know that the Government supporters are not worried about that. That is probably why, in the last Queensland election, the Labor Party won only 1 1 seats out of 84 seats.  Senator Gietzelt  referred to the State of Queensland as being run by peanuts. They must be some peanuts when the Labor Party can win only 1 1 seats out of 84. If there had been a redistribution in Queensland before that election, as the Labor Party wished, and there had been equal numbers representing a cross section of the people, the Labor Party would not have got any seats. It is very interesting to hear the remarks of honourable senators opposite. All that  Senator Gietzelt  and  Senator Keeffe  did was dig up the bones of the past and rehash the past. They ran away from the present and shut their eyes completely to the future. 
I want to address my remarks to the future of Australia and relate it to what is happening in South-East Asia. The situation in South Vietnam today is a strong reminder of the dangerous foreign and defence policies of this Government. These policies have been followed for nearly  2Vi  years. This nation is already isolated geographically. It is being isolated even further by the political attitude of this Government and its attitude to its friends- those friends we would expect to come to our assistance in the case of trouble. Australia is being completely isolated. The amazing point is that while the Government is dragging this nation into a state of isolation it is also running down the defence forces of this country which I understand and assume would be most important if the Government wanted to carry out a policy of this kind. The people of Australia have to learn the facts about the future of this country. This Government is trying to convince the Australian people that there is no threat to the nation for the next 15 years. Honourable senators opposite have all agreed on that. It has been reiterated in the last few days in the other place. Of course, the Government has used this to justify the running down of the defences of Australia. Honourable senators should not forget that defence and foreign policy run hand in hand. We cannot have a policy which says that we will be isolated and that we do not want to have any alliances with other countries but will still maintain the defence of Australia if the defence forces are not built up. Yet, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has stated that the best thing for South Vietnam would be the fall of the Thieu Government. He is also reported to have said that probably the best government for places like Cambodia and Laos would be a communist government. 
The Australian people should be aware of this Government's future policy if other nations in South-East Asia find themselves in the same situation as that in Indo-China today. A fact which is becoming clearer to us every day is that minority groups in certain countries are setting themselves up as liberators- I stress minority groups- and are then calling for outside help. And they are being given outside help not only by neighbouring communist countries but also by the 2 major communist countries, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and China, which are supplying them with arms. One would imagine that if an outside country wanted to help a country it would assist in the development of its resources and would assist in the uplifting of the standard of living of its people. But this is not the case. These countries are helping the South-East Asian countries with trained military manpower and weapons in order to force on other countries their own ideologies and what they believe is in their best interests. This is what has happened throughout South-East Asia. It has happened not only in Indo-China. We see it happening in Cambodia. We see it happening in Laos. It did happen earlier in Indonesia and in Malaysia. 
What is this Government's attitude towards the situation in South Vietnam? The Government has said that it has become an internal conflict; that it is purely a civil war; that it is a matter for South Vietnam and North Vietnam to decide. The Government believes that we should not have anything to do with it. I would like to say to the Australian people that, in the light of what has happened in the past, we can expect these minority groups to operate again in places like Malaysia, Burma, Indonesia and the small island city of Singapore, because they are there now. If outsiders who are armed come in in order to help so-called liberators, this Government- if it is going to be consistent- will adopt the same attitude as it has towards Vietnam. The Government is trying to put to the Australian people that it is purely a local matter. I think the people of Australia have got to discover at some time exactly where this Government stands. Now we have the situation - 
As long as I do not lose you, it will be OK. What has the Government done up to date to put forward its stated policies that it believes that peace should be brought to the world and that there should be goodwill and peace amongst all nations. 
-What has the Government done to foster this philosophy? What has the Government done in the  2lA  years it has been here to try to bring the fighting in Vietnam to a halt? Has the Government done anything to enforce the Paris Agreement? Has it done anything to tell the North Vietnamese to get out of South Vietnam? Has it done anything to tell the U.S.S.R. and China to stop supplying arms to the North Vietnamese? The members of the Australian Labor Party hailed the Paris Agreement as the great saviour of Vietnam. They said that the peace agreement was a wonderful thing. What has the Government done? In this area in which we live, which should be of interest to us, we were recognised as a leader. What has this nation done to see that the Paris Agreement has been carried out? 
Well, where is the leadership? We have not heard anything. We heard on 5 March that the Government sent a few cables but the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  is not prepared to divulge their contents. I will accept the fact that cables between nations can be secret documents. That does not stop the Prime Minister of this country stating exactly where this nation stands in relation to the invasion by North Vietnam. When will he state publicly not only for the Australian public but also for the rest of the world - 
-He did not attack the Soviet Union; he did not mention China. The Australian people would like to know just where this Government stands. Of course it is not prepared to say anything against its new found friends in the communist world. It is quite obvious to us and to the thinking public in this community that those sympathetic to the cause of the USSR and China are the ones who dictate the foreign policy of this Government. There is no question of that, otherwise the Prime Minister would be saying the things that he said in 1956. 1 will not go over them. They have been cited by senators here and by members in the House of Representatives.  His  policy in those days in regard to Vietnam was very different from his policy today when he is being told what line to take. 
The people of this nation want some leadership from this Government as to what our future will be if similar insurgent situations come to places closer to us. We all know what happened in Indonesia not so long ago. That can happen again. Where are the considered statements that that sort of insurgency and outside assistance will not come in to help minorities in Indonesia to overthrow the government there, with whom we have good relations, or to overthrow the government of Malaysia? Where are the statements by any member of this Government that it is prepared to protect the interests of those nations? If honourable senators opposite believe that some governments are not elected democratically, why do they no go to the United Nations to ensure that elections do take place democratically? Must we wait until such time as some communist military force moves in to assist a minority group and then wash our hands of it and say: 'It is only an internal civil war'? A very serious situation is developing in South-East Asia. I believe that most thinking people in this community and most loyal Australians are at this time very concerned about what is happening there. Naturally they look for leadership not to the Opposition or to some State government but to the elected Government of this country. They are not getting that leadership. 
No statements are coming from the Prime Minister down as to the stand this nation will take in future aggression in South-East Asia, the stand of this nation protecting the interests of these countries, and the stand of this nation in condemning the complete violation of the Paris agreement by the North Vietnamese and by the Chinese and the Russians in supplying materiel. I believe the time has come when this Government must stand up and be counted. If it is not prepared to do that, the Australian people will do it. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that the Japanese Government has agreed to resume meat imports? If so, when will the shipments commence, what will be the marketing arrangements in Japan and why has an announcement been delayed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is the money received from persons who have obtained advances under the rural reconstruction scheme returned directly to Consolidated Revenue? If so, will the Minister consider varying this requirement so that the money may be retained by the State agencies for further advances to financially disadvantaged primary producers? Will the Minister ensure that the rural reconstruction agencies have sufficient flexibility to advance money to cattle producers whose ability to repay is prejudiced by the continuing disastrously low prices which are realisable at cattle sales? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Does the Minister agree that additional funds through the Commonwealth Development Bank should be made available to beef producers for carry-on finance in the present depressed conditions in the beef industry? If so, can the Minister inform the Senate as to whether the Government intends to provide the funds and when it will do so? 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the reported refusal by Prince Sihanouk to accept a ceasefire proposal by the Cambodian Government? What does the Government intend to do in order to bring about a ceasefire? With the fall of Phnom Penh, does the Government intend to urge the United Nations to call for a ceasefire to avoid needless slaughter at a time when the war appears to have been won and lost? 
Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm or deny reports from Bangkok that Australian citizens were among foreigners executed by communist forces in Cambodia? Has he requested an immediate check? Will the Minister also give the Senate any information which is in the Government's hands concerning reports of mass atrocities by communists against women and children in South Vietnam? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Will he indicate what the conditions will be for eligibility under the new loans made available for the beef industry? Will they be available to most producers in the form of carry-on finance, rather than as a means of off-setting existing debts or of restocking? If so, will the loans be made direct to the producers through the Development Bank or the State instrumentality? Has the Government received requests for the deferment of income tax assessments that are due, in view of the tight financial situation that exists in this industry? If it has, will the Government give favourable consideration to those requests because, if graziers have to sell stock in order to pay tax, this will only aggravate the depressed conditions by a further lowering of cattle prices as a result of over-supply? 
We have just heard a very interesting speech by the second  speaker  in this debate from the Government side of the chamber. One would have supposed that he would have been supporting the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  who is under attack, but at no stage did he speak to the motion before the Senate. Instead he gave us a great travelogue on the events which have taken place in previous years in the Vietnam conflict. The whole time he defended, wherever it was to be defended, the communist cause. One might just wonder what is the Government's view on the motion that we have before us. We are not discussing now what happened 10 years ago, or 30 years ago for that matter; we are discussing whether the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Foreign Minister of this country misled not only the Australian Parliament and the Australian people but also our friends and allies throughout the world. Such people are important when it comes to matters of foreign policy. 
We heard  Senator Gietzelt  attack  President  Thieu for breaking the Paris agreements. Apparently in the view of  Senator Gietzelt President  Thieu is the only person to break the Paris agreements. He made no mention of the military build-up by the North Vietnamese and the Pro-  visional Revolutionary Government in order to escalate the war. Nor did he make any attack on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or the People's Republic of China for supplying the North Vietnamese with arms, until today the North Vietnamese are regarded as the third biggest military power in the world. Of course, that is not breaking the Paris agreements! At least, according to  Senator Gietzelt  it is not. 
We have to get down to tintacks. It is essential that the way in which we conduct our foreign policies should be clearly understood not only by the people at home but also by people in other parts of the world if our credibility and trust are to be maintained. Because a great number of matters of foreign policy and correspondence between heads of state and governments naturally have to be of a confidential nature, it is essential that the government of the day, in its communications with other nations, at least portrays the point of view that it has put to its own people. One could be excused for believing that this Government was sympathetic to the communist cause in Indo-China. In order to come to that conclusion one had only to listen to the remarks of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  and to other Ministers when referring to the Thieu Government and their support for the North Vietnamese. Had the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs supported those views and expressed them publicly in this country, possibly we would not be in the serious situation in which we find ourselves today. But that has not been the case. The Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have repeatedly made public statements in Parliament, both in general debate and in answers to questions, to the effect that they do not support the line taken by  Dr Cairns,  but that they support a neutralist stance as far as the Vietnamese conflict is concerned. 
That is the situation that pertained up until a few weeks ago when  Mr Peacock  and other members of the Opposition made a fact finding tour of Vietnam and South East Asia. When they returned  Mr Peacock  made the statement that he believed that cables that were sent to Hanoi and to Saigon were substantially different. The Prime Minister in the other place, backed up by his Foreign Minister here, insisted that there was very little difference, if any, between the cables. He said that there was certainly no difference in substance between the cable sent to the North and the one sent to the South. Then a Melbourne newspaper printed the text of the cables. In order to clear up the whole matter repeated requests had been made not only in this chamber but also in the other House that the cables either be tabled or at least be given to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  for his perusal. Of course, those requests were not granted. The Government probably would have got away with it except for the fact that a Melbourne newspaper happened to print the details of those cables. 
We have got the letters, too. The honourable senator can read the letters. There is a substantial difference in the letters. But it was the cables that  Mr Peacock  queried; it was the cables that the Prime Minister said were substantially the same. It has nothing to do with the letters. The honourable senator can read the letters, but that is not the argument. The Prime Minister said that the cables, not the letters, were substantially the same. When these cables were released it became obvious not only that there was a bias towards North Vietnam but also that misleading statements were made in regard to the breaking of the Paris agreements. It was quite obvious that the Government was making an apology to the North Vietnamese. The cable sent to the Ambassador in North Vietnam quite obviously was one of apology for the aggression that had been made by the North Vietnamese and the Provisional Revolutionary Government over South Vietnam. I was amused by  Senator Gietzelt  's attack on the Thieu Government for breaking the Paris agreements. He did not mention the North Vietnamese. Who was overrun? Was Hanoi overrun? Were the North Vietnamese overrun, or were the South Vietnamese overrun? Who were the aggressors? Who were the people who built up the military might? Who built up the capability to destroy the other? Did the South Vietnamese build up the capability to destroy the North Vietnamese? Sure, the South Vietnamese had to go along to some extent in building up their capability in order to look after themselves, otherwise they would have been overrun long before they were. 
It is quite obvious from these cables that there is a definite bias by the Australian Government towards the North Vietnamese and the communist cause. It is quite obvious that the Government, through the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has misled the Parliament, the Australian people and our allies and friends throughout the world. We have to think now of the future. If there is further conflict in South-East Asia will the Australian people be able to trust this Government to look after Australia's interest? What will be the attitude of this Government, on behalf of the Australian people, if there is further communist aggression in areas closer to our shores? If this episode concerning the revealing of the cables sent to Vietnam is to be taken into account, what will be the attitude of our friends and allies overseas towards this Government if there is aggression closer to our shores? I believe that this is a very grave situation. Foreign policy and the security of a nation are matters of the utmost importance. It is also of the utmost importance that those responsible for dealing with our security and our foreign policy should be consistent not only in portraying their policies and attitudes to the people but also in saying publicly what they are saying secretly to other nations. The publishing of the contents of these cables so that the people could see what was in them indicates there is no doubt that in relation to this whole episode there was a distinct misleading of this Parliament by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When this matter was being aired both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that there was no difference in the cables. 
-They said that there was very little difference; there was no substantial difference. They said that the cables were substantially the same, if  Senator Georges  prefers it put that way. 
Once one reads the cables one sees that there is a great amount of difference. I believe that the Australian people cannot afford to be misled in this way in such a delicate area as foreign affairs and the security of the nation. For that reason I support fully the motion that is before the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. As the Prime Minister has reported to the nation promptly on his return from his latest overseas trip on what he regards as the problems of the world, when can it be expected that he will report to the nation on how the Government proposes to deal with record inflation and record unemployment, which are real problems concerning the people of this nation? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. Is he aware that the car industry predicts retail price increases of at least $500 per unit this year for economic reasons alone? Is this a soundly based forecast? If so, does the industry face a crisis of last year's dimensions, with a sharp downturn in sales and probable retrenchment of thousands of workers? Will the Government reduce sales tax as it did in the last crisis? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, this is another measure designed to facilitate the implementation of the basic policy of the Australian Labor Party, which is the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. 
-Senator Georges will listen to it. Whenever a contentious issue comes before the Parliament Government supporters hastily assure us that nothing is further from their minds than the nationalisation of industries or the Government unduly interfering in people's affairs, particularly the affairs of our State governments. I can recall the introduction of the first Bill which was designed to expand the operations of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. The aim of the legislation was to take over the large companies in Australia under the guise that this would save the nation from these great foreign companies and of course protect Australian equity. That Bill was backed up by the National Investment Fund Bill. If honourable senators can recall the provisions of the National Investment Fund Bill when it came before the Parliament they will know that the Bill contained the power to confiscate up to 30 per cent, if necessary, of the funds of the insurance industry. 
Confiscate is the word that I used on the previous occasion, and I use it now.  Senator Georges  would prefer to use the terms 'compulsorily acquire'. But that is a fact. Then recently there was introduced the Bill to set up the Australian Government Insurance Corporation.  Senator Wheeldon  has informed us at various times that this will be only a small company, that it will have only $lm, or less, to start off, and that it will provide only a little competition here and there. He has stated that we have to look after the area of natural disasters. Everyone knows that the moment the Australian Government Insurance Corporation is set up it will become one of the biggest organisations in Australia in promoting the Government's policy of the socialisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. I remind honourable senators opposite that that is the No. 1 plank in their platform and policy. 
-The State governments do not have a policy for the nationalisation of the means of production, distribution and exchange. 
-That is not the policy of Liberal-National Country Party State governments, anyway. It might be the policy of Labor State governments. The field of insurance is a very important area of finance. If the Government sets up the Australian Government Insurance Corporation it will be only a matter of time before the Government takes over the insurance industry in Australia. Of course, that will enable the Government to plunder the funds that are invested in the insurance industry. 
I do not know whether  Senator Georges  is on the list of speakers in this debate, but if he is not we will give him time to speak. We also know that from time to time assaults have been made on the operations of State governments and on local government. This has all happened since 1972. 1 know that doctors and other professional people- even lawyers- appreciate that attacks have been made on them. We know what will happen to doctors when Medibank is introduced. Those who are engaged in the private enterprise system- 
At the moment I am talking about the doctors. We know what will happen to the patients. We know what will happen to the people under Medibank, under national insurance or under any other proposal of this Government. The primary producers in particular know what it is like under this Government. They are the real patients. They require a little bit of treatment which it will be difficult to administer when we get back into government within 1 8 months. Let there be no doubt that we on this side of the chamber stand for the preservation of the free enterprise system. Let there be no doubt that honourable senators opposite stand for the destruction of the free enterprise system. I think that we have to be honest about this. Honourable senators opposite believe in a socialist philosophy; we do not. We believe in the free enterprise philosophy. It is of no use Government supporters every now and again saying: 'We have no intention of nationalising industries in this country'.  Dr Cairns,  when he was Minister for Overseas Trade, was saying: 'Of course, we want to preserve the free enterprise system in this country, but we do have this philosophy of socialism and it is going to take time to implement it'. If one really examines every measure that comes before this chamber, and certainly if one takes all the measures together, one sees the pattern of bringing about a socialist state. That is why I scrutinise any measure that comes before this chamber, and there are many other people who hold the same view. If we look at the legislation before us we find that it gives enormous powers to this Government. For that reason alone I am prepared to support the proposition advanced by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that we should put off consideration of this matter until next August because we all want to have a good look at it. 
We need to do so. We need to look at all the legislation that the Government brings before this chamber. I can recall the former Leader of the Government in the Senate introducing a measure into this chamber. He objected strongly when we put off consideration of the measure for a time. But 3 months later he introduced 120 amendments of his own. That showed that the legislation had been hastily drafted. If we look at the legislation before us we see that the Government, by bypassing section 92 of the Constitution, could gain control not only of industry but also of trade within the States and, for that matter, of a great deal of the business world, particularly transport. That would go halfway towards implementing the No. 1 plank of the Government's platform and policy, which is the socialisation of the means of distribution, production and exchange. 
The next time  Senator McLaren  speaks he can tell us what is the Government's policy. He can tell the Australian people what is the Government's platform. It is the socialisation "of the means of production, distribution and exchange. We would like to hear  Senator McLaren  state that policy, and the public would like to hear it, too, because every time the Government introduces legislation into this chamber it sweeps that policy under the carpet. 
-The Government says: 'No, we are not going to nationalise insurance in this country. We are just setting up a little bit of a company which is going to compete . . .'- 
-A little bit of competition, yes. That is why I am concerned about this Bill. I agree that possibly there is a need to set up the Inter-State Commission. 
I said that possibly there is a need to set up the Inter-State Commission, as an advisory body, in an atmosphere of complete co-operation between the States and the Federal Government. Has this Government ever consulted the States to see whether they think this Interstate Commission is worth while, or asked the State governments to submit suggestions? Of course it has not. This legislation has been rushed through the House of Representatives in ari effort to promote the Government's policy of nationalisation of industry and its other socialist policies. The Government is hoping that this Bill will be rushed through here and that the public at large, particularly those who are affected, will not know what it is all about. There are a lot of people engaged in interstate transport and trade who could be affected by it. 
I believe that the States have a right to study the legislation and to come back to us and say: There are certain aspects of this legislation to which we are totally opposed and there are certain aspects which we think are okay. However, we think that other matters ought to be introduced'. They have a right in respect of the setting up of any commission such as this to put their point of view, as do those people in the community who are vitally concerned. As I said before, people who are concerned with interstate transport and trade are affected. For that reason I cannot see any argument which could be put forward by this Government to show why this Bill should not be held up for some time.  Senator Wriedt  who preceded me in this debate said that he did not mind if it was held up. He hoped it would go through now, but he would not mind if it was held up until August. He hoped that eventually it would become law. We might agree with that, but it would depend on the final form of the Bill. I would hope that it would not be a Bill that gives so much centralised power and control to the Government but one which is acceptable to the States and generally to the people of Australia, particularly those engaged in the free enterprise system. 
Another reason why I believe all dangerous legislation being introduced by this Government should be held over is that the people of Australia should have an opportunity to see for themselves exactly what this Government is up to and what they can expect in the future. Too much legislation has been rushed through here of which the public has not been aware until it has been too late. For those reasons I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a fact that the Government is considering not to proceed with the setting up of the proposed overseas quarantine station on Cocos Islands? Is it also a fact that the Prime Minister intervened after the Public Works Committee had inspected the site and recommended the proposal? In view of the great need to upgrade the herds in northern Australia, not only with stud cattle but with semen, will the Minister advise when a quarantine station will be commenced? If it is to be delayed, why and for how long? 
We have just heard another remarkable contribution from the new member from Western Australia. It is amazing that we should be talking about redistribution in Queensland and have a Western Australian speak, who would not have a clue about Queensland and who demonstrated that in his speech, except that he has been to Longreach. I have checked on his visit and I do not think that anyone there was very enthused about it. 
Let us return to the real issues. We know why  Senator Walsh  has vented all that spleen today. Normally it is because he could not get anywhere with the National Country Party, he has always had a chip on the shoulder because the National Country Party would not accept him over there. Undoubtedly the real reason today is that, along with many other Labor Party members, particularly those associated with the rural industry, he has received a whole flood of telegrams over the debacle in relation to the wool industry. No doubt he is trying to take it out somewhere else, and the National Country Party is the one that comes in for it. Let us forget about  Senator Walsh,  because his contribution is not even worth mentioning, and get down to the reason why we are opposing the redistribution in Queensland and why the Opposition parties are opposing redistribution in all States. 
First, there is no need for a redistribution because we will have a census next year and, irrespective of what is done now, we will have to do something about it next year when we know what the shift in population is from one area to another. Therefore, there is no need for this redistribution. The only reason for it is if the Government could see an opportunity to rig the boundaries before the next election and so ensure that it could maintain office for at least another 3 years. That is probably the main reason. 
The second reason why I oppose this redistribution is that I am completely opposed to the principle of taking representation away from the remoter areas, despite what members of the Government might say in their great support for the one vote one value concept which of course they do not practice at any stage. I am opposed to that principle because eventually the complete say in politics will be concentrated in the big cities of Sydney and Melbourne. If we take this concept of one vote one value right down to the grass roots we will find that because Sydney and Melbourne and their environs will have more than half the population of Australia they will have more than half the representatives in Parliament. 
If the Labor Party carries on with its view of getting rid of State governments and getting rid of this chamber Sydney and Melbourne will dominate politics in the whole of Australia. That is what honourable senators opposite are trying to do. 
People who live in country areas will appreciate that when a big city has a lot of representatives, whatever is done in the interests of any part of it benefits the whole city, and that about 20 people fight for one cause. But in the rural remoter areas and the provincial cities what might be good for one area is not particularly good for another. Therefore the people in those areas must have representatives to make sure that their view is put. It has always been a process of democracy that minority groups have a say. We could get to the stage where minority groups have no say at all. We could reach a stage where 20 per cent of the population living in a certain area are supposed to have 20 per cent of the say but they have no say at all. This is what happens unfortunately. It is one of the failures of the democratic system that the majority- more than 50 per cent- has the complete say. 
The third reason that I am completely opposed to the creation of big seats in remote rural areas of Queensland is that although we have a set up today which is probably not as good as a lot of us would like, at least there are 3 main big seats covering those remoter areas. The electorate of Leichhardt covers the Top End, Kennedy covers the centre and Maranoa covers the southern end. At least there is some community of interest in all those areas. Leichhardt is concentrated on Cairns and most of the people of the Cape York peninsula and the Gulf country use Cairns as their main city. All the lines of communication are with Cairns. In Kennedy there is the northern railway line to Mount Isa and the central railway line from Rockhampton to Longreach. There is a community of interest there. Although the member for Kennedy, Bob Katter, is able to look after those areas, communications between them other than road communications, is very difficult. There is very little air, rail or bus communication between the northern line and the southern line, but there is communication. 
This is the way people operate. Communications are established when people are prepared to travel and where there is a community of interest. Mount Isa people travel into Townsville. They do not bother going to 
Rockhampton. Longreach people also prefer to go to Rockhampton rather than Townsville to do their business. But this great new seat of Flynn will not only take in all that northern line but also will go down the southern line out to Charleville and Dirrambandi. There is no community of interest whatsoever between those areas. How a member could move from one area to another is beyond me. 
We have heard  Senator Walsh  speak about Kalgoorlie. We all know that the big seat of Kalgoorlie has only 2 or 3 centres of population which really matter. But in the seats of Kennedy and Maranoa there are areas of population of up to 1000 people every 70 miles. It is almost impossible for a member to travel from one end of those seats to another and see all those people dotted in between. Those people have as much right to representation as everyone else. If we are to concentrate everyone in the city and to say that what is good for Brisbane is good for Queensland, which seems to be the attitude of the Government, let us all go to Brisbane because it will not be long before there is another State outside Brisbane and probably another country as well. 
-This is not rubbish, because the people in remote areas and minority groups must retain a voice. Every other country appreciates that. I certainly will support the move of the Opposition to reject this proposed distribution in Queensland. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Has the Government made a decision to abolish margarine quotas? If so, will the Government reconsider the decision in view of the fact that the Federal Government may be acting against what are the several interests of the States as represented at the Australian Agricultural Council? 
I ask the Minister representing the Acting Treasurer: Has the Cabinet or Caucus decided whether pay as you earn income tax will revert to the old rate after 30 June? If the present cuts are not carried into the second half of the year, will wage earners on $ 1 50 a week pay an extra $6 income tax? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Special Minister of State. Has the Government received the Industries Assistance Commission's report on the question of superphosphate bounty assistance for new land farmers in Western Australia which was due to be completed by the end of May? If not, will the Minister ascertain whether there has been a delay and the reason for it? Will he request that the report be expedited so that it can be presented before Parliament rises? 
-Did the Minister for Agriculture suggest that the Queensland Government should implement a floor price scheme for the beef industry in that State? If so, will he give me details now or before the Senate rises of his plan for such a scheme so that interested people can study it? Does the Minister agree that Queensland presents special difficulties in that beef is a perishable commodity and is costly to store, the main beef growing properties are located in pastoral areas which are subject to prolonged droughts, and a large part of the production has to be exported? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. As another session of Parliament is about to end, I ask the Minister whether he has anything to add to his recent statements about the progress of the Toose Committee report on repatriation. 
I indicate on behalf of the National Country Party that we also oppose this Bill for the reasons given by  Senator Cotton.  We oppose it as being yet another socialistic measure to control private enterprise and interfere in the free enterprise system. Certainly there is a need to update and improve the present government purchasing system for the purposes of government requirements. There is possibly a need for some improvement in our assistance to private industry, but only in an advisory capacity. I cannot see any need at this stage to set up a great bureaucracy that is going to interfere with the normal market place, with the free enterprise system that we have enjoyed in this country. I cannot see that there is any possible need for that. All the Commission would do is centralise the bureaucracy that is trying to interfere between the purchaser and the supplier of goods. 
As I see it, the Commission is not going to effect any great efficiency or any cost savings. In fact, the opposite could be the case. Let us face it, we have private industries which have operated competitively in all areas. That is how they survive. They have had to be efficient to survive. In most cases, they must have organised a pretty elaborate buying system, an efficient buying system, otherwise they would not be in business. To think that someone who is unproved in the business community can direct others on what they should purchase and on how they should purchase is contrary to all my concepts. I believe there is a need to improve purchasing within the departments. I also believe that the Department of Overseas Trade could be strengthened to assist export industries and manufacturers who are importing raw materials and goods to simplify the matter, if necessary by bulk purchasing a lot of things. Is this proposed commission to determine what goods are to be purchased without any prior trial? After all, each individual company and enterprise in private industry decides on its own what it will purchase, what manufactured goods it needs and what raw materials it needs for its manufacturing processes. If it purchases the wrong material or makes a mistake in that direction it suffers accordingly in the market place. 
What amazes me is that although the various departments- I think the Department of Defence was mentioned- must have their own experts to decide on their requirements, the departments will still need those experts if this commission is established. I could not imagine the personnel of this proposed great bureaucracy being able to determine what the Army and the Navy require better than the Army personnel and the Navy personnel could determine. One would still need the experts in a particular field to advise. If we go through the clauses of this Bill we realise the implications of the Bill. It is only another instrument in the socialisation of this nation. One can imagine that if the $4,000m loan deal had been negotiated and  Mr Connor  had been able, as he calls it, to buy back some of the farm- I see it as a mortgage on some of our national assets to the Arabs- we would have seen public enterprises all over this country in competition with our private industry and, as  Senator Cotton  pointed out, not subject to customs duty. 
Quite frankly I cannot see at this stage the necessity for this proposal. As  Senator Cotton  said, we could not amend this Bill because then there would not be any Bill at all. One could go through one clause after another and find items that are completely contrary to our philosophy. Therefore, I believe all that we as an Opposition can do is to throw out the Bill and to hope that at some stage the Government will come back with a proposition for improving purchasing arrangements within departments and, if necessary, setting up an advisory body for private industry. 1 will not go into all the details. I know that other speakers have special areas of concern. I just say on behalf of our Party that this is another socialistic measure to interfere with and control private industry. For that reason alone I will not support it. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Bishop)  adjourned. 

 Sitting suspended from 5.44 to 8 p.m. 

Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware that co-operatives set up by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in the Torres Strait Islands, together with some Island councils, have purchased large quantities of road making equipment and building materials ordered through a firm of engineering consultants? Is the Minister aware that, although most of these goods were shipped from Cairns in early March, payment for some has not been made and a few have been paid for by worthless cheques? Is the Minister also aware that the Queensland Government Island Industries Board is holding worthless cheques amounting to many thousands of dollars which have been cashed by Island workers engaged in projects on these Islands? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether the Department approved the purchases and the projects? If so, when will a decision be made as to which body pays for what goods, and when will funds be made available so that Island workers and north Queensland firms can be paid? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the proximity of Timor to northern Australia, its distance from Darwin being only one-third of the distance from Darwin to Cairns, what is the attitude of the Government to the present civil war in Timor? Has any consultation taken place between the Australian Government and the Indonesian Government on the future of the island and will the Australian Government provide military aid if requested to do so? 
-This Bill that we have before the Senate does make radical changes in our defence structure. Although a great deal of what is contained in the Bill has been implemented already by the Government, 1 support the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  that we should refer this matter to a committee. 
-Because this Bill has two objectives. The first is the move towards the integration of the three arms of the defence forces. Secondly, it gives greater power to the civilian component of the Department of Defence and to its Minister. Will that be good or bad? Will it achieve the objectives that this proposal expects it to achieve? I have grave doubts about that. That is why I shall support the Opposition's proposal. 

 Senator Devitt mentioned the Morshead report. He said that this matter had been going on for a long time. From my knowledge of the Morshead report and of other commitments that the Liberal-Country Party Government was heading towards, I doubt very much whether it ever envisaged vesting the power proposed to be vested in the Public Service in relation to the defence structure or the power that the Minister is to exercise over the defence chiefs. It is necessary that the government of the day, as the custodian of the people's money and the people's interests, decide the amount that should be given to a defence structure and decide what the requirements of the defence forces should be at any given time. But having done that and having made that decision in consultation with the experts in the Department of Defence, particularly the senior Service personnel, I believe that it should then leave it to the experienced personnel to decide how best the money allocated is to be spent in the interests of our defence. Certainly we have to coordinate the three arms of the defence forces into an efficient fighting force, but in doing so we must not destroy the particular expertise that has been developed by years of training. Anyone who has been in any of the Services will realise that there is a far different set up in the Navy from those in the Air Force or the Army. Therefore the three arms of the Services should have a fair amount of control over their own affairs and not be controlled by someone from outside. The greatest area of concern in this Bill is the demarcation - 

 - Senator Poyser is not even interested in the defence of his own country. Defence comes second to him if not lower than that. Honourable senators on this side of the House regard defence as being of primary importance to this country. We do not recognise the claim that there will be no threat to the security of this country for 1 5 years. We do not accept all of the baloney that has been spoken in this respect by various Ministers. The experts in the Army and the Air Force also do not agree with what has been said in this regard. I turn to the subject of the demarcation between civilian control and control by the armed forces. What is of concern to most of our senior officers today is that they do not know exactly where the civilian control ends. In fact if one has a look through this Bill one can see where some sections of the civilian component of the Department of Defence can even tell the Services how they should operate or give them instructions as to how they should operate in the field of battle. That, to me, is just absurd. No wonder there is so much disquiet amongst the senior officers of our defence forces. Nothing can have a worse effect on a defence structure than for the confidence and morale of the fighting forces to be lowered, but that is what is happening today. 

 - Senator Poyser probably is not concerned about that aspect. 
I am referring to my own notes, if  Senator Poyser  wants to know, and I am entitled to refer to my own notes. Those who have any knowledge of what happens in the armed forces in times of war know that everyone must give of his best effort, irrespective of whether the decisions made by those in control are right or wrong, if disaster is to be averted and victory assured. That has certainly been the role - 
-That is right,  Mr President.  I will give them to  Senator Poyser  when I finish, if he likes. I doubt whether he will be able to understand them. 
-Thank you,  Mr President. 
Is that not bad luck,  Senator Keeffe?  As long as I do not lose you. 
-Senator Keeffe is the best thing that the Opposition has going for it in Queensland. The role of the defence forces in peace time is twofold. Firstly, it is to assist the Government of the day in its foreign policy, where the taking of a strong stand is necessary. I do not know whether the present Government is prepared to take a strong stand anywhere. In fact we have witnessed a few instances lately where the Government has not even been prepared to stand up for what this nation requires. Secondly, of course, it is to be the springboard for a future conflict in which we can rapidly mobilise and train our forces and in this way keep those 2 objectives to the fore. A defence force is almost useless - 
-The Special Minister of State can make a speech later. 
-The Special Minister of State has just seen that area for the first time in his life and now appreciates the problems of that area. I will be interested in what he has to say about it in his speech on the Budget. He made statements all over Queensland to the effect that the people of the area are entitled to petrol subsidies and all sorts of things. I will be very interested in whether he defends those people in his speech on the Budget. 
-When honourable senators opposite finish interjecting I will continue,  Mr President. 
Any defence force must have consistency in its directives and objectives from those in command and there must be forward planning with the assurance that any equipment that may be envisaged or planned will be available in the future. Unfortunately one of the things that our defence personnel are very concerned about in this respect is the power to be vested in the Minister because any defence planning could be at the whim of the government of the day and any future plans could be scrapped. The situation could be reached where there was no confidence and no real mobility within the forces. I believe, therefore, that we must take notice of the concern that has been expressed by members of the defence forces. If we are to have an effective defence force the morale of the defence force has to be taken into consideration. The defence force has to have confidence in this leadership. It has to have complete confidence in the way in which it is going. Because there is so much concern being expressed in this area, I believe that the Senate should send this Bill to the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and allow the people on both sides of the argument to give evidence and explain to the Committee exactly what they believe is right or wrong and where they believe improvements can be made. I believe that that is necessary. When that Committee reported back to the Senate we could then make a decision as to what should happen. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. Does the Government know how many Australian nationals are still in Portuguese Timor? Who are they? What circumstances led to their remaining while others were evacuated or escaped? Has either of the two warring factions in East Timor requested humanitarian aid from Australia in exchange for the release of any Australians held in custody? If so, when were the requests made and what was the Government's response? What action is being taken now to secure the safety of Australians on the island? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Is it a matter of concern to the Government that the Bureau of Agricultural Economics estimates that 30 000 specialist beef producers will be unable to carry on because of the severity of the current recession in the industry? Does the estimate indicate that the Government's assistance to the industry, which was described last week by the Minister as being a great deal over the past 18 months, has been paltry when compared with the need? When does the Government expect to receive the reports of the Industries Assistance Commission on the beef industry? What proposals will the Government put forward at the special meeting of the Agricultural Council? 
This is the third Budget that has been produced by this Government. Those of us on this side of the House regarded the first Budget as being the worst for 40 years. It set the pattern for the socialistic pipe-dreams that the Labor Party wants to inflict on this nation. It set the pattern for the destruction of private enterprise and private industry in this country. The second Budget ignored the inflationary effects of the first Budget. As a matter of fact, it underestimated expenditure by some $2,000m. Of course it carried on the process of changing our private enterprise system by diverting money into the public sector. This Budget- the third Budgethas completely ignored the lessons of the other two. It is a complete hotch-potch aimed at appeasing everyone, but does not satisfy anyone at all. The effects of this Budget will mean that inflation will continue to rage and also mean that unemployment will soar. 
We cannot blame the present Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  because, let us face it, within 12 months we have had 3 Treasurers. The first two found the heat in the kitchen a little bit too much and could not stand it. So the Government had to find a fall guy who could stand that heat. The other two almost burned the kitchen down but at least the present one is reducing the heat to some extent. 
Because the nation is on fire with the way this Government is running it. The Government has set out with a determination to divert resources from the private sector to the public sector. It has aimed to centralise power in Canberra and in the Federal Government. I believe that this is a bad Budget for various reasons. It has completely ignored the plight of the primary producer and the rural community in particular; it increases the area of autocracy; it destroys the initiative of the people and it makes us all so dreadfully equal. 
Equal without selfrespect. It does nothing to encourage incentive for people who are prepared to go out on their own and develop their own businesses. There is no incentive in this Budget for the workers to work harder to improve their position in life, because they are no better off at the end of their work period. Their take-home pay is very little more than that of those who do very little, who are not prepared to work. This is typical of any socialist regime. 
Let us take the case of the most insidious affliction that we have in this nation today- inflation. What has this Budget done really to tackle the problems of inflation? We all know the effects of inflation. First, it destroys the security and stability of private businesses. After all, Australia has been a free enterprise nation throughout its history. We are still dependent on the private sector for 75 per cent of employment. If you undermine the security and stability of the private sector then you are endangering not only the nation generally- the economic setup of the nation- but also certainly endangering the jobs of the people. Inflation also erodes the savings of the people. We all know the effects that inflation has on those in the community who want to prepare either for their own old age or for the future of their families. Let us face it: Inflation affects the little man more than it does anyone else. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 

Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was batting on behalf of the Opposition in relation to the problem called inflation. I said that it destroys the stability of the private sector- private business- and erodes the savings of the ordinary people who have prepared for the future, not only for their old age but for their families. It puts those wage earners- those taxpayers- who are able to show a profit commensurate with the inflationary situation into a higher tax range. It has been a wonder to us that the Government has not been prepared to tackle the problem of inflation but the reason is now quite obvious. The Government has a vested interest in inflation. The vested interest is that inflation unsettles the private enterprise system; it unsettles private business. It enables a government, without lifting a finger, without even suggesting that it is raising taxes, to raise taxes. The Government just collects the increased revenue. That extra money comes in because people are in a higher tax bracket. It enables the Government to carry out its program. It is quite obvious that the Government is not interested in the savings of the ordinary people and the effect that inflation has on their savings, because the Government wants everyone in this country to be dependent on it, to be dependent on big brother. 
-Of course he did. I will have a little to say about that later. We have heard a lot during the debate, and by Government speakers since the Budget was introduced, that considerable tax benefits will be given to the people of this nation as a result of the new rebate system. 
Yes, I have studied it. The only thing that one really has to study is the figures for this year and the figures for last year. The comparison shows that receipts by the Government from pay as you earn taxation from wage earners and salary earners will increase by 43 per cent this year. That is a fact. The Government cannot say that it has given tax relief. The situation is a very interesting one. The Government will get 43 per cent more. The wage earners have demanded and have received, as I think it was said this morning, a 28 per cent increase in wages. By the time they pay their taxes their net income will buy them less. That is the important thing. It is not whether the net income might be a little higher than it was last year. It will buy them less this year than it did last year. 

 - Senator Poyser does not know the cost structure. He has not been buying anything this year or he would know the prices of goods. He would certainly know the interest rates if he was one of those unfortunate people wanting to buy a house or something else on credit. The tax receipts this year will be up something like 50 per cent. Once again it is getting at the little people. Not only is the net income of the little person going backwards - 
-The average weekly wage earner, the middle income group. Not only will the net income that he takes home this coming year buy less than it did last year but also the Government will be receiving an extra 50 per cent made up mainly by increased pay as you earn tax receipts. The Government has also increased the price of beer and the price of cigarettes. 
It is all very well for people on the other side to talk. The majority of beer drinkers in this country would be in the lower-middle and lower income groups. It is the working man's drink. Most of them do not go for wine.  Senator McAuliffe  would be able to tell us what happens at his hotel. Beer is the working man 's drink. The Government has hit directly at the working man. Not only has he gone into a higher tax bracket so that the Government is raking in more tax from him but the Government has also indirectly taxed him through cigarettes and beer. What about petrol? Whom does an increase in the price of petrol affect most, other than private industry which is dependent upon it? Again the working man is the one who suffers most. What about the increased postal charges? Business people can arrange for communications by some other method or can pass on the costs. The effect is inflationary but business people say: OK, that goes on'. The working person cannot pass it on. If he wants to post a letter he must pay 18c. If a housewife wants to telephone somebody next door she must pay 9c instead of 6c. So the people who are really feeling the effects of this Budget are the working people. 

 - Senator Bonner mentioned the pensioners. It is all very well for the Government to say that it is raising pensions and that it has done more for the pensioners than the previous Government did. If anything, pensioners are worse off now than they were before. The Government talks about the pension as a percentage of the average weekly earnings. It may be a higher percentage, but the indirect taxes which the Government has placed on the pensioners more than eats up the increase. In fact, it has reduced the ability of the pensioners to operate. The thing that interests me is a table in one of the Budget papers, National Accounting Estimates of Receipts and Outlays of Australian Government Authorities. Table 1 in that document is very revealing. It breaks down the receipts by government from all sources. It lists receipts from taxation. The table starts at 1955-56 and goes through to the projected receipts for this year. In 1955-56 the income taxes on companies and the income taxes on persons other than PA YE taxpayers- that is, the persons who are usually referred to as the self-employed, the farmers, small businessmen and so on- were $ 1,389m. The income taxes from PA YE were $1,1 60m. The income taxes from the first 2 sources were a little bit ahead of the income taxes from the PAYE. Eventually they evened up. During our administration, from 1955-56 until 1971-72, they evened up. In 1971-72 the income taxes from PAYE were $2,889m. The income taxes on companies and on persons other than PAYE taxpayers were $2,415m. 
-No. Honourable senators opposite never understand this fact: Under our Government the workers of this nation were getting an increasing share of the productivity of the nation. One can always relate tax receipts to profits or taxable income, and this is what I am trying to do. We were moving gradually to a position where tax receipts from companies and private individuals were greater than tax receipts from pay-as-you-earn wage and salary earners. But what has happened since 1971-72? 
In 1973-74 tax receipts from the private sector I will classify companies, small business people and people who pay provisional tax as the private sector- amounted to between $3,200m and $3,300m, and tax receipts from pay-as-you-earn wage and salary earners amounted to $4,238m. In 1974-75 tax receipts from the private sector amounted to a little more than $3,000m and tax receipts from payasyouearn wage and salary earners amounted to $6,000m. Under this Budget tax receipts from the private sector will amount to about $3,000m, which is a stationary figure, and tax receipts from pay-as-you-earn wage and salary earners will amount to $8,683m. This is hitting directly at the profitability of private industry. It explains exactly what this Government set out to do when it came into office in 1 972, that is, to transfer the assets and the interests of this nation from the private sector to the public sector. We do not have enough details to know whether all the money that has been collected in taxation has gone into actual public spending or to know the proportion for which the growth of the Public Service has been responsible. But one thing is obvious, and that is that in this growing country, in which inflation is rampant, the figure for tax receipts from the private sector has been almost stationary, which means that the figure for profitability in the private sector has been almost stationary. If we take into account the effect of inflation in Australia, it means that the profits of the private sector have been going down and down. 
People wonder why there is massive unemployment in Australia today. The private sector employs 70 per cent to 75 per cent of the Australian work force. If honourable senators opposite wonder why we support the proposition put up by  Mr Fraser,  it is because it is a business proposition. If the Government were to provide $ 1,000m as an incentive to private industry it would find within two or three years that this incentive not only would put private industry back on its feet so that it could expand, develop, produce and provide employment- incidentally, the Government would get back from private industry what it paid as an incentive by way of increased taxation- but also would do away with the current losses, as I call them, or the unproductive expenses of this Government. When there is massive unemployment the government has to hand out unemployment benefits, and there is nothing productive about that. Once the private sector, which employs 70 per cent to 75 per cent of the Australian work force, gets back on its feet it will be able to absorb the unemployed. But, of course, this Government will do nothing for the private sector because its philosophy is never to help the private sector. 
Everybody must realise that in this country we are getting into a situation where we are dependent completely on big brother. If private industry collapses- it is on the verge of collapsingwhat will happen to the 70 per cent to 75 per cent of the Australian work force which is employed in the private sector? Will the Government take on those people and make them public servants, or will it introduce grandiose Regional Employment Development schemes under which these people wander around the country doing really unproductive work, using picks and shovels when local councils have machines that are capable of doing the job properly? Or will the Government look after the private sector so that it can get on with the job of developing this nation? 
I turn now to the situation which faces some of our main industries. I will say a little today about our coal industry. The Government has put a tax on the export of coal. To my knowledge, this is the first time that there has been a tax on exports. Of course, the Government uses the argument: These great mining ventures are showing great profits. We should get a cut out of them. ' What is the Government actually doing? Is it telling the Japanese: 'You are paying too much for our coal; therefore we have to get a rake off'? That is what the Government could be telling them. Or is the Government telling the Japanese: 'We are going to get a rake off and you will have to pay more if the companies are to be viable'? There is very little profitability in steaming coal. Under our Government we had a record of trading relations that was second to none in the world. For a country of our size, with 13 million or 14 million people, we ranked about twelfth or thirteenth in the world as a trading nation. We are dependent on trade. This country has been built up because of our ability to trade. This Government is raking off all the profitability of the steaming coal industry. 
The coking coal industry is more productive and more viable at the moment. What the Government has done to the coking coal industry is to take away the money which the industry would have used for expansion. Let us face it: At the moment, with depressed meat prices and depressed wool prices, we need an export industry that can stop this erosion of our overseas balances, and the coal industry is an industry which can do this. In Queensland we have unlimited coal reserves with which to expand the industry. It was  Mr Connor  who returned to Australia and said: 'We are going to have an expanded coal output from here on'. What has the Government done? All it has done is to take away from the people in the coal industry who are competent to do the job the money that is needed to expand the industry. Approximately $ 1,000m will be needed to meet the requirements for the infrastructure of the coking coal industry that this 
Government has laid down for future exports of coal. 
When we look at the rural sector we see a really serious situation. 
-The honourable senator has not been out in the country lately. In his trip to Normanton he must have been walking around in the dark. Rural industry is really in trouble. If  Senator Keeffe  regards himself as a Queenslander he must be concerned about the problems facing the beef industry in Queensland, because that is where the majority of producers who are completely dependent on beef are to be found. They cannot diversify. People on the Cape York Peninsula, in the Gulf country, in western Queensland and in the Northern Territory- in fact, in the whole of northern Australia- are completely dependent on beef. They are faced with high transport costs. This Government has done very little to help the beef industry during this time of crisis. Employees in these vast areas have been put off.  Senator Keeffe  must have seen that. 
If the honourable senator would listen he might hear something. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture. Has the Government any firm proposals to place before the special meeting of the Agricultural Council in respect of the beef industry or have any proposals come from the States? Is the Government prepared to act on any such proposals in view of the urgency of the situation or is it intended to wait for the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the beef industry? 

 - Mr Deputy President, I rise to inform the 
Senate that the National Country Party of Australia will support these 5 Bills.  Senator Greenwood  has traversed the events leading up to this historic occasion, and I do not propose to go over that area. I should like to make a few points. There is no doubt that because of the size of Papua New Guinea and its geographical situation in relation to Australia, it is of great importance to us. There is no doubt that the new nation of Papua New Guinea will have great problems.  Mr Somare  has shown that he is a very capable leader, but in a nation that has 500 different tribes and different dialects - 
Well, seven hundred, it is quite obvious that there will be real problems in maintaing unity within that country. I believe that even after 16 September when independence is granted to Papua New Guinea, Australia will still have a part to play- maybe in an advisory role- to assist Papua New Guinea to be able to continue and prosper as a new nation. I believe also that Australia has a role to play on the financial side in assisting the new nation of Papua New Guinea to attain its aspirations. I believe that anything that we may do in Papua New Guinea will be a very good investment for the future. It would be a tragedy if a nation with doubtful intentions towards peaceful coexistence in South-East Asia- I refer particularly to some of the communist regimes to the northwere to make Papua New Guinea financially dependent on it. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech said: 
It should never be forgotten that in making our own former colony independent, we as Australians enhance our own independence. Australia was never truly free until Papua New Guinea became truly free. 
I am one who would hate to see the situation in which Papua New Guinea became financially or otherwise dependent on some other nation that may threaten that particular independence. That is why I believe that whatever government is in power in Canberra, it has a responsibility to ensure that the new nation of Papua New Guinea does not become dependent on some other power. It is our responsibility, in the main, to ensure that Papua New Guinea is assisted in every possible way. Of course, north Queensland, which is the area from which I come, has a particular interest in this regard because parts of the Queensland territory extend within a few hundred yards of the Papua New Guinea mainland. Our own Queensland people, the Torres Strait Islanders, have their future, as they put it, with Queensland. We have a responsibility to see that their future is assured. With those few words I, on behalf of the National Country Party, have much pleasure in supporting these 5 Bills. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State. In view of the claims by the Minister for Agriculture that the Industries Assistance Commission's report on superphosphate was not at hand when the Budget was drawn up, I ask: When was the report received by the Minister? When was it considered by the interdepartmental committee? Was any attempt made to include in Budget discussions the IAC recommendation for restoration of the bounty? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. How long are existing stocks of fuel oil and petrol expected to last? What is the current position in the oil industry dispute, and what will be the attitude of the Government in the event of severe shortages of petrol and fuel oil for industry? 
Will the Minister for Agriculture identify the Industries Assistance Commission reports on rural matters which are still to be received by the Government? When are they expected to come to hand? Is each report being considered separately or is the Government delaying decisions until all the reports are received? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Agriculture. Does the Minister agree that there is no guarantee that cattle prices will remain at the present level despite recent increases? Does he also agree that only a few producers have been able to take advantage of them and that any flooding of the market would cause a downturn? As most producers are facing serious financial difficulties, will the Minister ensure that the report of the Industries Assistance Commission that was presented yesterday will be considered by the Government as a matter of urgency? 
I rise to indicate to the Senate that the National Country Party will support the Liberal Party of Australia in rejecting these electoral redistribution Bills. I will not go into the details of the matter. After all, this is the third time that these Bills have been before the Senate in one form or another. I think that we have covered most of the areas in the debate. But I want to refer briefly to the redistribution in Queensland and in particular to my objection to 2 main areas of the legislation. First of all, I object to the amalgamation of the 2 big electorates of Kennedy and Maranoa into the one enormous electorate of Flynn. I appreciate that they are probably not the 2 biggest electorates in area in Australia. We have also the electorates of Kalgoorlie and Darling. But there is a difference in this situation because in western Queensland fairly large communities are spead throughout the area. 
Everyone who has visited that State knows that the spheres of influence of the different areas run from the coast westward. Therefore, for example, the city of Mount Isa and all the areas along that northern railway line have their influence in the city of Townsville. The people in this area conduct all their business trading in Townsville. All the communications run that way. Those people have nothing or very little in common with people in the central areas or southern inland areas of the State. If there is to be a redistribution of boundaries in Queensland I feel that community of interest and the interest of various areas should be of paramount importance if we are to obtain the proper representation in a Federal Parliament. 
The more we look at this situation which this enormous electorate of Flynn would face, the more impossible we can see it would become for the member who represents it, whoever is unfortunate enough to be its representative. Distance for a start will make it almost impossible for him even if he does have unlimited opportunities to use charter aircraft. The time spent in the air alone would take up a considerable amount of the time that he should be spending in the electorate. But that is not the only problem. The different spheres of influence would also be a problem. The northern area has nothing in common with the southern area. All the industrieseven the primary industries- are different. It would be almost impossible for such a member to reconcile the interests of one area with those of another and come up with a logical solution for his whole electorate. We must protest on behalf of the people in the remote areas of that State at such a redistribution. We hope that nothing of this nature will occur again. 
I would also like to object to the departure from what has been traditional in this country in that in remote areas there have been fewer voters than in city electorates because of the vast areas to be covered. Also, if we really want to decentralise our population and develop our resources we should give reasonable representation to those people in the far-flung areas so that they can at least see that they have some sort of representation in the parliaments of our country. But what we see in this redistribution is that future population trends will be given prominence over distance and so forth. We find that country electorates covering vast areas are to be loaded with a greater number of voters than the electorates in the metropolitan areas. If we are to do anything towards halting the drift from the country to the cities, if we are to do anything towards developing this nation on a balanced scale, we must ensure that country people do not lose their representation. After all, if we have a concentrated situation in which a number of members represents a city, they all act on behalf of that city. Anything that is done that may benefit one electorate usually will benefit the lot. They all stand to gain out of anything that is done there. But in the vast country electorates it will be found that if only one section of an electorate benefits from Government action, large sections of the electorate may not gain but may even be disadvantaged as a result of such action. We have to see that these vast areas are properly represented. 
Of course, I know that the argument of the Australian Labor Party is that it believes in the so-called democratic principle of one vote one value. If that principle of one vote one value is to be applied, apparently only that is taken into consideration and we forget about the distance, communications, community of interest and so forth, all for the one objective of achieving one vote one value. One can appreciate that if this is the Labor Party's policy, and if that is what its members believe in, that is probably what they should implement. But, of course, it is only something that they preach; it is not what they practise. As every member of the Australian Labor Party will tell you, it is such a democratic party that not only are its decisions made by Cabinet but also they have to be authorised and agreed to by the Caucus. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  pointed out only recently to the Federal Executive of the ALP, everything that has been done in this Parliament has been Labor Party policy, policy that has been determined by the Federal Conference of the Party. But where is the one vote one value principle in the Federal Conference of the Labor Party? Because New South Wales has 10 times the population of Tasmania, does anyone suggest that there should be 10 representatives from New South Wales on the policy-making body as against one from Tasmania? Of course, the members of the ALP do not practise that principle because they know very well that if ever the Federal Executive of the ALP was made up in accordance with the principle of one vote one value and on a population basis there would be no Federal organisation as we know it today. It would be a New South Wales and Victoria show only. 
The honourable senator knows darned well that no one from Tasmania would be game to get up and say that he believed there should be 10 representatives from New South Wales for every one from Tasmania on the Federal policy-making body. Of course, the reason that the ALP does this is because of the smaller States. It feels that they are entitled to representation. I believe, on the same basis, that those people who live in the remote areas, who have difficulties with communications and standards of living that are not as high as those enjoyed by many of our people in the cities should have the same sort of representation as the Tasmanian ALP delegates have at the Federal Conference of the Labor Party. 
I object to this gradual whittling away of the representation of the rural areas. If we honestly believe that we have to decentralise the population of this nation and develop our resources not only for our own benefit but also in case there are eager eyes outside looking at our underdeveloped lands, we have to be positive and see that the representation of people in these areas is given the fullest recognition. That is all I have to say on the matter. I hope that the whole of the 5 redistribution Bills will be defeated on this, the third time, they have come before the Senate. 
Has the Minister representing the Treasurer seen reports that the  United States of America and Japan have reduced inflation to approximately 8 per cent? In View crf the fact -that the Government has used the argument that' inflation in this country has mainly been imported, I ask: Will the Government investigate the methods used by our main trading partners to halt inflation and import the cure to this country? 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate recall the statement by  Mr Karidis  in the Senate on 22 July, 2 months after  Mr Connor's  authority to raise a loan was revoked, in which he agreed that  Mr Khemlani  might still obtain a loan for the Australian Government? Was the Prime Minister informed by the Leader of the Government in the Senate of the statement? Was a check made as to the substance of the statement? If not, why not? 
-Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate support the belated acceptance by the Prime Minister that the Senate is acting within its rights under the Constitution in delaying Supply in order to force the House of Representatives to the people? If so, will the Leader of the Government in the Senate state what is undemocratic about the Government's letting the people decide, and why is the Government so terrified to face its masters? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Last week I asked the Minister whether he recalled a statement by  Mr Karidis  when he was before the Senate that  Mr Khemlani  still might be able to raise a loan for the Australian Government. As this was said 2 months after  Mr Connor's  authority to raise the loan had been withdrawn, will the Minister agree that this suggests that  Mr Khemlani  was still negotiating with at least one Australian Minister, which has since been confirmed by  Mr Khemlani  's telexes and  Mr Connor's  sacking? Did the Government or the Prime Minister investigate the matter? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the statement by  Dr Cairns  that  Mr Whitlam  must have known about the negotiations between  Mr Connor  and  Mr Khemlani  after 20 May, and also as  Mr Khemlani  - 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I refer to the reason given by the Treasurer for leaking Budget details to  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, namely, to enable  Mr Hawke  to make a considered comment on Budget night. Did this action give  Mr Hawke,  the most powerful Australian Labor Party figure outside Parliament, a distinct propaganda start over all other economic and political spokesmen in the community? Was it therefore an action which gave the Government considerable political advantage? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Defence. Is it a fact that the Government's decision to abolish the school cadet system was totally contrary to the recommendations of its own inquiry? What were the arguments advanced by the inquiry for retention of the system, and why was it abandoned in the light of the report? Will the Government review its decision? 
I support the Opposition's action in relation to these Bills. Like other members of the Opposition, I certainly consider the course which we have taken in this affair to be the right one. I believe that we have made the right decision. I intend to stick by it. I would like that message to get through to my colleagues on the other side of the Senate, particularly those from Queensland. There is no doubt in the world, despite all the propaganda and all that  Senator Keeffe  might say, that the Senate has the power to act in the way it has acted. Despite all the propaganda and all the insisting by members of the Government Party and others that the Senate did not have that right, there is no doubt that most of them, including the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  have had to admit that the Senate has the right to reject a money Bill. We must consider the position of the Senate as a House of this Parliament. It may be all right for  Senator James  McClelland to say, as I remember him saying yesterday, that the Senate is not a democratically elected House; but it is a democratically elected House. It is here to protect the rights of the smaller States. It may be all right for  Senator James  McClelland who comes from New South Wales, which in conjunction with Victoria has more representatives in the other House than all the other States combined, to speak in the way that he did yesterday. New South Wales and Victoria can dominate the House of Representatives, against the interests of the other, smaller States. That is why we have the 
Senate- to protect the interests of the smaller States. I, for one, coming from Queensland, will ensure that the wishes of the people of Queensland are put in this place. 
It is ridiculous to talk about conventions. Why did the founding fathers- after all, the rights of the States and how the Senate would be constructed were the biggest issues before Federationgive this power to the Senate? What is the use of giving power to the Senate and then saying that it cannot be used, that by tradition we have got to do something else? The Senate was given the right to protect the interests of the smaller States, in the event of the larger States, which dominate the other House, doing something which is not in the interests of the people of the nation as a whole. If that safeguard was not vested in this House we may not have had a federation as we see it today; we may not have had one country. We may have had our 6 States, as they have in Europe or South America. In those places the people of the same ethnic background live in separate countries. 
As far as I a:m concerned, the Opposition in the Senate has considered this matter. Maybe it is an unusual step to take. Maybe it has not happened before, but I submit that never before in the history of this nation has there been a situation of the Opposition having the numbers in this chamber and of the nation's affairs being in control of a government which has lost the confidence of the people. It is for us to judge in the interests of the people whether we should force this Government to go to its masters, the people. 
-The honourable senator can make his speech later, or, if he has already done so, he may like to reconsider the matter. There is no doubt that we have that right. The decision was made in the light of the public outcry against this Government's mismanagement of the affairs of the nation and the public demand that it should be given a say as to whether we continue along the road to socialism, whether private industry is to be driven to the wall, or whether we are going to get back to the prosperity that we had for 20-odd years under previous governments. I believe that we on this side of the chamber have the responsibility to see that the wishes of the people, as transmitted to us, are carried out. I believe that we have to take action when we see the widespread unemployment and inflation which the Government has allowed to continue without making any apparent attempt to curb it. Also we have seen the dealings in relation to the loans affair. Acting Prime Ministers of this country have been sacked. All of these things show that the Government is incapable of running this country. What is the brawl about at the moment? Is it true that we are doing the wrong thing in the Senate, as most people on the Government side are trying to put over, or is the propaganda which is coming from the Government side merely an attempt by it to try to stay in power at any cost? 
I submit that what  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack said here yesterday is probably the essence of the whole thing: This is a fight between the Parliament and the divine right of a Prime Minister who wants to govern at all costs. There was no problem in 1974 when we suggested that the Government of the day should go to the people. In fact, we have heard all the comments that  Mr Whitlam  made on that occasion.  His  advice to the Governor-General at that time suggested that he agreed that if he was refused Supply he was duty bound to go to the people. Of course, now it is a different story. The Prime Minister has been doggedly followed by all members on the Government side. He seems to have whipped them into a state of submission in which they will do anything that he wants them to do. Acting Prime Ministers and  Deputy  Prime Ministers have been sacked at his whim. Two of them were sacked because of their association with the loans affair. 
From an examination of the Loans Council minute one can discover that of the 4 Ministers who contrived that great loan raising operation only one survives. One wonders just exactly what this great loan for $2,000m- we have heard it raised to $4,000m and I have heard mention of $8,000m and $9,000m-was all about. That minute was initiated a few days after the anniversary of Pearl Harbour when the Labor Party was slaughtered in Queensland at a State election. Naturally being terrified not only of the polls but also the judgment on this Government by the people of Queensland, I believe that the Government decided that its time looked like being up or, as  Senator Chaney  said yesterday, its chips were up. The Government wanted to get any money at any cost to obviate the situation which exists today. I wonder what would be the situation today had it raised this sum of $8,000m for temporary purposes on 20-year terms. I wonder what would be the situation if the Government had that money available or invested somewhere. It may have been able to obviate the money problems that it has at the moment or the one that it will have from 30 November until next April and so obviate the constitutional situation and stay in government at all costs. 
We have heard a lot of discussion also about the monetary situation. People have been threatened that they will not get paid. Servicemen, public servants and all sorts of organisations which are due money and which should have received the money appropriated by us last April have been threatened. They should have received that money, but they are not getting it, and we are getting the blame. What has happened to this Government? What is it hiding? It was given an appropriation earlier in the year which was meant to see it through until 30 November. It appropriated something like 49.3 per cent more than it received last year under Appropriation Bill (No. 1) and 110 per cent more under Appropriation Bill (No. 2). Surely that should have given the Government sufficient money to last it not only until 30 November but probably a bit longer. I do not know whether it has run out of money early or whether it has spent it all. I know the manner in which it has been squandering money all over the place. We know also that the check which was carried out the other day revealed that 30 per cent of those receiving the unemployment benefit were not entitled to it. So we do not know where the money is being wasted, but we do know that that is one area in which it has been wasted. 
I am not saying who is in the racket; they should not be in the racket. That is the area in which the money is being wasted. So why all the threats? Is it a fact that the Government has overspent or the departments have overspent and mismanaged the affairs of the nation? Is the Government trying to hide that fact, or does it have the money to keep it going until 30 November? That is what we would like to know. Why is there all this shilly-shallying about the Government not being able to provide in a certain area money which was due before 30 November, even though it agreed to do so? These are the questions we would like answered. 
The honourable senator knows what happened on 7 December last year; he is well aware of that. If the system of one vote one value was operating at that election the Labor Party would not have one member in the Queensland Parliament. Anyway, let me return to the reasons why we believe that we should continue with our present attitude in relation to this matter. As far as I am concerned, we have a Prime Minister who is determined to stay in office. He could not give a damn what happens to the nation. He has done nothing about inflation and unemployment. What has he done about the private sector which employs 75 per cent of the people of this nation? The Government only has to boost the private sector, give it confidence and allow it to operate in order to solve many of its unemployment problems. But, of course, it does not do that. What has the Government done to the rural sector? Costs have accelerated to such an extent in the country towns, particularly in my own State of Queensland- I have no doubt that the same situation applies in other country towns- that the people are finding it darned difficult to live. The industries in those towns depend on world markets and receive their incomes from a world market situation, but they are faced with a local cost situation that they cannot surmount. Of course, some industries are in the position where they are not making great profits. In fact, most industries are in this position; except perhaps the wheat industry, but even the wheat industry is getting itself into the situation where it could cost itself out of the world markets. The people who are suffering most as a result of the attitude of this Government towards the rural sector are the people who live in country towns because their cost of living is increasing enormously and the industries which support them are not viable enough to provide sufficient work. 
One has to look only at what the removal of the petroleum subsidy has done in my State of Queensland, anyway, and at the price of petrol in the western areas of the State. Increased telephone and postal charges have placed a terrific burden on the people in that area. Oil prices have increased. Everything is added to the cost of transport, which increases considerably the cost of goods. I should like  Senator Georges  to go to that area in the central west of Queensland and see the difference in the cost of living there now compared with what it was 12 months ago. 

 - Senator Georges should go and look and see what has happened in that area in 12 months. The people in that area have tried to survive. They are getting to the position where their standard of living is being considerably reduced. The working people in that area have most of their assets tied up in their homes. They cannot sell those homes even for the price that they may have paid for them 10 or 15 years ago. With today's inflation, these people canno t get back what it cost them to build their homes. There is just no market for their homes. Nobody wants to stay in that area. Many people are leaving. I believe that this is one of the tragedies. People who have lived in this area and have put all their money into their homes have had to go elsewhere to get jobs and they cannot sell their homes. They have to go and put a deposit on new homes or rent homes in areas where job opportunities exist. I believe that I would be doing the wrong thing in this place if I did not vote to defer Supply until such time as this Government is prepared to go to the people. Therefore, I support the stand that has been taken by the Opposition. 
I ask the Leader of the Government: Has the Prime Minister come around to your view, as reported in the media the week before last, that there should be an election for the House of Representatives this year and not next year? If so, and as time is running out to hold such an election, when will the announcement be made? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Will the Minister assure the Senate that benefits under any new proposal for a national compensation scheme will not conflict with existing Repatriation Act benefits to the disadvantage of repatriation pensioners? 
I ask a question of the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that approval had been given to erect several television translator stations to improve viewing reception in areas adjacent to Cairns but that installation had been deferred prior to the change of Government? Will the Minister request his colleague, the Minister for Post and 
Telecommunications, to continue the erection of these translators at the earliest opportunity? 
I ask the Minister for Science: In view of the serious effect that the box jellyfish and other kindred stingers have on the lives of people in northern Australia, not only in the loss of life and the inconvenience caused by the closing of beaches in the summer months but also by the loss of revenue to those engaged in the tourist industry, will the Minister ensure that research into the habits of these stingers is given high priority by the Australian Institute of Marine Science based at Townsville so that control and eradication can be achieved? 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, we are discussing Loan Bills which, as has already been mentioned, have been before this chamber in different forms for some months. Much has been said as to why we, when in Opposition, asked so many questions about what was going on as regards the financial management of this country. I think history has shown that we needed to look into those matters. We only have to recall the loans affair and other methods which the previous Government adopted in order to raise money. 
-We have heard enough about the sacking of the previous Prime Minister on 1 1 November last year. I might as well remind honourable senators opposite of what happened on 1 1 November 1974 regarding the loans affair. That was the period when that very famous Executive Minute was worked out. Under 3 years of Labor management the economy of this nation got into a mess. Of course, these Loan Bills are before us tonight in order to raise money to cover some of the deficit. 
-I have explained that we had to look into the matter because the previous Government did not know how it was managing the affairs of this country. We had to try to find out how the previous Government was arranging the finances of this nation so that we could put it straight. It was obvious that the country was going broke. It was obvious that the previous Government did not know what its deficit would be. It had no idea where the country was heading or what the future of this nation was. It is interesting to look at the financial management of this nation. I suggest that honourable senators opposite look at previous Budget papers, particularly the ones giving details of receipts and expenditure, because therein lie the problems which faced the Labor Government and the reason why this nation ran into such economic disaster. 
Income tax reflects pretty well the income of individuals and the profitability of companies. Under the previous Liberal-Country Party governments, every year there was a gradual increase in the amount of money received by way of income tax. In 1965-66 the amount of tax received from companies totalled $8 18m; and the amount of provisional tax received from taxpayersthat is, the self-employed, the farmers and the small businessmen- totalled $57 lm. So the amount of tax received from the private sector in 1965-66 totalled $ 1,389m. The amount of tax received from indirect taxation- that is, from excise duty, sales tax and so on- totalled $ 1,585m. The amount of tax received from wage earners by way of pay-as-you-earn taxation, totalled S 1, 160m. Rounding off those figures., the amounts received in those categories were $l,400m, $l,600m and $l,200m. In 1966-67, $ 1,399m was paid by the private sector in taxation, $ 1,600m was received through indirect taxation and $i,300m was received as payasyouearn taxation. This pattern continued through until 1972. A greater amount of tax was received from each category each year, in roughly the same proportions as previously, although the amount of money received from pay-as-you-earn taxation gradually increased until it reached a figure which was above that paid by way of company and private sector taxation. That meant that the wage earners of this country were getting a bigger share of the profits. 
In the Budget for 1972-73, which was the last Budget presented prior to the Labor Government coming into office, the private sector provided $2,563m by way of taxation, indirect taxation provided $2,595m and pay-as-you-earn taxation provided $3, 161m. The Estimates for the 1975-76 Budget show that the private sector paid $3,907m by way of taxation, indirect taxation amounted to $4,888m and payasyouearn taxation totalled $8, 683m, which was nearly  2h  times the amount of taxation paid by the private sector. The income of the individual or the profitability of a company is reflected in taxation. Under Liberal-Country Party governments things were going along gradually. The private sector was expanding, it was becoming more profitable and it was paying more taxation each year. In 3 years under the Labor Government the private sector became stagnant. In fact, the amount of taxation received from the private sector started to decrease while the amount of taxation received from pay-as-you-earn taxpayers began to increase. As the private sector employs 70 per cent of the Australian work force, one can understand why there are 400 000 or 500 000 unemployed and one can understand why there are deficits. Whereas the private sector should have been able to provide $8,600m in taxation, it provided only $3, 900m in 1975-76. That is why we have to print money and do other things to get another $4,000m so that we can provide the same services as have been provided in the past. 
After all, governments collect money in order to put it into areas, such as education, that we believe are necessary. We have to look after the people who are putting money into the bucket in the first place, before we start to throw money around. The very people whom the Labor 
Government neglected were the people who contributed the funds which were used to provide all the amenities and the necessities of life. We saw this nation develop under successive LiberalCountry Party governments from 1949 to 1972. We saw an improvement in the standard of living. We had a standard of living which was as high as that of any other nation. After 3 years we find ourselves in the position where we are almost bankrupt. We are not looking after the people who provide the wealth, the productivity of the nation, the job opportunities and so on. The Government of which I am a supporter has set out to look after these people. It is all very well to talk about the money that we have taken away from certain sectors of the community. 
-We have not taken any away from the pensioners. Honourable senators opposite mentioned some of the other projects on which we are cutting back. We have to get the private sector moving again so that it can provide funds for all the things which honourable senators opposite want us to provide. We will be able to do that without wrecking the economy. 
It will take time. 
We cannot do these things overnight, and the honourable senator knows that. 
I did not say anything of the sort. There must have been some other people down there in South Australia. I suggest that if honourable senators opposite have any spare time they should read the Khemlani documents. 
Yes, and they are really worth reading. I did not think that any government or any people could indulge in such things as the Labor Government did at that time. After all, Khemlani's diary could not be fictitious. It is a complete diary. No one could write a story like that. He would make a mistake somewhere along the line. One can read of all the methods that the Government used at that stage in order to hide everything, to ensure that its actions would not be brought before the people of this nation through the Parliament.  Senator McLaren  ought to read about this matter of washing the loan. That is a method whereby the interest is paid at the other end. The Labor Government could not find anywhere overseas a reputable bank which would have anything to do with it. Eventually the Labor Government said that there were financial institutions around the world that were prepared to wash the loan and hand out a commission at the other end. The bank that it discovered was the Moscow Navodny Bank and, according to Khemlani 's documents, when he informed  Mr Connor  of this  Mr Connor  said: 'I like the name of the bank anyway'. That is an indication of the way in which the Labor Government operated. Opposition senators are probably wondering now why they were not told anything. Members of the then Opposition asked all those questions because Government supporters were not told anything. They did not know what was going on in relation to the overseas loans. The facts came out only when somebody happened to tip the tin, just as the Iraqi money issue has come out recently, and probably we have not heard the end of that either. 
Opposition senators did not know much about it until they read it in the newspapers. We probably all read it together. As far as I am concerned, Government senators do not really enjoy passing a Bill such as this to borrow money to cover the great deficit that we have. Nevertheless, faced with this situation, we have to go along with it. 
I can understand why Opposition senators are prepared to pass this - 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator McAuliffe)-  Order!  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, I hope you are not reflecting on the manner in which I am conducting the proceedings. I have had plenty of experience and if I feel that the Senate is getting out of order I will bring it back to order from the Chair. I do not need any prompting. I thought that  Senator Maunsell  was doing well. 
-Coming from a fellow Queenslander,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I appreciate that. 
Yes. I can understand why Opposition senators are supporting this measure. They have guilty consciences about it. They know why it is necessary. I do not think that I should waste the time of this chamber any longer and I will support the measure. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations bring to the notice of his colleague the serious situation which is developing in respect of wool sales because of the dispute between the Federated Storemen and Packers Union and the wool stores? In view of the importance of the wool industry to the economy of many country towns and to the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of people, will the Minister see that every effort is made for an early settlement of the dispute? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: In view of the serious situation which has occurred in the wool industry as a result of the long drawn out dispute in the wool stores, and in view of the urgent need to shift wool to the manufacturers, particularly those in Japan, will the Minister stress to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations the urgent need to have the present waterfront dispute resolved as soon as possible or, failing that, to make some provision to shift the pile of wool? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. Has the Minister seen a Press report that there will be a meeting early next week of the parties involved to discuss the Aurukun mining project? Should the meeting, which is between representatives of the Federal and State governments, the Aboriginal community involved and the mission, which is controlled by the Presbyterian Church, reach amicable agreement will the Government ask its representatives to seek an assurance from those concerned that they will support the agreement in the interests of the Aboriginal community concerned and the people of north Queensland, thereby ensuring that this great project will not be torpedoed by publicity seekers, so-called Aboriginal supporters and conservationists who have little knowledge of the area or the interests of north Queenslanders? 
-Has the Minister representing the Prime Minister seen a report in the  Canberra Times  to the effect that the Government of Papua New Guinea wishes to extend its border with Queensland 1 10 kilometres south to within 16 kilometres of Cape York? Has the Minister also noted in that report that the Federal Government has sought a compromise with the Queensland Government on that proposal? Will the Minister seek from the Prime Minister a definite statement of the Government's policy on this matter so that those members of Parliament who are determined to protect the interests of thousands of loyal Queensland citizens and the islands on which they live will know where they stand? 
I join in the debate on the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits (Pension Increases) Bill 1976 to mention a few matters. First of all, I welcome the Bill, although it is long overdue. The Bill is related particularly to those people who retired from the armed Services prior to 1 October 1972 when the new Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits scheme came into operation. Those people, therefore, were at a certain disadvantage compared with those who were fortunate enough to be able to join the new scheme and who may have retired shortly after doing so. They were at a certain disadvantage because, as honourable senators will probably appreciate, those who were still serving in the armed forces on 1 October 1972 were given the opportunity to join the new scheme on a basis that if their contributions during their period of service had exceeded 5.5 per cent of salary they would receive a refund and that if their contributions had not reached 5.5 per cent they would have to pay into the scheme. In most cases a refund was granted. So those people who left the scheme after 1 October 1972 not only got a refund of contributions that they had made over a period of years but also were able to retire on a much better basis than those who retired prior to that date. Therefore, I believe that this Bill does enable those people who are disadvantaged in that way to get some sort of remuneration. Therefore, the legislation is long overdue. I think those people have been waiting for this increase for a number of years, dating back to the time not only when we were in Government previously but also when the Labor Party was in government. 
One matter which I would like to raise concerns those people who retired before 1972 and who believe that a quinquennial investigation should be made into the contributors' fund. They believe that there is a surplus of something like $ 1 lm in the fund and that that money should be distributed to them as it is their entitlement. Let us face it; a contract was drawn up between the contributors and the Government as to what should be the contribution of the serviceman and what the Government's contribution to the fund should be. Every now and again an actuarial investigation would be held to see whether there was a surplus in the fund. Those people who were able to join the new scheme on the basis I mentioned- that is, contributions of 5.5 per cent of salary over the period of service- have no rights in that scheme. They received their handout when they left the old scheme in order to contribute to the new scheme. Since their contributions were not taken into account in joining the new scheme I do not see that they are entitled to any handouts that may be found to be available after an investigation. But those who were discharged prior to 1 October 1972, I believe, have a moral right to any surpluses that may be in the fund to which they contributed. I think there was supposed to be a quinquennial investigation in 1969, but it was put off until 1972 so that it would coincide with the introduction of the new scheme. That is the story I am told. If that is the case, I would just like to know when the results of that investigation are likely to be made known, and whether in fact an investigation has been initiated. I believe that we should do justice to those people who are entitled to some refund. 
-Yes. As  Senator Devitt  will remember, the report of the Joint Select Committee on Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Legislation recommended a new scheme for new recruits. We offered those who were still serving in the armed forces at that time an opportunity to join the new scheme on the basis that I mentioned earlier. But we had no jurisdiction, in the terms of the inquiry that we held, to do anything about those who retired before the implementation of the scheme. However, we did recommend to the Government of the day- of course, that recommendation flows on to succeeding governments- that it should initiate an inquiry to discover any injustices which may have occurred to such people and whether they were in fact entitled to some sort of increase in benefit. 
It should not be forgotten that the old scheme was based on age of retirement. No matter when a person joined the Service, his years of service were calculated only from the age of 2 1 years. In our scheme the number of years of service was calculated from the time of enlistment. So in the case of some people contributions were calculated from 16 years of age when they joined the Navy or 18 years of age when they joined the Army or the Air Force, or whatever might have been their age on joining the Service. In those cases years of service would be taken into account. 
Yes. I mention that to the Government and I hope the Government will note what I have had to say because there are a lot of people who accept the fact that they are not getting as good a pension as those who retired after 1 October 1972. They agree that there was a contract between themselves and the government of the day but they do feel that they have an entitlement to any extra funds which may have accrued. I support the Bill. 
I listened to the speech made by  Senator Gietzelt  who, like most members of the Opposition, believes that if he can put a case for spending a lot of money that is the be-all and the endall of it, irrespective of whether the money is spent responsibly or whether the people who have to provide that money can afford to be taxed to the extent that they are. This is a typical attitude of the Opposition. What effect did the previous Government have upon local government. We saw great spending in all sorts of areas, including local government. I will deal in detail with the operation of the Grants Commission later in my speech. 
The previous Government's spending in nearly all areas resulted in a great burden being placed on the taxpayers of this country, particularly on the private sector, which was affected to such an extent that it went to the wall. There was unemployment all over Australia. Instead of allocating money responsibly to the local government authorities, the previous Government implemented such schemes as the Regional Employment Development scheme, one of the most wasteful schemes introduced by a Government as far as value for money is concerned. I do not think that any honourable senator opposite who has had experience with the RED scheme will say that it was a productive exercise, other than in providing employment. It was a completely irresponsible way in which to spend the taxpayers' money. 
We know that the needs of local government have increased over the years. Back in the horse and buggy days the needs of local government were not so great. Sealed roads, which are expensive, were not required. Outhouses have been replaced by expensive sewerage systems. Water reticulation plants have replaced rainwater tanks. The responsibilities of local government have increased from year to year. The finance required to maintain the standard of living required by Australians has increased also. It is only natural that local government authorities are unable to gain all their revenue through the imposition of rates on their citizens. We all know that the old system of rating the unimproved value of land greatly disadvantaged those in the rural and pastoral areas. I can recall that in the shire in which I lived for many years- the Longreach shire- about  10  per cent of the people provided  92  per cent of the rates. We had situations where property owners were paying about  $4,000  or  $5,000  a year in rates. At that stage, the property owners were operating unprofitable enterprises because of drought and so on. The local doctor in the town, who was employed by the State, was not paying any rates to the local government authority. In comparison with the farmers in the areas the local doctor was receiving a very high income. Therefore the burden of financing local government was not fairly placed. It is only natural that there should be one taxing authority which will even out this burden so that taxpayers generally foot some of the bill for the requirements of local government. 
I should like to turn now to the question of the best way to disburse this money. This is where the Government's attitude differs from the attitude of the Opposition. We believe that the 
States- which are far closer to the local government areas than is the Federal Government- are the best authorities to determine how the money allocated to the States should be allocated amongst the local government authorities. We believe that separate States grants commissions in each State will greatly assist local government authorities. After all, there is a variation of needs between States and there is a variation between the needs of local government. It is not true to say that, as suggested by  Senator Gietzelt,  the distribution would be on a  per capita  basis. There is provision in this Bill and in the Government's policy to ensure that whilst the States may receive  per capita  payments they may receive further payments if a need for them can be shown. Of course, the State grants commissions, when set up, will determine grants not on a  per capita  basis but on a basis of need. They will determine where the money should go. 
When the Labor Government set up the original Grants Commission it did so for the purpose of being a big brother. It wanted to make sure that local government throughout Australia would have to come cap in hand to Canberra. It attempted to bypass the States, therefore, reducing the responsibility of the States. The move towards regional areas was aimed firstly, of course, at undermining local government and, secondly, at undermining the States. The situation would have arisen whereby a great deal of expenditure within a State would have been made by the Federal Government on a regional basis and would have been directed by bureaucrats from Canberra. 
Australia is a vast country. It is not highly populated and is certainly underdeveloped. A great deal of the development that is required, from a public point of view, has to be carried out by the local people. The local people know what is required and they know what their needs are. When the Grants Commission was moving around Queensland many of the representatives of shires who went to the cities found that they had insufficient time to put their case. Those who had prepared an excellent case came away with a lot of money. Those who did not have time to prepare as good a case- although the need was there- came away with very little. There is no question about the fact that not enough time and consideration was given to the needs of these shires. There is little doubt that with the introduction of States grants commissions and with local governments so closely connected with the State Governments, time will be given to ensuring that the needs of local government authorities are met. 
We must remember the previous Government's attitude to local government.  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned that there will be a cut back in money allocated to local government. It is interesting to note, of course, that during the last 2 years of the Labor Government the private sector was hit so badly that the Government lost about $3,000m in tax receipts from the private sector- that is, the company sector and the provisional taxpayers who are mainly farmers. These people are mainly responsible for providing a great part of local government requirements through rating. We believe that to run the country on a businesslike basis, to get everyone back into production, we have to cut taxation if we are going to give incentive to produce to business and individuals. Once that is done we will be in a position to provide schools for local areas and we will be able to provide money to people who require public funds to operate a business. We will have the money available. First, we have to get the business going. The business of this country has to get going if we are going to fill the bucket in order to empty it for the benefit of everyone in Australia. I believe that local government will understand that while the Government is trying to get the economy back on its feet and moving again, it too will have to pull its belt in, like all other sections of the community. 
I now turn to the matter of regionalism. It has been said by both  Senator Douglas  McClelland and  Senator Gietzelt  that it is our policy to get rid of regionalism and that regionalism is the greatest concept that could help develop the nation. There is nothing in this Bill or in our policy which says that we will get rid of regionalism. But we will allow the local authorities in the States concerned to decide how the regions will be worked out. They will not be worked out on an overall basis from a centralist organisation in Canberra. As I said before, once this Government is able to get the economy back on its feet, to get the nation producing again, and to get money into the coffers in order to support all public bodies such as local government authorities, then we will see this country go ahead. I am quite sure that local government, wherever one might find it in Australia, will appreciate the policies that we are expounding. I have no hestitation in supporting the Bill. 
-Has the attention of the Leader of the Government in the Senate been drawn to reports of stoppages on the Mount Isa to Townsville railway line which could lead to a national stoppage because railway workers in Townsville are refusing to load chemicals for the Mary Kathleen uranium mine? In view of the Government 's strict guidelines on uranium mining and also the fact that the Ranger inquiry enables all interested bodies to submit evidence in respect of uranium mining, will the Minister ask the Prime Minister to seek the support of responsible bodies, such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions, to endeavour speedily to resolve this issue so that an industry which is vital to the nation and to the jobs of" thousands of Australians will not be jeopardised by the actions of a few? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee C, together with the  Hansard  record of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the Minister aware that Telecom Australia has in recent weeks sent out officers to seize radio telephone equipment used in outback areas of Queensland? Is the Minister aware further that in many cases these are the only available means of communication in times of sickness, floods, fires and other disasters? Is there any way that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications or the Government can reverse this decision; or is this an example of a statutory commission usings its powers to discriminate against people- in this case people in isolated areas- without the knowledge of Parliament whence it obtains its funds? 
I support the Bills before the Senate which, as  Senator Gietzelt  said, are aimed at maintaining the floor price scheme for wool for a further 12 months and also to continue wool industry levies in order to supplement the market support fund which eventually the growers will take over. It is interesting to note that the levies have raised to date approximately $50m per annum. It is only a matter of time before there will be no government commitment in the fund. This is what the industry has been seeking. We certainly support the industry running its own affairs. Of course, as wool is sold at a profit, so more money will go into the fund and pay for the running costs and the interest involved. I noticed that  Senator Gietzelt  used the usual Labor Party tactic of saying that the Labor Government had done everything for the wool industry and that we had not. It is interesting to note that a former Liberal-National Country Party government introduced legislation for the Australian Wool Corporation which the Australian Labor Party opposed. The Australian Wool Corporation set up a flexible floor price scheme in which it was allowed to borrow money for the purpose of stockpiling wool or to purchase wool - 
-We had a flexible floor price at that stage. It was a procedure being developed at that time. Anyone associated with the wool industry will know that there are difficulties in getting the wool growers to agree. We had the spade work done. The Corporation was being prepared, as honourable senators well know, to undertake this work before the 1972 election. If we had won the 1972 election, the Wool Corporation would have been introduced by our government. The industry agreed to the imposition of a levy, which was the important part of the whole operation. All that can be said is that while the Labor Government did set a fixed floor price, it also imposed a tax of 5 per cent on the wool industry - 
I mentioned that. Besides putting a fixed floor price on the market, all that can be said of the Labor Government's actions in 3 years was that it imposed a tax of 5 per cent on the industry, which I agree the industry eventually agreed to accept. Of course, there are other things which the Labor Government did to the wool industry during the 3 years it was in government. It did nothing about inflation. 
Rampant inflation has been the biggest problem of the wool industry. Any industry that sells 90 per cent or more of its product overseas cannot put up its prices. It has no power to charge more for its products. Obviously, such an industry will be affected if rampant inflation exists in its costs. 
Let me list a few more of the decisions made by the former Labor Government. What did the Labor Government do to the taxation deductions for farm improvements that were necessary to keep the industry going? They were taken away. The petrol price equalisation arrangement was also abolished. Postal charges were increased astronomically, as were telephone charges. Honourable senators know that in remote areas of Australia telephone charges are very costly. Nearly every call to a doctor or to a business house is a trunk line call. These are things that the Labor Government did for the wool industry. There was a proliferation of strikes which meant that a great number of producers were in difficulty in selling or transporting their wool. There is no justification for honourable senators opposite, to say that the former Labor Government did everything for the wool industry and this side of politics did nothing. 
-AU that the Labor Government did was to implement something that we had organised prior to 1972. The honourable senator knows darned well that that is correct. 
Let me return to the requirements of the wool industry and the problems facing that industry. Now that one problem has been resolved, let us deal with the current problems in the industry. I believe that what we must do is see that adequate wool stocks are maintained. It has been said that the Australian Wool Corporation will be able to pay back by next year all of the money it has borrowed from the Government. Whether that is right depends on what happens in the market. This is the estimate. I would hope that the Government would not be requiring that money so early as I think that a "need exists for adequate stocks not only in Australia but also overseas in those countries which purchase our wool. An example of why this action is necessary is the recent storemen and packers strike. Woolgrowers who sold wool in February and who probably had wool in store in December or January still have not received payment, because the wool has not been able to be moved from the storage areas. 
-The honourable senator can have his say later. All I am saying is that we must maintain adequate stocks overseas in order to obviate a situation like that arising. The wool industry is a very sensitive industry. I am speaking now of the manufacturing side, the end result of the production of wool in this country. Problems experienced by the wool industry in the past have related to purchasers being unable to acquire quantities of wool when they need them and also the fluctuating prices which have created big disadvantages among different manufacturers. 
-That is why we introduced the flexible floor price system which is operating today. It is approximately 280c for 2 1 micron wool clean. That means that the price will not drop sharply to 250c. It will come down in stages with the Wool Corporation buying any surplus wool when the demand is slow. In the interests of the industry we not only must have these stockpiles but also must try to maintain prices at a reasonably stable level. 
I turn to other matters that I believe are necessary of consideration by the wool industry and particularly by the Wool Corporation. I say for the benefit of  Senator Cotton  that I hope that records have been kept of all payments made so far by growers. I suggested in the Senate last year when we were talking on the wool legislation that there will come a time when it is no longer necessary for growers to contribute to the fund or to buy from the stockpile. I have always believed that a revolving fund is necessary. This would result in not just one section which has been through hard times, as those presently engaged in wool growing have been, being the only section to pay the levy with those who receive the benefit of this levy later on not contributing to it. With a revolving fund, after 5 years or 6 years those who contributed in the earlier years will receive their money back and those who are coming into industry or who are new to the industry will continue to contribute to the fund by way of levy. I hope that that will be done as I think that such action will be necessary in the future. 
I believe also that every encouragement should be given to research into reducing costs in the industry. This should not only relate to properties and the shearing of wool but should also be concerned with the marketing of wool by the Wool Corporation. Although we are inclined to believe that today prices are very high when compared with the prices prevailing a few years ago, the profitability of woolgrowers throughout Australia has probably never been lower. This is an unfortunate situation which results from costs escalating to such an extent. Most of the industry now finds itself in trouble. Certainly what those in the industry cannot do now but which they were able to do a few years ago is to withstand a recession in the price obtained at wool sales or the effects of droughts which a number of growing areas do experience from time to time. Costs still seem to continue to rise. Woolgrowers do not have the viability or the capital behind them to be able to withstand any big financial problems. 
I hope that the Australian Wool Corporation will take into account and investigate these matters and also push forward as fast as it can with the introduction of modern methods of marketing. We have our objective measurement and sale by sample systems. I believe that in this area alone we could reduce to a large extent costs in the wool industry. Madam Acting  Deputy President,  time is moving on. I say in conclusion that I and members of my Party wholeheartedly support these Bills. 
Is the Minister for Repatriation aware that the policy announced on 20 May 1976 concerning the admission of repatriation patients to non-repatriation hospitals which applies mainly in country areas is causing many problems in its application and has created widespread concern among veterans and veterans' organisations? Will he give urgent consideration to these problems? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Transport inform the Senate of the present situation in the air traffic controllers dispute? When can the public expect to be able to travel by air without the great inconvenience experienced over the last few days? 
I rise to support this Bill. I am pleased to note that the members of the Opposition are also supporting it. In the contributions made so far in this debate from 2 Opposition speakers we have not heard a great deal about this Bill but we have heard a great deal of criticism of the Government's financial policy and other matters. What we need in the community today to overcome the problems created by the previous Government is confidence in the future. We should make sure that knockers in our community- knockers who are trying to prevent the economic  recovery  of this nation- are not supported. Members of the Opposition are joining in with these knockers at every opportunity. 
The financial policy of this Government is to get the private sector going again. We have heard much about unemployment but it is the private sector which employs 75 per cent of the people. Unless we can get the private sector going -after its 3 years of attack by the Labor Government- we are not going to solve the problems of unemployment and we are not going to solve the problems of getting this nation back on its feet. We have to change the attitude of people. We have to ensure that those people who want to work, are willing to work, or who want to improve their lot in life are given the opportunity to do so with just reward. We should get rid of the attitude that we have had for the past 3 years in this country that the Government will look after Australians from the cradle to the grave and the people do not have to worry about their future. Those who did want to get out and work and look after themselves were taxed to the hilt by the previous Government in order to look after those who were not prepared to work. We have to change the attitude of the people and encourage them to produce something in this community. We have the highest rate of inflation in the Western world. We have the highest number of industrial disputes in the Western world and the lowest productivity. We have got to reverse that situation. If we can reverse it, this nation will begin to solve its problems and the unemployment rate, about which  Senator Georges  spoke, will be reduced. 
We are not starving anyone. We have got to get things moving. Honourable senators opposite know what happened when their Government was in office. It tried to solve the unemployment problem by taxing people, by having deficits and by throwing money around. What has happened as a result of the previous Government's action? The unemployment rate went further and further ahead because the previous Government attacked the very people who provide employment- the private sector, the private businesses in this country. We have to make sure that the attitude of the people is changed, that those who are prepared to work are given the incentive to do so and that the business people who are prepared to expand, develop and produce also are given the incentive to do so.  Senator Georges  adopted the typical Opposition approach to this matter when he referred to the country areas of western Queensland. He said that the unemployment rate is very high there. 
-That is right. Does  Senator Georges  know why it is right? It is because the whole of that community is dependent on income from exports- the export of wool and beef, but mainly wool. I am referring particularly to the areas of Barcaldine and Longreach. By not doing anything about inflation during the 3 years the previous Government was in office and by allowing it to run rampant the previous Government immediately took away the profitability of those industries. It did so by taking away the taxation incentives for improvements, by doing away with the equalisation of petrol prices and by taking a number of other measures. The previous Government got the industry in my electorate into such a situation that it could not afford to employ anyone. It did not have the opportunity to employ anyone and that is why we have unemployment in that area. We would not have such a high rate of unemployment if those areas had not been subjected to this rampant inflation and if they had been able to benefit from the tax incentives that had been operating for many years. 
Most of those people in those areas- I do not think  Senator Gietzelt  has been out there- are not employed on stations. Fencing contractors, shearing contractors and dam sinking contractors comprise the sort of people who carry out improvement work on properties. The moment the previous Government took away the tax incentives from the areas to which I have referred it immediately cut off the supply of contract work. Of course, that is why unemployment is so high. This is the way the Opposition approached the question. It never examined the attitude of the people. The Opposition has to realise that it is the people who produce their own standard of living. Some people in our community have the attitude that if the Government provides the standard of living all they have to do is to sit down and the tree will rain apples all over the place; the Government will hand them out and everyone will be well off. That is not the way the system operates. Every person within the community has to produce something in order to contribute to the standard of living of the whole community. If we can get away from strikes and reach a situation where people are prepared to produce more, by raising the productivity of industry, costs will come down, we will be able to sustain higher wages and the nation as a whole will benefit. 
We have to ensure that from here on the people outside this chamber get the message, but not the message that has been handed out by the Opposition which knocks everything that we do and tries to pull down everything that we do. This attitude, no doubt, is supported by the left wing element of the trade union movement which, of course, has a vested interest in disruption in this country because when it tries to inflict its philosophy and attitudes on the Australian people, then of course we will be subject to disruptions in industry and unemployment. All these problems have to exist for such an element to succeed. Of course, the left wing element of the trade union movement is deliberately fomenting industrial trouble in order to create that situation. 
I support the financial policies of this Government. I believe that it is only a matter of time before industry will get on its feet. It has been given an opportunity in the Budget to get out and work and to give the lead to others to produce more. I also believe that when the results of tax indexation and the family allowances, which amount to about $ 1,000m, begin to show in the community we will see a rise in consumer spending which is necessary to gear up the productivity of the nation and to gear up the industries so that they can employ more people. I think it is only a matter of time before we solve our problems. It can be done only if everyone in the community is prepared to fight in the interests of this nation. 
I believe that if  Senator Colston  adheres to his statement that he is prepared to repeat outside this House what he said last night we can let the law take care of this matter. Earlier he quoted something which he said last night. I wish to quote one thing which he said last night which he did not quote earlier. It is quoted at page 997 of yesterday 's  Hansard.  He said: 
I urge the media not to be silent on this issue. If  Mr BjelkePetersen  happened to be a Labor politician- heaven forbidhe would be hounded mercilessly by the media and forced to hand over to someone who exhibited integrity in his leadership. The fact that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  is a member of the National Party does not absolve him from the searching scrutiny of the media.  His  party membership and his position certainly give him no licence to make personal profit from contracts let by his own Government. 
I hope  Senator Colston  will make that statement outside the House. 
I hope he makes it outside the House. Today  Senator Sheil  tabled the letter from  Mr Hugh  Hamilton. 
The greatest communist hater in this country would be one Joh Bjelke-Petersen. One could not imagine a top communist in Queensland supporting Joh Bjelke-Petersen. No one does more than Joh Bjelke-Petersen to get rid of the communists in that State. Even this top communist knows that the scurrilous statements which have been made are untrue. He believes that to save his own hide and to save his own integrity he must admit that what Joh Bjelke-Petersen did was within the law, within the bounds of integrity and so forth. 
This argument about Joh Bjelke-Petersen's holdings in companies, his shareholdings and what-have-you has been public knowledge for years. We have fought 2 elections on this matter. The Labor Party has used it to try to smear him and to try to get the public on side. What was the result? Of 82 members in the Quensland House today, there are 1 1 Labor Party members. 
Yes, a cricket team. 
If the Electoral Act in Queensland was changed and there was no gerrymander, and members were elected on the basis of one vote one value, the Labor Party would have only 5 members. This is a very interesting exercise. I suggest to the Queensland members that there be a redistribution. I do not care how it is done. If it is done on the basis of one vote one value, the Labor Party will not get more than 5 members. It can talk this way as long as it likes. It has only 1 1 members because it has no support in the State. 
It has only one, and he scraped in only by the skin of his teeth. If we had organised our campaign a little better he would not be there. The Labor Party is so far down the drain that it realises that most Queenslanders are behind Joh Bjelke-Petersen. The votes show it. The Labor Party would love to be able to get rid of this one man who has destroyed it in that State. I hope that  Senator Colston  will make good his offer of today and will go out into the public place and make those statements, particularly the one which I quoted. 
Has the Minister for Industry and Commerce seen a report from the Department of Transport revealing the downturn in passenger traffic of the domestic airlines in recent months? As landing charges play an important part in the cost of air fares and in view of the economic difficulties faced by the tourist industry, will the Minister consult with his ministerial colleagues to see whether some temporary relief can be given in respect of landing charges in order to stimulate productivity in these 2 industries, bearing in mind that a reduction in the number of nights will mean a reduction in revenue? 
-! bring up the report from Estimates Committee B.  together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I support this Bill, which is a genuine attempt by the Government to promote in a practical way the federalist policies of the Government. I believe that each tier of government has the right to have access to taxation pools and to shoulder the responsibility for spending those funds effectively in the interests of the people. We who believe in the free enterprise system feel that in the first place the people should provide for themselves out of their own funds, by their own enterprise and their own energy. But we realise of course that many community services are better provided on a community basis. That is why wherever possible we try to encourage local governments to look after those areas if they are capable of doing so. We believe that the States have the responsibility to handle those matters which are more closely related to the people. We maintain that the Commonwealth should look after only the issues of national importance. Unfortunately, members of the Australian Labor Party believe in exactly the opposite. They believe that a large proportion of the earnings of the people should be taken from them by way of taxation, by big brother, and that the centralist Government in Canberra should decide where projects are to be developed, how they will be developed, and what money will be spent on them- not the people who are most concerned, the people who live in those particular areas. We believe that wherever possible the people who are responsible for spending money should also be responsible for raising it. 
We run into great difficulties in that regard as far as local government is concerned. Throughout most of the history of this nation local government has gained most of its finances through rating landholders. The rates are calculated on the unimproved value of the land in this country. Some countries rate land on the improved value. There are all sorts of systems of rating. I suppose many years ago the value of land was closely related to incomes, but that is not the case these days. As anyone who is associated with some of the farming areas and particularly the remote areas of the various States will know, those engaged in the cattle industry and in the woolgrowing industry might appear to have large holdings, valuable properties, but often their individual incomes are less than those of many of the people who hold what we might call blue collar jobs. Therefore that system of raising funds for local government has its disadvantages. Of course, money has then to be found in some other way. It has been suggested that local government authorities should become part of the taxing authority for the people who live in the area of their jurisdiction. Of" course, the difficulty there is that some areas might be fortunate enough to be rich or profitable at a certain time, and others might be in a poor condition. I think we must look at the situation from the point of view of need rather than of the ability to pay. 
I get back to the point of how we are to give local government authorities a portion of the taxation pool and at the same time give them the responsibility of raising the money. This is the difficulty we have always found with local governments. I know that the Labor Party found another way but, of course, there is another side to that story. 
-We know the Labor Party's great record over the last 3 years of handing out money to local government. Unfortunately many of the people in local government thought that the bonanza had come. What they did not appreciate, of course- the Labor Party appreciated it- was that if you do not have the responsibility for raising the money you do not have the responsibility forks administration. We knew what was going to happen. It was the intention of the Labor Party to set up these great regional councils which would incorporate three, four or maybe more local authority areas. As the bureaucracy in Canberra was handing out the money, Canberra and not the local councils was going to decide what projects would be funded and the amount of money that would be spent on them. Everyone knows what would have been the eventual outcome. 
It is not rubbish.  Senator Georges  knows that is is Labor Party policy to get rid not only of this chamber but also State and local governments. The Labor Party wants one central bureaucracy in Canberra. 
-Of course that is Labor Party policy. It always has been Labor Party policy but many local governments could never understand that. The Labor Party relieved them of the responsibility of raising funds in their own areas by giving them handouts. They thought it was a good idea. This made the local councils appear to be great fellows among their own people. They were popular because they were not increasing rate charges. Of course, the outcome- most of them were aware of it- would be that eventually responsibility would be taken away from them and that local government in Australia would not be as we now know it; we would have regions controlled completely by the bureaucracy in Canberra. 

 - Senator Georges can hide his head in shame because he knows darned well that is Labor Party policy. I am only telling the truth. It is Labor Party policy to get rid of the Senate, the State governments and local government. It is of no use for Labor Party supporters to talk in this chamber about what they have done for local government. It is our job to ensure that local government authorities are looked after. Of course, the State of Queensland and the other States are concerned about what might happen under our proposal. They are fearful because of what happened under the Labor Administration when the State governments were completely bypassed by the Federal Government when making handouts to local governments. The eventual plan was to take over the local governments. It was a takeover by the back door. The States do not want that sort of thing to happen under the present Government. I can assure them that that will not happen. The policy of both the Liberal Party and the National Country Party has always been that the States must decide where money will be spent in their area. As the parent bodies of local government, the States should have some say about how money should be distributed to local government. With all due respect to what has been said in this debate tonight, there is no question that the Queensland Government has a good relationship with local government. 
There is a good relationship, a partnership, between the State government and local government and it has existed for 40 or 50 years. Only when the Whitlam Government took office and implemented its policy of by-passing the States did we get into trouble. It is very interesting to hear of all the schemes introduced during the term of office of the Labor Party and that subsequently we scrapped.  Senator Sibraa  mentioned the Australian Assistance Plan and Medibank. It is amazing to hear Labor supporters talking about federalism tonight. What they want to do is to take money from the taxpayers of this country to finance grandiose schemes such as the Regional Employment 
Development scheme, the Australian Assistance Plan and so on. They want simply to throw the people's money around. They wonder why we got into the mess in which we find ourselves today. Labor took from the Australian people a great deal of money and just wasted it, threw it away. If the Labor Government had allowed the people to retain more of their own money the country would have been a darned sight more productive and in the long run we would have had a great deal more funds available not only for the Federal Government but also for State and local governments. 
I am pleased that happens. If  Senator Georges  would come to Queensland a little more often I would fascinate him even more. I want to make quite clear where we stand on this matter. It is interesting to hear Opposition senators say they support this measure. They say that but they have been doing nothing but rubbishing it throughout this debate. I hope that when we vote on the measure we will all be happy in the knowledge that this Advisory Council will be set up. I think it is very necessary that the 3 tiers of government- may I add that we believe in those 3 tiers of governmentshould come together in this Advisory Council and work out amongst themselves how finance can be made available, particularly to local government, in such a way that they have the responsibility of accounting for the money they raise. In that way we believe we can do something about the burden that rates certainly places on ratepayers in many areas, and this applies particularly to the rural areas of Australia. In some of the shires in western Queensland something like 90 per cent of money collected in rates is paid by land holders who represent probably about 10 per cent of the population. In times of low prices and high costs those people individually probably earn less than the other 90 per cent of the population who pay only 5 per cent to 10 per cent of the total amount received in rates. 
We know that something has to be done in that regard. I am quite sure that once this Advisory Council is set up we will have a sensible operation of the 3-tier system of government and that the federalist policies that this Government has promoted will eventually be accepted by everybody. I can understand the States having queries at this time, but I believe that once this Advisory Council gets down to tin tacks and once the States finally realise just what we mean in our federalist policies, all 3 tiers of government in this country will be satisfied and will do the job that we expect them to do. 
Order! The honourable senator's time has expired. 
In the last few weeks we have heard our new senator from Queensland indulge in what might be called Queensland politics. He has brought them into this chamber. I do not know whether Tom Burns, the Leader of the Opposition in Queensland, is a competent person. After listening to our new senator from Queensland one would believe that he is incompetent and that all the arguments that should be brought up in the Queensland Parliament should be brought up in this House. I do not know what happened in Queensland yesterday.  Senator Colston  does not know what happened. In an interview with Tom Burns this morning his opening remarks were: 'I do not know'. But, of course, he proceeded to give his opinion. I suggest that the best thing  Senator Colston  can do- I offer to make my good offices available to him- is to appear before the Bar of the State House in Queensland, give his opinions, look after his friend and tell Tom Burns that he will do the job for him. 
-This is interesting. We have a long program ahead of us, but we have to sit back in this place and listen to things which should be said in the Queensland State Parliament. 
It would be a joke that  Senator Georges  ever regarded this as a States House. 
-Let us get down to the facts. All these matters, such as the one we brought up the other day, would not be picked up. Tom Burns did not pick it up.  Senator Georges  did not pick it up. 
-That bit of interesting information that drifted down the sewer.  Senator Georges  did not fish it out. Even  Senator Keeffe  did not fish it out. After all, he is not averse to throwing a few dead cats into a few backyards. I am not saying anything against  Senator Keeffe.  This is the way  Senator Keeffe  operates, and that is fair enough. The honourable senator knows that he will fish things out, but no one here was prepared to fish those things out. No one in the Queensland State Parliament was prepared to fish out that particular document, but our new senator was prepared to fish it out. All we hear now in this place is State matters being brought up. I hope that we can settle down to the job we are here to do, and that is to look after the interests of Queensland, not to get involved in little personal politics of the State House. If  Senator Colston  is so keen to put his point of view, I will make available my good offices and see that the Premier will listen to him so that he can look after his friend Ray Whitrod- it does not matter who else- or Max Hodges. He is obviously a friend of Max Hodges too. He can look after him. 
-Do we have to argue in this place whether Max Hodges was doing his job? That is a State matter, and it does not worry me what happens. If our friend  Senator Colston  wants to fish all these things out of the sewer, that is fair enough; but I suggest that it is time we discussed the nation's business or went home. 
-Can the Minister for Veterans' Affairs give an assurance that repatriation and other patients in repatriation hospitals will not be neglected because of bans on overtime and patient admissions by the Hospital Employees Federation? 
I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: Has the Minister seen a report of a statement made by  Mr Edward  St John indicating that he was approached by the Labor Government to fill the role of ombudsman but was not approached by the Liberals? In view of the question asked last week by  Senator James  McClelland, is this another example of the breakdown in the socalled open government of the Labor Administration? 
I believe that the Government of the day has a very important decision to make which could affect the interests of all Australians. It is right that there should be public concern over whether we should mine and export uranium. It is our responsibility to inform the public of what is involved, what are the advantages and what may be the disadvantages. A great deal of opposition to the mining and export of uranium has been generated in this country. Some of it, of course, has been well considered, and sincere people with a knowledge of the subject have supported the anti-uranium argument; but I am afraid that many of the arguments that have been put have come from people who have not considered the facts and whose aim is to stop the mining and export of uranium at any cost. 
They fall into 2 categories: First of all, there are the people I call the preservationists. Despite strong argument and all the facts, they are determined that there shall be no progress. They are determined that everything, even a desert in central Australia that is producing nothing, should remain in its natural state. That is the argument of the preservationists. The other main area from which the opposition comes comprises people who have a vested interest in the breakdown of our social and economic standards so that in the future they will be able to foist their type of politics on our society. It is a tragedy that dedicated people - 
-No. I said that there are 2 sources of adverse propaganda. There are 2 types of people who are pouring out unsubstantiated propoganda and who are determined to stop the mining and export of uranium at all costs. That is what I am saying. I am not referring to those who have a genuine interest in and knowledge of the subject. The tragedy is that dedicated and sincere people who form the conservation foundations in this country and elsewhere and who of course play a vital role in the future of our society should have been infiltrated by such people as those I have just mentioned. The infiltrators are using the conservation organisations for political purposes. 
I have been a member of various resources committees of this Senate over the last 5 years. Firstly, there was a select committee on resources, then a committee of another name and now there is a Senate Standing Committee on National Resources. I have been a member of such committees ever since the first committee was set up, which I think was early in 1971. Of course, I have been associated with the mining industry. This matter of uranium mining has been a subject that has cropped up during the whole period. It has been my object, the same as other members of the Committee, to inform myself as much as possible of the arguments for and against in this great debate on whether we should mine and export uranium. I must say that after listening to all the evidence it has not been difficult for me to come to a decision that we should mine uranium and that we should export it, provided that necessary and absolute safeguards that are known today are insisted upon. Another proviso, as  Senator Young  has said and as  Mr Anthony  already has indicated, is that only those countries which are signatories to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty should receive our uranium. It is all right to talk about how dangerous it would be if terrorists got hold of this commodity, but the fact is that almost every country in the world has it already. Most of the developed nations have nuclear power plants. Whether we leave our uranium in the ground or export it will not make much difference, because the terrorists will be able to get hold of the supplies scattered around the world at present. 
There has been a demand for public debate. It is amazing. One would think that this subject has cropped up in just the last few weeks or the last few months. This debate has been going on for about 30 years. It has been going on ever since the first bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. I saw the effects of that bomb only a few weeks after it was dropped. I am well aware of the devastation and tragedy that that bomb caused. But the fact is that nation after nation has considered this matter and nation after nation has made its decision over these 30 years to develop nuclear power for peaceful purposes. Are we to be just the odd people out in this isolated country in the southern Pacific region? Are we to miss out on all the advantages that can accrue from the use of nuclear power? We have to make a decision fairly shortly, because of the requirements of countries using uranium oxide, yellowcake, from about 1982 onwards. With our presently uncommitted supplies we can fill the gap in supply. Unless we are prepared to fill the gap created by new power stations coming into operation between 1982 and 1985, someone else will supply the required uranium oxide. Contracts have to be written now. It takes years for mining operations to reach a stage of production sufficient for export. Operations have to start now so that in 4 years time we will have the infrastructure that will enable us to fulfil the first contracts. 
Look at the economic situation of uranium in this country. Our known reserves at the moment, on present world prices, are worth something like $30,000m. At the rate at which we will be able to mine uranium and at the projected rate to which world requirements will increase, we will be able to supply something like $3,000m of uranium oxide per annum. Our present exports from all mining are worth something like $2,500m. If we compare the projected figure for uranium exports with $800m for wool exports and about $500m for beef exports, we can see their enormous potential for the welfare of this country. Do not forget that we regard ourselves as one of the great trading nations of the world. Our very standard of living has been built up on our ability to trade and our ability to sell goods throughout the world. Although we have a low population, we are about the twelfth biggest trading nation. We depend on trade. So people can understand what Australia can gain from something like $3,000m of exports per annum. 
But of course it is even more important than that. Because of the expense involved and the fine line which separates profitability from loss, most of the capital in a lot of our mining ventures has had to come from overseas. These risk ventures have not been able to attract sufficient Australian capital. But when we come to uranium mining it is a totally different matter. It has been assessed that under present conditions we could mine uranium in Australia at about $6 per lb. When one considers that the world market price at the moment on long-range contracts is something like $30-odd per lb and the spot market price at the present time is something over $40 per lb, the profitability in mining uranium is clear. 
It is interesting to note that over 50 per cent of proven uranium deposits in Australia is Australian owned and a little less than the remaining 50 per cent of the deposits involves at least 75 per cent Australian equity as required. I think only about 5 per cent of the deposits do not meet the Australian equity requirements as laid down by the Government. Uranium mining in Australia is not something that will provide great fortunes for people overseas. This is one venture that Australians will invest in and one has only to look at the stock exchanges to see what the position is. From a national point of view it is absolutely essential, I believe, that we get involved in uranium mining. 
There have been lots of arguments put forward against the mining of uranium. As I said, they have been put up by people who obviously have a vested interest in destroying the economy of this nation. I think it would be interesting to read some of the answers given in reply to these sort of people by Professor Titterton whom I think most Australians regard as probably our top nuclear physicist. 
-He still knows the job. I would just like to quote what he had to say because it is interesting. 
I would just like to quote some of this because it might interest  Senator O'Byrne  in particular who has been most vocal during this debate. Professor Titterton said: 
Uranium mining was carried out in Australia from 1954 to 1971 - 
You had forgotten about that-  successfully and safely. (Ores treated: Rum Jungle 863 000 tonnes, United Uranium 128 000 tonnes - 
This is the amount of ores treated. People say it is that dangerous, but uranium mining was carried on from 1954 to 1971. Professor Titterton continues: 
Mary Kathleen 2 947 000 tonnes . . . Radium Hill and Port Pirie 970 000.) Why should uranium mining be any less safe now than it was then? 
There was not any great hue and cry when all that uranium was mined in those 1 7 years. Professor Titterton went on to say: 
Uranium is being mined on increasing scale in the U.S.A., Canada, South Africa, Niger, France, Gabon, Soviet Union and many other places . . . 
160 nuclear power stations are already operating and, after 2000 power station years of operation, there has not been a single death or injury to the public at large. The U.K., U.S.A., Soviet Union, France, Canada, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, West Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Holland, Pakistan, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland and many others are investing massively in nuclear power. Indeed 180 new nuclear power stations are currently being built and another 1 60 are on order. By the year 2000 near to SO per cent of all electricity generated in the world will be from Nuclear Power Stations. 
The argument against uranium mining is that we should not have anything to do with it. It is being said that although the rest of the world is progressing we should just sit back and let it go by. Professor Titterton goes on to say: 
It is not essential to have nuclear power stations to produce a nuclear weapons capability. All nations have access to uranium ores from the ever growing mining industry or from sea-water. Separation processes can be used to acquire weapons material from these sources. 
And this is correct. So all these arguments and Aunt Sallies that have been put up by a lot of the people today are not put with sincerity for the future of our people. 
I am speaking about these people who have made statements that uranium mining is so dangerous that we should not have anything to do with it, yet we have been mining it in Australia for years. The world has been mining uranium and has been using it. As  Senator Wriedt  says, we should not even be travelling on aircraft because there have been a few aircraft crashes here and there. There was one in the Soviet Union the other day. That should stop the lot of us from getting on the DC9s and the 747s tomorrow. We have to look at this matter from a rational point of view and, as  Senator Young  says, and as most scientists will tell us, there is more danger today from pollution from oil and coal fired power stations than there ever will be from uranium pollution. In fact, the pollution from uranium is one-fifteenth of that from a coal fired power station which produces the same amount of electricity. Surely we can weigh up the facts and make a decision the same as every other country has done. This country has 20 per cent of the world's known uranium deposits. No doubt we have not discovered the lot yet. We are sitting on what is a real golden egg as far as this country is concerned. 
We have 20 per cent of the world's known reserves at the moment and we would probably have a lot more if we were to get out and explore. It is interesting to note that on present day values it will cost something like $ 1,800m to set up the infrastructure for this industry in Australia. Most of that investment will benefit Australian workers. Most of that money will be spent in this country. Therefore I believe there is no question about mining uranium. Sure, we have to inform the public. We have to make sure that the public are satisfied in their own minds that all precautions are being taken and that the mining and exporting of uranium can be safely controlled. The fact that it has such great benefit to this country should also be put to the people so that they can see both sides of the arguments. 
It does help. It would help a lot of workers today if they had a higher standard of living. I know the people on the opposite side think they represent the workers but there are a lot of other people who are more concerned about the workers and their standard of living than apparently you people opposite. 
We might be able to employ some of them if uranium mining gets off the ground and is developed in this country. I now refer to the safety of nuclear power. These people opposing uranium mining do not quote this part of the Fox report. The Fox report referred to 'many wildly exaggerated statements' made about the risks and dangers of nuclear energy production by those opposed to it. It went on: 
Misleading and unfounded propaganda of the antinuclear lobby is continuing to confuse and worry the public and make it difficult for the average citizen to make a wellbased decision. The facts are: Nuclear power has proved to be among the safest industries yet established in the world. For example, official United States figures show that the annual death rate in the coal industry is 1 1 times greater than that in the nuclear industry (including mining), injuries 7 times greater, and man days lost some 10 times greater. Radioactive waste has been handled completely safely over the 20-year history of nuclear power production and plans now in hand for vitrification of waste material are technically sound and feasible and will lead to a continuation of this excellent record as the industry grows. 
Having weighed all the arguments, there is no question in my mind that we should proceed with the development of our mining interests and we should export our uranium yellow cake, provided, of course, that every safety precaution is taken, as I mentioned earlier. 
Will the Leader of the Government bring to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs the concern being expressed in north Queensland about an increasing number of citizens of Papua New Guinea illegally entering that area and staying on? The main reports have come from Townsville, Cairns and Weipa. As it has been claimed that some of these illegal migrants are in receipt of unemployment benefits, will the Government inquire into this matter as soon as possible in order to prevent a situation in which the traffic reaches serious proportions? 
I support generally the provisions of this Bill. It has become necessary for a redistribution before the next election because of the variation that has occurred in the number of voters within the present electorates. There are electorates which are now well over the quota and there are others which are under. However, I am disappointed and have reservations about not returning to the 20 per cent variation. After all, since Federation every redistribution has been carried out on a 20 per cent tolerance. The provision in this legislation for a redistribution every 7 years will avoid a redistribution every time there is an election, although we will find still that very soon after a redistribution another redistribution is required. On the other hand, if representatives are to understand their electorate and really represent their people they should represent the same electorate for some period of time and not have a different electorate to represent every 3 years. 
Turning to my reservations about the abolition of the 20 per cent tolerance, I believe that very large electorates and the people who live in remote areas should be given special consideration. In a democracy the people who suffer most are the minorities and we can reach a situation where they have no say whatsoever. However, there has always been the proposition that in a democracy we cater for minorities. This has happened everywhere else in the world and people who live in remote areas are given special consideration. It is not the members who represent them that I am interested in. Certainly we should give them special, opportunities in respect of things such as travel allowances so that they can get around those electorates and find out what the problems are. 
It is the people themselves with whom we should be concerned. I do not know whether  Senator McLaren  goes into the remote areas of South Australia but he will find that the people who live in remote areas have problems which are not faced by people in the cities. Just recently I was in an area with a small population which did not have television, but I find that when arguments are presented in this place, the media and elsewhere about whether there should be television licence fees or whether the money raised in that way should come out of general revenue instead, the interests of people in remote areas are never considered. They as taxpayers are contributing towards the upkeep of the Australian Broadcasting Commission's television network yet do not receive any of the benefits from it. People in Sydney, Melbourne and other capital dues can have a choice of 4 television stations and can have 4 or 5 television sets in their homes. They can enjoy television. However, the people in remote areas as taxpayers are paying the same amount towards the running of the ABC as do the people in Sydney but do not have any television reception at all. It is representation of remote areas in this type of issue which is needed. Otherwise before long we will not have people in the outback at all. 
To a large extent the standard of living that is enjoyed in this country has been made possible by the overseas income earned by people who operate under adverse conditions. These are people in the wool, meat and mining industriesour export industries- who operate under harsh conditions with few amenities. 
I am talking about people. Honourable senators opposite are the ones who are always talking about sheep. They are great advocates of the one vote one value system, but it is interesting that when it comes to the crunch they do not apply that principle to their Party's operation. I wonder whether  Senator Walsh  would like to go back to Western Australia and say that because New South Wales has 4Vi times the population of Western Australia the Federal Executive of the Labor Party, which is the over-riding body, should have 4V4 times as many delegates from New South Wales as from Western Australia or South Australia. I wonder whether he would go back and advocate that, or suggest that there should be on the Federal Executive 10 times the representation from New South Wales as from Tasmania. He knows very well that if he advocated that one vote one value philosophy within his Party there would be no Labor Party in Western Australia or Tasmania. There would be some other party because the people in those States would know that they did not have a voice in the overall running of the party. We have to make sure that the people in remote Australia have a reasonable voice in the Parliament. 
-Senator Georges should appreciate that when money is expended on the Opera House in Sydney or on a water supply for Brisbane the whole population in that area benefits from it. That can be said by those members from Brisbane and the 30-odd members who live in the Sydney environs, and they have the numbers to ensure an allocation of funds for such purposes. In a democracy you will be all right if you are in the majority but you will not be if you are in the minority. Let us look at the situation of the people in the Kennedy electorate in far western Queensland. Something which would benefit the people in, say, Blackall, would be of no benefit to the people of Mount Isa. Therefore the one member who represents them all has to put forward different propositions in respect of each town to satisfy the whole of his electorate whereas 10 members for Brisbane can put forward one proposition which will satisfy the people in each of those electorates. 
This is about the only nation which does not have loadings for people in remote areas. The figures of voters in Great Britain, Canada, the United States of America and elsewhere show such loadings but in this nation, which is probably the most centralised on earth, we go the opposite way when the principle of loadings should apply more here than in other countries. I hope it will be realised by honourable senators before the next redistribution that the 20 per cent variation is something which is necessary in a nation like ours. 
I am supporting it but I said at the start of my speech that I have reservations about it and am disappointed that the 20 per cent variation has not been adopted, particuarly for the bigger electorates. Do not think I am saying this merely to look after the National Country Party. 
It is interesting to look at the 7 electorates covering more than 200 000 square kilometres and consider their traditional history. For example, the electorate of Kalgoorlie. Has it been a Country Party electorate? And the electorate of Grey, has it been a Country Party electorate? Is the electorate of Wakefield a Country Party electorate? What about Darling? Is that Country Party territory? I have mentioned four of the seven electorates and we do not own even one of them. If one considers the 3 electorates in Queensland, although we happen to own them at the moment - 
-We own them at the moment. They happen to be ours. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Bonner)-  Order! The honourable senator will be kind enough to address his remarks to the Chair and not indulge in bandying comments across the chamber. 
I will do that,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  although I had to reply to the people who were urging me on. What I am saying is that the 3 Country Party seats in Queensland which we presently hold - 
-Of the 3 seats which have Country Party members, if that satisfies  Senator Georges,  who cannot understand the rest or does not appreciate what the rest is, two have been traditional Labor seats. If one considers the history, an average of five out of the seven have been traditional Labor seats. So we are not looking after our own Party, we are looking after the people in remote areas. We are not even worrying about our own members. They will get around and do a job. No matter how large their electorates are, they will still do the job. We believe that people who live in remote areas have a need for specialised representation and, if necessary, for more members. 
-No, they should have more representatives in the House of government, just as in this House the smaller States have equal representation with the larger States. That is my argument. One of these days we will reach a situation where people will not live in the remote areas because they are treated like second class citizens and do not have adequate representation. A lot of people outside the greater metropolitan area of Brisbane, and no doubt  Senator Georges  is aware of this, are so disappointed with the centralisation of government and with their representation both in Queensland and in the federal sphere that a new 
State is being talked about. There is even talk of secession, the idea being that at least we would be able to look after ourselves and not have every problem dragged to the southern areas. As  Senator Georges  would know from his travels around Queensland, that feeling does exist. We have to ensure that the minority of people who live in remote areas and who do not have the numbers to be able to put their case are given special consideration. Otherwise, decentralisation will be just another talking point and will never be implemented. 
It is interesting to note that although reference has been made to the principle of one vote one value, under the provisions of this Bill there will be differences of quotas between States. Some States will have an average of 69 000 electors in an electorate and others will go back to 67 000 electors. While I support and will defend the proposition that those seats over 5000 square kilometres in area should not have any fewer voters than the urban seats, I still think that the proposition does not go far enough. I hope that at the next redistribution common sense will prevail and people who live in the remote areas of this nation will receive electoral justice. 
I welcome this opportunity to add my contribution to this debate, particularly in view of the speculation and distortion that has occurred in the last few days as to what my attitude to the referendums will be in the Parliament and when they are put before the people. 
If  Senator Cavanagh  would like to listen he might learn something. I have expressed my concern about the methods used by the Government in bringing this measure before us without adequate consultation in the proper places; I do not mean in the media but in the party rooms. I believe that a matter which concerns honourable senators as much as this matter does should have been discussed with us before a decision was made. There are certain provisions in this Bill about which I am not happy. They have been canvassed by those who are opposing the Bill. I do not go all the way with them. I have an open mind in these matters. If someone can prove to me that the argument I am using is not correct and that he has a better one I will be happy to change my mind. 
I believe that there should be simultaneous elections. I have always believed that. Our founding fathers intended that in the Constitution. I believe that the public wants the elections for the 2 Houses of Parliament to come together. If it is good enough for the Senate to send the House of Represenatives to the peoplethat is what it did in 1974- it should also face the people. In the present situation we could send the members of the House of Representatives to the people and they would have to face the people. We could then remain in the Senate without having to face an election. We could have done that in 1974 but on that occasion a half-Senate election was due. I do not agree with the former Prime Minister  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on most things but on that occasion I thought he had something when he said that people who had been elected in 1967 and in 1970 were able to make a decision to send the people who were elected in 1972 to 2 elections without going to an election themselves. I thought that remark had a lot of merit. I agree that if it is possible we do not wish to take away the powers of the Senate, particularly as it is the forum for the smaller States. That is why I have always had difficulty in coming to a decision on a provision such as this. I had that difficulty in 1974. However, that is a decision I shall have to make if and when these referendums appear before the public. 
That is not what we are arguing in this chamber today. We are arguing whether a decision made at the Constitutional Convention should go to the people. That is the decision that we have to make. Whatever we may say about the Constitutional Convention and however many of us may like or dislike it, the fact is that the Federal Government, all State governments and local governments are represented on that body. They have accepted that body. I had hoped that they would scrap the Constitutional Convention. It is unfortunate that it was resurrected on the suggestion of my State Parliament. I have always believed that if one belongs to an organisation like that one must accept its decisions. In this case there was an overwhelming decision that these matters should be placed before the people. As the Federal Government is really the only instrumentality that can implement the decisions of the Constitutional Convention we have a responsibility to act on its behalf. I wish to make it quite clear that that is the main reason why I am voting with the Government on this occasion. If I had to make a decision on the merits or demerits of the provisions of the Bill itself I might be taking a different stand. 
The other matter that has been thrown backwards and forwards across this chamber concerns the Government's principles and what it did in 1974. I can assure everyone in this chamber that I have no qualms about what I did in 1974. I had the same reservations then as I have now. I campaigned the way I did in 1974 because this provision was mixed up with a lot of other provisions which I regarded as dangerous. It was practical to tell the people that they were better off voting against all the proposals than to single out one or two. It did not worry me whether this provision was defeated. That is the way I campaigned against the proposals that time and that is probably the way I will campaign on this occasion. Someone asked me what I am going to do when this matter comes before the people. I have not yet seen the Yes case or the No case. I will make up my mind when I have seen them. I wished to put the record straight and that is the only reason for my entering this debate. 
-I present the following petition from 67 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned concerned citizens respectfully showeth: 
Australia's extensive road system is a national asset wasting because of inadequate Federal and State funding. 
Commonwealth Government funding of roads has fallen over the last six years from 2.9 per cent of all Commonwealth outlays to 2.3 percent. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament assembled, should ensure: 
That the Commonwealth Government's long-term policy should be to provide SO per cent of all funding for Australia 's roads. 
That at a minimum the Commonwealth Government adopts the recommendations by the Australian Council of Local Government Associations for the allocation of $5,903m of Commonwealth, State and Local Government funds to roads over the five years ending 1980-81, of which the Commonwealth share would be 41 per cent as recommended by the Bureau of Roads. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. A document issued last month by his Department lists a  Mr Baxter  as Press Secretary to  Senator Wriedt,  the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. Is he  Mr Ken  Baxter, a rural journalist who is said to have written regularly under the names of Kenneth Graham and A. K. Holland? If so, in view of  Mr Baxter's  new position I ask whether he is still writing under these or any other names since, for example, recent feature articles entitled Farming' and 'Sheep on the Comeback Trail' by Kenneth Graham expressed views with considerable political overtones although obviously they were meant to be read as having been written by an independent journalist. Does the Minister believe that it is proper for a Press Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate to express views with political import in a manner that purports to be of independent origin? Finally, are there any restrictions on parliamentary staff accepting second jobs, especially where they involve the use of assumed names and the use of facilities of the Parliament that otherwise would be unavailable? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of speculation in Cairns resulting from a report that a booking has been made with the owner of a big game fishing boat in the name of a South African head of state and also a report that a booking has been made with a motel in Cairns for a leading Ugandan diplomat- both bookings for early July- will the Minister ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether any person fitting that description has applied to visit this country? 
Pursuant to order of the Senate, I bring up the report of Estimates Committee B, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and the explanatory notes provided by the departments whose estimates the Committee considered. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 -Mr President, I rise to support the Meat and Live-stock Corporation Bill. We have just heard  Senator McLaren  talk for about 20 minutes. Most of his speech was devoted to the internal policy of the Japanese Government which has protected its industry by imposing taxes. In 
Australia, to protect our beef producers, we do not allow the importation of beef. The actions of the Japanese have nothing to do with the beef industry in Australia. This is what the Japanese want to do. It is up to them to decide whether they want to buy our meat. It is up to us at least to decide what price we want for it. I come back to the - 
The same thing has happened in regard to sugar. The Japanese Government does not want its people to buy sugar so a tax is placed on it. We place tariffs on imports coming into this country for the same reason. I will not argue with people who have just found out things that everyone else has known for years. I want to support this Bill because the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  his staff, the Department of Primary Industry and the backbench members of the joint Government parties have been working on it for over 12 months. By the way, most of the back bench members concerned with the legislation represent rural electorates or beef producers or are beef producers themselves. For over 12 months they have been trying to sort out the tangle and the multitude of submissions from producer organisations. 
It is most unfortunate in these very bad times for the beef industry that there is so much disunity. Unity should be the order of the day. A united industry could come to the Government and say: 'This is what we want because it will get us out of our trouble'. Unfortunately, this has not happened. We have had faction fighting ever since the introduction of the legislation was suggested and it has been almost impossible to sort out the morass. I congratulate the Minister and those responsible for bringing in this Bill for at least being able to get something that is supported by most of the producers and which at least deals with the problems that the beef producers have put to the Government. The present situation is not unusual. This case has a parallel with the wool industry. The history of the matter goes back to 1 95 1 when we tried to institute marketing reform in the wool indistry. The faction fighting in the industry prevented that from taking place for 20 years. Eventually it was forced on the industry and now the Australian Wool Corporation is acting in the interests of the wool industry. We do not hear much criticism of the Corporation these days. It is doing its job. 
The interesting point is that 2 people can take most of the credit for getting the wool industry out of its problems. One of them was a paint salesman. I do not want to denigrate  Sir William  Vines but that is what he was before he came to the wool industry. The other man, Alf Maiden, was a public servant. They were not wool producers. The fact is that they applied themselves. They had the expertise. They were brilliant people. They applied themselves to doing something for the industry. They were not fettered in their actions by having to report back to a multitude of people who were not  au fait  with the facts but who had all the ideas in the world. These 2 gentlemen did not have to face the situation that if they did not do what certain people wanted they would get the sack. No organisation can run on that basis. 
It is regrettable that the wool producers, having accepted marketing reform and the floor price scheme, are paying 5 per cent of their gross returns a year into the scheme at a time when they can ill afford it. Had they accepted the scheme prior to 1 95 1 the additional tax paid in that year would have financed the whole scheme, not to mention the losses that have occurred in the interim period. This is the problem that we have today with this particular legislation. This Bill is not as controversial as has been made out by a lot of people. It is just an excuse for the warring factions within the industry to try to gain control of the rank and file. The interesting thing, of course, concerning all the requirements that have been made publicly throughout the Press and elsewhere about what they want to do to Sinclair, what they want to do to this Bill, is that when we talk to those leaders quietly and say, All right, let us get down to basic facts', they say, No, there is not very much difference between us'. But, of course, they have lit the fires back in the bush in order to try to get the support of the rank and file of their organisations. Consequently, they must appear publicly to be out in front leading. 
I have had a great deal of experience with primary industry organisations. Once we get these things finalised the dust settles and everything is all right again. To give honourable senators a typical example of the emotional outbursts that have been made, I have received-as, I would say, many other members and senators concerned with the beef industry in the various States have received- letters from rank and file people, members of our respective parties, from back in the bush, not from Canberra or from union leaders. They have been writing us letters and telling us how serious the position is. One can almost read between the lines that the difference between prosperity and ruin depends on one person on the Meat Corporation. In other words, if there are 4 members on the Meat Corporation, the producers will be faced with ruin; if there are five members, everything will be all right. This, of course, is what the leaders of some organisations have told these people. This is the big issue. They say that there must be producer control. But when we talk to those particular leaders here in Canberra, they change ground. They say: 'Oh, no. That is not the problem now. We do not want producer control '. But they forget to tell the boys back in the bush. This is the silly situation in which we find ourselves. 
The Government has done a lot of ground work on this matter. It has been going on for 12 months.  Senator McLaren  said: 'The producers do not know what is going on.' Every producer organisation months ago was given an outline of what the Bill may contain so that they could send back their reports or criticise it or do what they liked to it. This has been going on for 6 months. That is why all the protests were held last week and the week before. The Cattlemen's Union representatives have come here saying that they want producer control of the Board. They say that the corporation that the Government is putting forward does not have producer control. They have all known the intent of the Bill for months. Probably if the Government had not told them what was in the Bill there would not be all the shemozzle that is going on now, but the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  has been determined to try to get some sort of unity within the industry. After all, it is the industry which must eventually live with the legislation. It is in their interests and therefore they should know what is best for them. 
All that the Government has been trying to do for 12 months is to find out exactly what the industry believes is best for it. As I said before, this has happened to nearly every primary producing organisation or industry in which we have had to try to introduce marketing reform. All I can say, in the limited time that is available- it is unfortunate that on important legislation such as this we are limited in time- is that the sooner we pass this legislation and get on with the job of looking after the interests of the producers and let the warring factions go back to the bush and fight it out in the scrub, the better it will be for this nation and particularly for the beef producers. The next step I would like to see is that once this corporation is set up and it can handle those particular areas where there is Federal responsibility, the Commonwealth should then take a lead in endeavouring to get the States to agree on some form of classification. We can then have some form of minimum price arrangement or encourage some sort of minimum price so that we do not have this situation which occurs today where there is an over-supply of beef. When there is an over-supply of beef in the auction system, the producer is the one who will always suffer. We do not need minimum price provisions when there is an undersupply because the demand is there. If there is an undersupply, the price will go up. That is the situation at the moment. Because of the auction system which the producers have always wanted to retain we have this problem. I think that the sooner we pass this legislation after the 18 months it has taken to get it to this stage the better. 
I am pleased to take part in this debate. Firstly, I wish to reaffirm my allegiance to the Crown, to  Her  Majesty the Queen. I congratulate the Governor-General,  Sir Zelman  Cowen, on his appointment. There is no doubt that he was a very great Queenslander while he was in the State of Queensland. He was highly respected by the people there. He has a great record throughout this nation and I have little doubt that he will carry out his duties with the competence and dignity that is expected of him and that he will earn the respect of the people. I also wish to congratulate  Senator Walters  for moving and  Senator Collard  for seconding the motion in respect of the Address-in-Reply. I assure them that they will have my wholehearted support. I also wish to congratulate  Senator Haines  on her maiden speech. I was very interested in what she had to say, in particular to her reference to pornography, which I think  Senator Sheil  had mentioned earlier. I wholeheartedly agree with her but would suggest that she contact her Federal leader and discuss the matter with him. If I recall correctly the days when he was the Minister for Customs and Excise- I remember the Little Red School Book as a particular example- his views did not coincide with those of  Senator Haines. 
Before going on to the general topics I wish to refer to a matter brought up here, I think by the first Opposition  speaker,  concerning a  Mr Bill  Wood in Queensland and the fact that he was not re-engaged in the Queensland Department of Education. I know that this is a State matter and I hoped that it would be left in the State of Queensland. However, because it has been raised here I think it is only right that I should put the record straight and give the other side of the story.  Mr Bill  Wood was a member of the Department of Education until he resigned to contest the State seat of, I think, Cook in 1968 or 1 969. He held that seat and was a member of the State Parliament for some six years and then was defeated. He was re-employed by the Education Department but then, a year later in 1975, he decided to enter politics again so he resigned from the Department to contest the seat of Leichhardt. He was defeated at that election and was reemployed by the Education Department. Two years later, in 1977, he resigned again to contest the seat of Leichhardt. From then on the problem has arisen. 
I think the position in the Education Department in Queensland should be stated here. Firstly, there are staff limitations. While the economy is in its present state the Queensland Government has placed limitations, as has the Federal Government. At present the Education Department in Queensland is overstaffed according to the levels that have been authorised by the Government. About 500 teachers are awaiting re-entry into the Department. Many of those teachers resigned to further their studies to become better teachers and so forth. Surely it is fair that if  Mr Bill  Wood cannot make up his mind whether he wants to be in politics or teaching he should not go to the top of the list above those other people every couple of years. 
I do not know. The last I heard is that the Premier said that he can go on to the list. Let us remember that there are different areas in the teaching profession and if a vacancy occurs in the particular area in which he is interested he will probably get the job. However, I do not think he should go to the top of the list. The other point that I think should be made is that during the whole period his wife has been employed by the Education Department, so it is not as though the family is without means. 
The next item I would like to mention is a matter that has concerned the Senate for a long time. It has been the subject of great debate around this place. It is the matter of uranium exports. I honestly cannot quite follow the policy of the Australian Labor Party and the trade union movement in this matter. I have taken a great deal of interest in it and have tried to gain all the information I can and to reach a conclusion. After all, it is a very serious matter and one which concerns the nation. Therefore it must concern every individual and particularly members of Parliament. 
The policy that has been adopted by the Labor Party and the trade unions unfortunately will not allay fears or bring about the results they wish to obtain. The decision we must make is whether we sell uranium oxide to an energy starved world that has already made a decision to develop nuclear power. There is some confusion as to what Australia's role is in this area. It seems to me that the impression is gained around the place that Australia can decide whether or not the world has nuclear power and that if we refuse to supply uranium oxide to the nations of the world they will change to some other form of energy. That, of course, is absolute rubbish. The fact is that at $40 per lb for uranium oxide Australia has something like 25 per cent of the world's reserves. At $60 per lb Australia's known reserves are only nine per cent of the world's known reserves. These figures are for the free world outside the communist bloc. We do not know the extent of uranium deposits in the communist areas. If the price of uranium oxide goes to $100 per lb our deposits will represent a mere drop in the bucket because at that price, and with present technology, uranium can be extracted from the greatest resource of all, the sea. 
Under conventional systems of electricity generation the cost of fuel represents only about five per cent of the total cost of electricity generation. This figure varies depending on the area, but in most cases 70 per cent to 75 per cent of the cost of generating electricity is in reticulation. This will of course vary depending on whether electricity is reticulated to widespread country areas where consumers are not using much electricity. In that case, of course, reticulation costs will be higher. If electricity is reticulated to a highly industrialised area the reticulation costs go down. The figures I have cited relate to the mean cost of generating electricity. 
I do not know the break-up of costs as far as nuclear power is concerned, but when one hears that nuclear power for electricity generation is somewhere near the cost of conventional type generation these days one can assume that the 75 per cent figure will not vary; each has the same means of reticulation. If we can assume that five per cent is about the figure for the cost of the fuel and the cost of uranium is doubled it would increase electricity charges by five per cent. 
What will happen if the price of uranium goes up because Australia is a non-supplier? Other nations may bring into operation mines that are not now economic. Many of these nations might not be as responsible as we are. For example, who is to say that South Africa will insist on the sort of waste disposal safeguards on which the Australian Government is insisting? I think South Africa would use the bargaining power resulting from its uranium resources in order to protect its domestic policies. This is what the present policy of the Labor Party and the trade unions will bring about. A more important factor is that it will hasten the day of the breeder reactor for energy generation. That is the very thing we are trying to stop. Instead of the waste plutonium being stored in safe areas it will be stockpiled around the world close to the generating areas. We will then run the risk of terrorists and other people getting hold of the commodity, which we do not want to happen. 
We must get away from the breeder reactor and make sure that plutonium is put where it cannot be touched by the wrong people. If we insist upon those people who secure our cheaper uranium storing the waste properly we will have done something to safeguard the interests of the world. That is my point of view. I should like honourable senators opposite to say that that is not correct. This is exactly what will happen. It is time the Labor Party really looked at this issue. 
That is not the issue. If we do not supply uranium, other nations with less interest than us will supply it. This is my argument. 
-Our responsibility is to insist that those nations to which we sell uranium institute safeguards for the disposal of waste products. We cannot do that if we are not selling uranium to them. That is quite obvious. If we can supply the major consumers in the world and place heavy restrictions on the disposal of waste material we will have some say in the future. But we will have none if we do not supply uranium to an energy starved world. 
That is something on which we have to insist. As we have cheap uranium we can do something about it. If we do not supply other nations and they have to go elsewhere we will have no say in the matter. 
-That is another argument. 

 - Mr Justice Fox said that we should export uranium. That is the issue I am raising. I am not going into back alleys. The mining of uranium is a different argument altogether. It is something that has to be decided after discussion by the Government with the Aboriginal councils and other people concerned. I am talking about whether we should export uranium. There is no argument today against the Government's attitude in this matter. It is insisting on secure safeguards for the disposal of the waste by any consumer to whom we sell our uranium. 
Yes. That is enough of that matter. I now get on to another hobby horse of mine. It is a subject which has been bandied around here for years. Nothing has happened. Both sides of politics have made decisions in this area but they have dropped them. We do not know whether to go on with it or not. I refer to the abolition of the means tests for the pension. I have always been a great supporter of its abolition, though not for all the reasons that have been put forward. 
It did not know why it was tapering it off. It stopped after a while. I am giving the reasons why I believe the means test should be abolished. There are the old arguments that those who pay taxes throughout their lives should be entitled to some security when they grow old, particularly those who may have contributed a great deal in taxation over many years and who find in the last few years of their active lives that things have gone against them and they are more or less on the breadline. They should be entitled to the same sort of consideration as anyone else who probably has not contributed the same amount. 
Another argument is that abolition of the means test would cost too much. I believe that in the long run it would be a cheap investment. I have been informed that on normal standards of inflation and interest rates and so forth, without taking extremes, a person would need to invest approximately $300,000 in normal securities in order to earn enough after taxation to cut off the direct pension for himself and his wife, plus all the indirect assistance to pensioners. There are not too many people in the $300,000 income bracket. What do people do a few years before the age of retirement? In order to qualify for the pension they dispose of assets. 
Young people up to the age of 25 years or thereabouts are more concerned about securing what they want in life. They may want a carsomething they have had to borrow from Dad over the years. They have no money to invest. They decide to get married and spend their income for the next 1 5 years or 20 years on building a home, bringing up and educating children and so on. They have no money to invest. When they reach the age of 45 years, 50 years or 55 years they are probably at the highest earning capacity of their careers. They have foremen's jobs or they are managers of departments. Their houses are paid for and they have all the normal material assets they require. Their families are off their hands. They have excess income to invest. If those people knew that they would get the old age pension no matter what happened they would not divest themselves of their assets. 
As honourable senators know, some people buy palatial homes because they are allowed to own a home and still receive a pension. They are too old to look after a big home. They would be better off in a seaside cottage. They have great big cars when a little car would do. They do these things to satisfy the means test. If there were no means test I believe these people would invest in the resources of this country. They have an untold source of wealth that we could tap and use for the benefit of the country. We would not have to depend so much on overseas funds as we do now. The old story is that Australians will not invest and we have to get money from overseas. Those Australians who are able to invest are not given the opportunity to do so. 
Here is an excellent opportunity for people to take an interest in the industries of this country. They would pass on their shares and investments to their families. People aged 40 years or 45 years would probably become interested in and part of the investment scene in Australia. I do not think it would be a bad thing if every worker in Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, through his father or someone else, happened to be a shareholder in that company. The workers would have a financial interest and a great deal more interest in their job. I think that is a far better method of establishing good relations between management and workers. 
I think that if one has a financial interest in a concern one participates to a greater extent in the working of that concern. 
Yes, I know. The workers probably have a financial interest in the companies in which they work. They are probably encouraged to buy shares in the companies. I believe that in the long run this sort of thing would be good for this country. Even if millionaires were to get the old age pension they would not be exempt from paying tax. The amount of the pension would be exempt from tax, but tax would be payable on the amount earned in excess of the figure at which taxation begins. Everyone would be paying his way. 
Having disposed of that matter there is another issue with which I want to deal in the 10 minutes left to me in this debate. I believe that we should implement this proposal as soon as possible, although I know that it will be resisted. I am referring to the proposal to give back to the States the responsibility for raising their own tax revenue. I have always been a believer in the theory that a person who has the responsibility for spending money should also have the responsibility for raising the revenue. This is an excellent opportunity for the States. Today, direct grants to the States amount to half or threequarters of the total income tax received by the 
Commonwealth, apart from company tax. I believe that the stage could be reached where the Commonwealth could withdraw from the field of the collection of income tax and leave it to the States to run their own house and put it in order. The Commonwealth Government would still collect revenue by indirect taxation. We could not have a situation in which the rate of sales tax and excise duty on cigarettes, beer and so on varied between States. We know what section 92 of the Constitution says. I believe that the Commonwealth Government must be the manager of those sorts of affairs. We must have uniform indirect taxes including uniform excise duties, throughout the nation. 
I believe that the State governments, which are always hammering the Federal Government and saying that they are not getting a decent slice of the national cake, should be given the responsibility for raising their own funds. Under section 96 of the Constitution the smaller States such as Tasmania, Queensland, Western Australia and South Australia are able to receive extra money because of their large undeveloped areas and the fact that the population in those States is small. I do not want to interfere with those provisions. All I want is for the States to be given the opportunity to raise their own funds. 
No. At the moment we just give the States money. I suggest that the States should be given back the right to collect tax revenue to meet their commitments, and if they want more funds the decision is theirs. This would show half of the States what the Commonwealth Government is up against. The Queensland Government, for instance, is one government that has tried to develop its State. If a State government believes that by imposing lower taxes it can still get on with the development of the State it should tell that to the people. The people of Australia could decide whether they wanted a free enterprise system or a socialist system by comparing the operations between different States. At the present time most people do not know which system they prefer. I am not denigrating the views of Opposition supporters in respect of what they believe to be the right sort of a system. But I believe that we cannot have a hotch-potch of a free enterprise system one week and a socialist system the next week. We have one or the other. We know the problems which have been created over the last few years by switching course from one direction to another. I believe that this is the only way in which the people of Australia will be able to judge for themselves. They will be able to compare the operations of a free enterprise government in one State with the operations of a socialist government in another State. They can do this only if the States are given the responsibility for raising tax revenue instead of the Premiers coming cap in hand to Canberra to get funds. 
I believe that the Government's program to get this nation back on its feet is very sound. I know that it will take time but I think that the Government is on the right track. There will be a lot of problems for certain industries. We know that there are problems facing the rural industries today. I hope that this Government will tide over some of them to make sure that they will still be in business when things come good. One thing that the rural industries and the rural community must have is better communications. There also must be a greater recognition of the lack of amenities in rural communities and a greater recognition of the high cost of living for people in the outback. The Government has to ensure that people in the bush are not regarded as second-class citizens and that they have the same opportunities and standards of living as people in urban areas have. I am afraid that at the present time the only way in which we can do this is through government financial assistance. I have very great pleasure in supporting the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply so ably moved by  Senator Walters  and seconded by  Senator Collard. 
Is the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Trade and Resources aware of the decision by the Labour Government of the United Kingdom to proceed with a nuclear waste treatment plant to produce plutonium for future power generation? Would the uncertainty of securing supplies of uranium oxide from a major producer- Australia- be a major factor in this decision? If other countries contemplate this move, does this not heighten the danger of plutonium falling into the wrong hands, instead of being stored away safely as waste? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, follows the questions asked by Senators Wright and  Sir Magnus  Cormack. Will the Government consider extending the suggested tax to corporate bodies, such as trade unions, so that the cost of their activities to the community can be firmly established 
I did not intend to take part in this debate but at the last minute I decided to do so for a short period just to reply to some of the red herrings that have been mentioned by the Opposition. It is interesting to note that it was the Whitlam Government that made the decision to carry on with uranium mining in this country; it was the Whitlam Government that drew up the Ranger agreement and entered into partnership with the companies involved; and it was the Whitlam Government that set up the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry in order to discover the best guidelines for the mining and export of uranium. As a result of that all that this Government has done is to endorse what the Whitlam Government did. It has followed the guidelines set down in the Fox report for the mining and export of uranium. The Bills before us have been drafted for one express purpose, even though they may have an effect in the future, and that is to expedite the mining and export of uranium. 
The interesting thing is that the Labor Party was in favour of it once but the Left wing of that party decided that it would not have any part of it. I do not know from whom it received its instructions. Eventually the Labor Party found itself in a dilemma with half of its members wanting to export uranium and half of them not wanting to do so. Of course, red herrings are being spread in order to put a smokescreen around the difficulties within the Labor Party. If we get right down to tin tacks, the decision is really whether we should or should not mine uranium. Both the Whitlam Government and this Government decided that we should. Now the Labor Party has decided that we should not and this happened because the Left wing had the numbers. So we have this compromise from the Labor Party about which we all know. We know about the great negotiating job that  Mr Hawke  did on that occasion. He has always been regarded as a negotiator and apparently he was very successful in negotiating a compromise which actually meant nothing. That is why we hear all about these red herrings today. The fact is that if we do not export uranium, somebody else will supply the market. 
The interesting thing about it is that if we do not export uranium we will have no say in nuclear safeguards. 
What do honourable senators on the Opposition side think the Government is doing? That is why the Iran agreement is being held up. All of our long range agreements are being held up because we are demanding safeguards. The interesting thing is that if we do not supply the uranium our main competitors in the supply of uranium, such as South Africa and Chile, will supply it. So what the Australian Labor Party is actually doing, by its policy and philosophy, is helping the exporters of uranium in South Africa and Chile. 
That is exactly what it is doing. The idea that some people seem to have that Australia has the monopoly on uranium is absolute nonsense. We do have a large proportion of what we might call 'cheap extractable uranium', but a lot of other countries have uranium for which the cost of extraction is a lot higher. As I explained here some time ago, we have approximately 25 per cent of the world's known reserves of uranium if the price remains between $30 and $40 a lb. If the price rises to $60 a lb that proportion will drop to about 8 per cent. If it increases to $ 100 a lb our resources will not mean a thing because the greatest resources of uranium in the world are in the sea. It is estimated that with present technology uranium can successfully be gained from the sea at a cost of $ 100 a lb. So if we want to have some say in what is going on overseas we must be able to export our uranium and to keep the price down. If we are to have all the say that our Opposition friends would like us to have we will have to do this. 
A number of red herrings have been drawn around here. For instance, I think it was  Senator O'Byrne  who brought in the subject of Hiroshima and claimed that because of what happened in Hiroshima we should not have anything to do with uranium. I walked around the ruins of Hiroshima a few weeks after the bomb was dropped. It was something which I shall always remember. 
The honourable senator had better keep away from me. I shall always remember the horror of that place. The fact is that the Japanese are well aware of what happened then too, yet the Japanese are one of the leaders in the nuclear power generation field. The Japanese are very high users of energy and have very few energy resources of their own. Consequently, for their own survival they have to resort to other sources of energy. I know that they are taking a lot of our coal. They rely on coal from other countries. They have none of their own. 
As we are all well aware, the Japanese have had problems with fossil fuels as a result of the producers' agreements in the Arab countries which caused the oil war not so long ago. Consequently, the Japanese want a fuel of the future to supply their energy needs. Of course, there is another reason the Japanese have been so keen on nuclear energy, that is, because it is such a highly industrialised nation that the normal methods of generating power, such as coal burning and the like, have created a tremendous amount of pollution in that country. Nuclear power is one of the cleanest fuels, with approximately one-fifteenth of the emission of pollution for the same generation of power. That is one of the main reasons Japan has decided to support the nuclear industry. 
The facts are that we must export uranium to an energy-starved world. As I said previously, if we do not do so other nations- I mentioned countries such as Chile and South Africa- which might not have the same interests as we have and might not demand the same safeguards as we would demand will supply uranium in our place. Not only that, the economic advantages to this nation of exporting uranium are tremendous. It seems to me to be a completely stupid concept that we should leave the uranium in the ground while everyone else is using and producing their uranium. It is quite obvious that Australia, as the thirteenth trading nation of the world, depending entirely on trade, should be trading in this product. 
Another argument which has been raised here relates to plutonium. Of course, plutonium is the dangerous waste of a nuclear industry. The fact is that if we do not supply uranium to the world and keep the price down to a reasonable figure of $30 to $40 a lb-if the price goes up to $60 or $100 a lb, whatever it might be, because of a shortage of cheap extractable uranium- all the nations are going to turn from the ordinary power plants as we know them today to the breeder reactors and will be using plutonium. So I for one fully support the Government in these proposals. I suggest, as most of the gallup polls have suggested, that most Australians, whilst naturally being worried about safeguards and the like, are completely happy about our exporting uranium provided, as I said, there are sufficient safeguards. I believe that this Government has been acting responsibly, and I hope that these Bills will have an early passage through the Senate. 
-! seek leave to table written replies received by Estimates Committee D since the Committee reported to the Senate on 1 1 May 1 978. 
Leave granted 
I table the replies and seek leave to have then incorporated .in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
Despite  Senator Walsh  's claim that this matter has a bearing on this clause, we should discuss the clauses as they come up. I ask the Committee to make a decision on clause 2 of the Bill. 
As  Senator Colston  has said, this debate has been carrying on for some time. I think it was three weeks ago that the main debate took place in this chamber. Whilst I intended then to answer quite a few of the statements made by the Opposition, as the amount of time is limited, at this stage I will not cover much ground and I will not hold up the Senate. I support the International Sugar Agreement Bill as I believe that it is absolutely necessary for Australia to have some sort of an agreement. I agree with those who say that it is unfortunate that the European Economic Community is not a signatory to the agreement. After all, politics is the art of the possible, and if the EEC cannot come into a scheme there is no way in the world that Australia or any other nation can force it to come in. The conditions on which it would have been prepared to come into the International Sugar Agreement would have meant less tonnage for Australia because of the over-production problems of the EEC. However, 84 per cent of the world sugar trade is involved in the International Sugar Agreement, covering some 37 producing countries and some 11 importing countries. 
The whole object of the International Sugar Agreement does not bring about a reserve or a guaranteed price. In fact, I do not know of a world agreement which guarantees prices for primary industry commodities. The beef producers of Australia are finding that out at this time. Probably the only industry in Australia which has some sort of stability in that direction is the wool industry, but of course that industry has a completely different problem. It does not have the problem of over-production. I think that 30 years ago wool fulfilled 19 per cent of the world's needs for apparel fibre. Although we have increased production and have sold every bit of wool we have produced since then, today we can supply only 6'/i per cent of the world's needs for apparel fibre. Through the International Wool Secretariat we have agreements with other countries which operate through the mechanism of a floor price plan. But there is no way in the world that that system can operate with wheat, sugar, meat or any other commodity which is in over-supply. 
The best we can hope to do is to remove the fluctuations from the market. If we look at what has been happening over the last few years in the sugar industry we can certainly see a need for the removal of fluctuations. In November 1974 prices on the overseas market varied from something like $50 a ton to $650 a ton. In 1974 they even varied from $ 143 a ton in January to $650 a ton in November. Quite obviously a situation such as that has to be controlled. Such a situation is not in the interests of the producers or of the consumers. It is quite obvious that if we have prices such as $650 a ton every country and every farmer will try to produce sugar to get in on the high prices. Then, when the market is over supplied and the price drops everyone will want to get out. What the consuming and producing countries want is some sort of stability in production and price. It is quite obvious that once the price of any material goes too high consumers will look for substitutes. It is in the interests of the sugar industry that prices do not go too high but that they at least remain at some stable level. That is the whole reason for the International Sugar Agreement. We certainly hope that international sugar agreements will be carried into the future. I certainly hope that at some stage the European Economic Community will become a signatory to the Agreement. 
Most of the speech by  Senator Douglas  McClelland concerned the plight of sugar growers in northern New South Wales. In the past three weeks events which have occurred have more or less ameliorated some of the problems. Having gone through northern New South Wales and having talked to many of the sugar producers, I understand that the problem is not that CSR Ltd, which is getting out of milling operations, is asking too much for its mills. In fact, most of the producers in that area believe that the price which the company is seeking for the sale of those mills is very fair. But the fact is that the industry did not have the funds. It had no liquidity with which to purchase the mills. 
-No, the $6m price. That is the price being paid. The fact is that the producers in the industry did not have the money to buy the mills. They want loan funds from either the New South Wales Government or the Gederal Government. I understand that they will receive funds. The New South Wales Government has given them a guarantee of funds and they are negotiating with the Federal Government at the present time. The funds will be provided in the form of loans which will be repaid over the years through a levy which will be imposed on growers. Whilst I do not have any brief for the CSR company, I do state that the price finally sought from the growers was more than fair in the eyes of the growers. 
A lot has been said also about the Australian sugar industry and what will happen to it. It has been suggested that there will have to be a cutback and that we will have to store tonnes of sugar and so on. The Australian sugar industry has always been a controlled industry which operates on peaks. Every expansion which has taken place in the industry has not been undertaken totally by bringing in new producers. In a great deal of the expansion programs the tonnages of each grower have been increased. In the last few years when it was found that sugar contracts were available and that we could sell more sugar on overseas markets than was previously thought, peaks of individual growers were not increased but, once individual growers had reached their peaks they were allowed to produce above their peaks to enable extra production. 
That was so years ago. 
Yes, in each expansion they increased assignments. But the increased sugar sales have been met by production in excess of the assignments. This has been the case for I do not know how many years. But there was never a situation in which assignments were allotted on the previous year's production or the previous year's sales. Assignments were always well below those figures. The sugar industry has operated on the basis that, once all the peaks have been met, if another 10 per cent of sugar is required to fulfil sales contracts, the individual growers are permitted to produce an additional amount to supply to the mills. By this means they get what might be called a bonus. 
This time, because there will be a shortfall on sales, all the sugar industry has done is to bring growers back to peaks. There might be extra sales again this year; we do not know. There might be additional sales somewhere else. If that is the case, the mechanism will operate again and over-peak production will be allowed by the various mills and the Sugar Board. So no grower will be cut back. It will be a case of cane being left in the ground and not of sugar being stored. I think that the sooner we proceed with the passage of this Bill in the interests of the Australian sugar industry the better. I conclude my remarks and give my support to the Bill. 
Order! It being 4.30 p.m., under Sessional Orders I put the question: 
That the Temporary Chairman do now leave the Chair and report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the negative. 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry give any details of a report this morning that the United States will increase its beef imports? What are Australia's prospects in this regard? 
This is the first time I have spoken in a debate concerning the Aboriginal question in general or Aurukun and Mornington Island in particular. I have always believed that the Aboriginal question has been used as a political football in Australia. It has been used for political gain by all sorts of people seeking publicity. The only people who have suffered as a result have been the Aboriginal people themselves. I have lived in the area of Aurukun for a long time. I was reared on a cattle property not far from Aurukun. In fact 800 Aboriginals lived on the property. It was looked after by my father, who was the manager, and by my mother, who acted as nurse, educator and what have you. So I have a little knowledge of the Aboriginal people. 
The first trouble of recent times occurred when the Whitlam Government came to power and started its program of hand-outs to Aborigines. In north Queensland right up to the Torres Strait, the Whitlam Government seemed to have the attitude that if it could outdo the Queensland Government by giving more here and giving more there it would get more support. The competition between both governments- I say ' both governments'; I blame each one- was deplorable. Consequently the activists, the stirrers and those in the Aboriginal community who want to create problems have taken advantage of this opportunity. 
It has always been my desire and wish to bring together the Commonwealth, the State and the Aboriginals in joint management and not to have either the State Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement or the Federal Department of Aboriginal Affairs in sole control. When the problems in Aurukun broke out some six months ago I was more instrumental than anyone else in the early stages in trying to get the Federal and State authorities together. They were on a confrontation course and about to have a head-on collision. I believed that this sort of confrontation was no solution to the problem. I was able to get the parties together. Eventually, after hours of meetings between the Premier and certain other people and some Federal Ministers, an agreement was reached. We hoped that the agreement would operate on a sensible basis from then on. 
Of course there will be problems. The setting up of shire councils is something new in the operation of Aboriginal affairs. Of course problems existed in these areas beforehand. A sort of cargo cult had been indoctrinated into the people there. It is quite obvious that when people receive taxpayers' money from the Commonwealth or the State governments they do not expect strings to be attached to it. Everyone knows that grants made to shire councils by the Commonwealth or the States for certain purposes such as roads, hospitals, schools or sewerage systems must be spent for those purposes. If responsible governments are to hand out money in a responsible fashion there has to be control over the taxpayers' money. I would have hoped that everyone would give the agreement between the Commonwealth and Queensland an opportunity to operate. It has been in existence for only a few months. 
I am not arguing one way or the other. I said 'everyone'. I am not supporting the Queensland Government to the hilt. Although  Senator Georges  did not have much to say about the Queensland Premier, it is interesting that debates on matters such as Aurukun provide an opportunity for honourable senators opposite to do a bit of Joh-bashing. To my knowledge, this has been going on ever since  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  became Premier ten years ago. Members of the Opposition in this place have been attacking him since then. The people of Queensland have given their answer. I do not think I need to defend the Premier. 
And the rest who support him in government. 
-The vote for the Labor Party in Queensland was reduced to 30 per cent; that is the only opposition the Premier has. 
-The Liberals in Queensland make up a coalition. Most of them support the Premier. We should endeavour to let the scheme work. I know difficulties will occur with the local people. Often ordinary shire councils can be upset by strings being attached to money they are given by governments. It is quite understandable that the people of Aurukun and Mornington Island, who do not have much knowledge of running shire affairs, will not accept any strings that may be attached. It will take them a fair while to understand fully their responsibilities. As far as I am concerned, Aboriginals in this country are Australians. If they live in Queensland they are Queenslanders and are part of Australia. They are not a separate race. They have the rights and privileges of every other Australian. They also have the responsibilities. Rights and responsibilities go hand in hand. 
I always reject Aborigines being considered different from other people. This is what the Labor Party has been projecting in debates here and outside. Let us treat Aborigines as Australians. The situation at Mornington Island and Aurukun is difficult. I believe that  Mr Hinze  has been doing a tremendous job in trying to help these people and in trying to make the arrangement work. There is no question in my mind that others have endeavoured to frustrate him. That applies to the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement, which for some reason or other- probably the fact that it lost control of the people at Mornington Island and Aurukun- wants the control. 
As I said before, I gave my good offices in the first place to try to bring about what I believe is a solution to the Aboriginal problem. The Federal and State authorities which look after Aboriginal affairs, plus the Aborigines themselves, should work this problem out without the assistance of all the stirrers and without debate that is going on in the public forum today. After all, nearly half of the Aboriginals in Australia live in Queensland. It is all very well for people in other States to tell us how to run our affairs. It is also a fact that for 40 years Queensland had a Labor Government which did a reasonable job with the Aboriginals under the circumstances that prevailed in those days. The same is being done today. One cannot say that over the last 50 years the same sort of control has been exercised by people in other States. 
Of course there are problems, but what we must do in the long run is to see that the matter gets out of the political area. These people have a different way of life to us, and that has to be appreciated. Let those who can get on with the job, who are prepared to get on with the job and who have the responsibility of getting on with the job of looking after these people and bringing them to a state of citizenship in our community or whatever they want, do it without all the public attacks that are made from year to year, day after day. I think we are all entirely sick of it. There are problems associated with what is happening there at the moment. I hope that the federal authorities will go there, that they will see the situation for themselves, that there will be negotiations and that they will give  Mr Hinze  the opportunity to operate these communities and try to make this system work. If that happens of course there will not be any need for all this publicity and for all the forums. Maybe many people in this community do not want that. Maybe they want to keep the matter a political football. I can assure you,  Mr President,  that I am not one of those people. I hope that the solution to these problems of the welfare and the progress of the Aboriginal people will be found by responsible officers and not by publicity seekers in the Press. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. How many residents of Papua New Guinea engaged by Torres Strait Island trawler and lugger owners have applied for work permits in Australia in the last 12 months? What is the normal period of the work permit? Are the Papua New Guinea citizens returned to their homeland at the expiration of that permit? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. What research findings have been made by the Institute of Marine Science near Townsville in relation to the deadly box jellyfish which abound in northern waters during the summer months? Has any research been undertaken by the Institute into the widely held theory that the large turtles prey on these jellyfish and that one reason for the proliferation of the jellyfish is the reduction of the turtle population? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of a report that Prime Minister Smith and the African leaders in his Government have been invited to the United States to discuss the problems of Rhodesia? Is this another attempt by  President  Carter to resolve differences in the world's trouble spots? What role will the Australian Government play in bringing about a peaceful solution to the problems of this former British colony? 
I would like to refer to a few of the comments made by  Senator Walsh.  At the beginning of his speech he referred to what  Mr Giles,  the honourable member for Wakefield, said in another place. I have not read the  Hansard  report of what  Mr Giles  said. I presume that what he meant was that any reduction in the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty or any increase in nitrogenous fertiliser prices would be taken into account in the present Industries Assistance Commission inquiry into costs in the sugar industry. In that sense, I do not think the statement attributed to  Mr Giles  is an inane statement; it is a statement of fact. 
I am personally disappointed that the Government should see fit to implement the IAC report, even if it recommends staggered stages for phasing out the bounty. Whilst I appreciate that the Government has budgetary problems, I would have hoped that assistance to productive industries, particularly those with a high export content, would not be reduced. If there is to be a reduction in government expenditure it should be in the non-profitable and non-productive areas. However, one has to appreciate that the biggest problem that has to be faced by this nation, particularly the primary producers of the country, is inflation. As anyone would know, it would be disastrous for any exporting industry if the rate of inflation were allowed to proceed at 16 per cent, as happened during the years of the Labor Government. Therefore, when the policy objective of the Budget is aimed at containing and reducing inflation we have to expect some form of reduction in assistance, whether it be assistance to primary industry or any other industry. As I said earlier when replying to what  Senator Walsh  had to say about the honourable member for Wakefield, there is one consolation for the sugar industry and that is that this matter will be taken into account, and must be taken into account, by the Industries Assistance Commission in its inquiry into the costs of the industry. I hope that the Government, as it has seen fit to implement the IAC report on the fertiliser bounty, even though it is on a staggered basis, will adopt the IAC report on the cost structure of the sugar industry. I am one who will ensure that the findings in that report in relation to the home consumption price are considered. 
I say to those people who believe that the National Country Party is a pro-subsidy party that it came into existence in the early 1920s as a free trade party to protect export industries against the high tariff and other forms of protection afforded to secondary industries in this country. At times the party has had to resort to supporting subsidies for rural industry but this has been to compensate rural industry for its high cost structure as a result of the tariffs and other forms of protection for secondary industry. I would support the abolition of subsidies for primary industry if the same thing applied to price support given to secondary industry. We could then get back to the stage of producing our goods without any propping up and of being able to compete on world markets. It is interesting to note that only a few years ago the home consumption price of sugar was one-quarter, and for a short period about one-sixth, of the world market price. There is no question about the efficiency of the industry. One of the reasons we were able to have a low home consumption price was the fact that the Government had given assistance by way of the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty which, when looked at from another angle, could be called a consumer bounty and not a producer bounty because of the prices charged to the Australian community. If we can ensure that the industry receives other benefits and that the home consumption price is made reasonably relative to the overseas price, there will be no necessity for bounties of this nature. 

 Senator Walsh also attacked the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  over a statement he made when he was the shadow Minister about restoring the superphosphate bounty and continuing the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Well, the Government did restore the superphosphate bounty and did continue the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. Even though it may be at a reduced rate, the bounty still exists. From what I have seen in print, the Minister has stated that there will be a nitrogenous fertiliser bounty.  Senator Walsh  foreshadowed that the Opposition is going to put on a little act by considering clause 4 first and postponing consideration of earlier clauses for a while, hoping to put people like me on the spot. One only has to read the wording of the Bill to know that if it is defeated there will be no bounty. None of us is going to fall for that little ruse. The fact is that as responsible Government senators we have to accept that we cannot be nicking away here and there at a Budget. We either have to accept or reject the Budget. Whilst we may be disappointed in some areas, and this is one such area, it is our responsibility to see that in future adequate compensation is given to an industry that loses some support or that that support is restored. 
This is not what the Labor Party has done in the past. We know its attitude towards the superphosphate bounty and the nitrogenous fertiliser bounty. If it had its way there would be no bounties at all. I am disappointed that the Government is reducing the bounty by some $20 per tonne. We appreciate the problems associated with inflation. In the last five years costs in the sugar industry have risen by some 135 per cent. After all a $20 reduction in the bounty is a mere pittance compared with a 135 per cent increase in costs. 
The sugar industry has stated that its costs have increased by 1 35 per cent over a period of five or six years. That is not unusual for any industry in Australia today. Bearing that in mind, reluctantly I will be supporting the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Mention has been made recently in the Queensland Press of a little known wheat disease called black chaff disorder. I believe that this disease is causing concern in the Dawson-Callide region. Will the Minister say what work is being done, and by whom, to combat the problem? What is known of the origin and method of propagation of black chaff disorder? In terms of the whole wheat crop, is the disease regarded as serious? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the widespread concern over the unemployment problem and the calling of a summit conference of national leaders to discuss the matter, can the Minister say whether the effect that penalty rates have on employment, particularly in the tourist industry, will be discussed at this meeting? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. In view of the decision by the United States Congress to block the sugar Bill for domestic reasons, how long is this decision expected to prolong the United States ratification of the International Sugar Agreement? Will the ratification of the International Sugar Agreement be discussed during the visit of the Minister for Primary Industry to the United States? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I rise to support the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Amendment Bill. If we go back into the history of this matter we will find that as a result of an inquiry by the House of Representatives in 1972 into what should be done about the Great Barrier Reef the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act came into force during the term of the Labor Government in 1 975 with the support of the then Opposition. All that the Government seeks to do by this Bill is to make a few small amendments to the Act to streamline it and to make the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority more effective. The only matter about which  Senator Georges  and apparently the Opposition are concerned relates to the position of  Chairman  of the Authority. The Government's position has been explained in the second reading speech and also in the findings of the House of Representatives Legislation Committee which considered the legislation. There was no debate in the other place. The Committee report was accepted and the legislation was passed in the other place without comment. One can see from the report that the explanations for the proposed amendments are quite justifiable and feasible. I cannot see the ramifications that  Senator Georges  says he sees in clause 3. Let us face it, if we have a  chairman  who is responsible for looking after this marine park and for all the interests which may be involved then it would be much better to have as  chairman  someone who could talk to these people, combine all the interests, coordinate all the thinking and use the professional expertise which is available to the Authority to perform the technical tasks. 
It also seems to me that  Senator Georges  is a bit concerned about what might happen if the three-mile limit jurisdiction is returned to the Queensland Government. One would imagine that  Senator Georges  had resigned himself to the fact that Joh Bjelke-Peterson, who is now aged about 65, will be the Premier of Queensland for the next 20 years. 
-The honourable senator is more or less saying that. After all, if control over the three-mile limit were handed back to Queensland tomorrow it would take years before all the machinery could be worked out, including approval by the Authority and the Federal Government to continue drilling. I am very pleased to think that  Senator Georges  maintains that  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  will be the Premier of Queensland for a long time to come. It also interests me to think that  Senator Georges  has no faith in the electors of Queensland being able to look after the interests of the Great Barrier Reef. He thinks that the electors of Australia, including those way over on the other side in Western Australia have more interest in the Barrier Reef than the electors of Queensland. Irrespective of who looks after the interests of those three miles, whether it is Bjelke-Petersen or a Labor Party which is in Government, I am sure that the electors of Queensland and the Government of the day will ensure that the Barrier Reef is protected. There is an attitude that we should not have any commercial development whatsoever on the Barrier Reef or anywhere near it, that it should be a reserve where no one can go and there should be a ban on the area. 
That is more or less what the honourable senator is saying. He has said that he is disturbed about all the commercial interests that might start on the Barrier Reef. I suggest that very few people in Australia today would have seen the Barrier Reef if it had not been for commercial development on places like Green Island off Cairns, all the other islands off Mackay and Heron Island and others where, under controlled development, tourists are able to go on conducted tours. This prevents the robbing of shells and the disturbing of marine life. This is the best way to handle the situation rather that letting people go out on to the reef in their own little boats. I do not know who would be able to patrol the areas because we do not have enough patrol boats to look after fishing vessels let alone the thousands of canoes and little motor boats that might be rushing out to the Reef. It is people in these boats who do the damage. I think the more controlled tourism that we have on the Great Barrier reef the more Australians and overseas visitors will see for themselves this wonder of the world. It is not much good having this Reef and saying that it is a wonderful sight if we do not allow anyone to see it. I believe that reasonable development on the Barrier Reef should be allowed to proceed, provided it is under complete control to ensure that there is no chance of pollution or disruption to the ecology of the area.  Senator Georges  mentioned the crown-of-thorns starfish. With the establishment of the Australian Institute of Marine Science at Townsville there is no doubt that in the years to come the problems associated with the crownof.thorns which, after all, is just one of those biological things that happen every so many years-- 
If  Senator Georges  goes out to the Reef and traces where the crown.ofthorns has been in the last five or six years he will see that the regrowth is twice as good as it was before. If he goes to Port Douglas or any of those places and talks to the people who go to the Reef often, particularly the fishermen, they will tell him what has happened over the years. In any event the Institute of Marine Science at Townsville will carry out the necessary research to ensure that problems such as the crownof.thorns starfish will be controlled in future. 
As I said earlier, I welcome these changes to the Act. They are only minor changes to an Act that was brought down by the Labor Government. The views expressed by  Senator Georges  and apparently by some members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation to the effect that we are going to throw away the Great Barrier Reef, that there is an ulterior motive behind all these changes, minor as they are, and that eventually we will allow indiscriminate oil drilling on the Reef with no controls, are, of course, absolute nonsense.  Senator Georges  should be aware that the people of Queensland would not allow indiscriminate drilling on the Reef. 
I would not say that. Not everyone is opposed to development of any kind. If it can be proved that drilling can be done without damaging the Reef, I am sure that the majority of people, even Queenslanders, would agree that it should be allowed. We cannot stop development but we must make sure that no damage whatsoever will be done to the Reef before any of that sort of drilling is allowed.  Senator Georges  referred to previous drilling on the Reef. I believe that once all the dust cleared and we read the full reports of what happened at Repulse Bay, with the tides and what have you, we saw that there was no danger whatsoever to the Reef from that drilling. It would all have been in-shore drilling anyway. However, this is what happens when people become involved in emotional issues and allow the facts to be clouded. There is no question that in the future we will see oil rigs at the top end of the Great Barrier Reef, particularly near Papua New Guinea, even if they are only oil rigs allowed there by the Papua New Guinea Government. They must have just as much effect on the Reef, if drilling does affect it, as anything that happens within the three-mile limit of the Queensland coast. I want to assure  Senator Georges,  who is concerned about the appointment of the  Chairman,  that I certainly have no interest in the job and am not looking for it. I am quite sure that whoever the Government appoints will be someone who will be able to carry out those responsibilities efficiently and effectively. 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee D and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister for Health aware of media reports that a super-international horse race is being planned for Flemington in early 1980, in which overseas horses are expected to take part? Has the Department of Health been contacted on this matter in respect to Australia's quarantine laws? If so, what is the Government's attitude? 
-Has the Minister for Science and the Environment seen an article in the Press indicating that the Queensland Government has decided to delay for as long as possible the compulsory use of the metric system in advertisements for food and household items? Can the Minister tell the Senate whether the Federal Government intends to persevere with its metric conversion program so far as the advertising of consumer goods is concerned? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. What is the present situation in respect of the export of meat products to Iran, with particular reference to frozen or chilled beef shipments and the trade in mutton? Also, what is the situation in respect of live sheep exports? 
We have had quite an interesting debate so far. When I was handed the Order of Business sheet which stated that there was to be an urgency motion on the failure of the Government adequately to ensure and supervise the proper administration and distribution of finance to rural industry I thought that I would have a very big area in which to work. But, having listened to the three speakers in this debate from the Opposition side I realise that it is quite obvious that this is purely a vehicle, by bringing the matter into the Federal ambit, for muck-raking for political purposes as far as a particular family in Victoria is concerned. 
I would like to reply to a few of the matters raised by the three Opposition speakers. For instance,  Senator Walsh  made great play of the fact that one of the  Mr Beggs  had stated that the property is almost back on its feet. He then assumed that the family did not need the loan and could pay it back. The purposes for which this loan was received were to repair 40 miles of fencing and to replace 2,500 head of stud stock. Obviously, the money was spent for those purposes and to get the property back into going order. How can the loan be repayed until such time as there is income from those sheep? As far as I am concerned, this demonstrates the attitude and the thinking of the Australian Labor Party towards the primary industries.  Senator Evans  carried on with inferences and innuendoes about what the Act says but did not give one instance of a breach of the Federal Act. When replying to  Senator Thomas,  Sentor Button's only mention of matters which really come into rural financing was his reference to the fact that farmers are paying more for petrol now than they were some years ago. He did not state that everyone in Australia and in the world is paying more for petrol now than was paid two years ago. But we should remember that, before the Labor Government came to office in 1972, farmers and the ordinary people of the outback did not have to pay much more for petrol than people in the city paid for it. That is the most important aspect. When we get down to tin tacks, we know that we have reinstated the petrol price equalisation scheme so that the people in the outback, as you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  would be well aware, can have their petrol at something like the price at which it is provided to people in the more fortunate city areas. 
I will tell the honourable senator why rural petrol prices should be equal to city prices. Most of the outback of Australia includes primary industries and mining industries which have to sell their products on the world market. They have to produce in an Australian cost structure which is a darn sight higher than the cost structure of any other markets of the world. Such schemes provided as compensation for the high protection afforded to manufacturing and other secondary industries in this country. They are not just handouts, as  Senator Chipp  might think. 
Because if we hunt everybody out of the outback, we will have no-one producing the export income of this country. Let us face it: A nation is like a family. The breadwinner of a family determines the standard of living of the family and the breadwinner of this nation determines the standard of living of this nation. Whether the honourable senator believes it or not, the breadwinner of this nation is the export industries. 
When we start to deal with the management of finance for rural industry, I think it is pertinent to look at some of the things that were done during the period of the Labor Government. If honourable senators opposite want to attack our management of finance for rural industry, I think it is important that their performance between 1972 and 1975 be put on the record. Let us face it: If rural industry is prosperous there is no great need for finance other than that available in the market place. But when rural industries, and particularly export industries, are in difficulties, massive forms of assistance are required. Governments have very little control over the price received by primary industries for export goods. Practically the only influence they can have on the price received for export goods is through the value of the Australian dollar compared with the value of the currency of other countries. During the period of which I have spoken, Labor had a very shameful record because we saw one revaluation after another and the Australian currency had a higher value than it should have had. This had a tremendous effect on the income of primary industry. 
The important factor on which governments have not had a lot of influence is farm costs. It is in this area that the performance of the Labor Government was so shameful. First of all, during that three year period inflation increased by 50 per cent and, in some cases, by up to 100 per cent. As a result of inflation during that period, farm costs increased by $ 1,400m. There is no doubt that, if farm costs increase by 50 per cent, 80 per cent or even up to 100 per cent, profitability will be reduced tremendously. The raging inflation that the Labor Government allowed to continue in this country was a major cause of bringing the rural industries to their knees. I commented earlier that rural industries are given assistance as compensation for the high protection afforded to many manufacturing industries. The rural industries have to live with the fact that, because all the machinery that is required to run a property is bought on the local market and cannot be bought overseas as a result of tariff barriers, and so on, their products are less competitive overseas. 
The Labor Government abolished the superphosphate fertiliser bounty. It also abolished the fuel equalisation scheme which I mentioned earlier. All these things added to the costs of primary producers. Millions of dollars were added to farmers' tax payments because income tax scales were changed. This particularly affected those farmers who were concerned with averaging provisions and the very necessary depreciation allowances for such things as water conservation. That is why by the end of 1975 we were in this mess and primary industry had to be assisted. Of course, this Government came to the rescue and has been able to assist primary industry to such an extent that nearly every primary industry in this country today is reaching a state of viability. 
The sugar industry is one which is going through difficult times because of overseas prices which are out of the control of this Government and the honourable senator knows it as well as I do. The International Sugar Agreement is out of the control of this Government which has done its best to ensure that the Agreement is brought to fruition. The Bureau of Agricultural Economics had to update its recent forecast that primary industry incomes would go up by about 50 or 60 per cent. The other day it was forecast that they would go up by 80 per cent in the next year. All the problems that beset rural industries between 1972 and 1975 are now starting to diminish. I am quite certain that despite the grandstanding by the Opposition today in order to bring attention to one family in Victoria, the primary producers of this country will never forget what the Australian Labor Party did to them between 1972 and 1975. I think that the Senate and the people of Australia have heard enough of this debate, so I move: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the initiatives taken in the United Nations to stamp out the evil practice of hijacking of aircraft and that body's request for all nations to co-operate to that end, I ask the Minister: What steps is the Government taking to prevent a recurrence of what is, in effect, the hijacking of a Malaysian aircraft in Sydney? Is it a fact that the Malaysian workers involved in the recent incident were jailed not for industrial action but for the sabotage of aircraft which, if it had not been detected, could have caused the loss of many lives? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry aware of a report that Malta is discontinuing its meat imports from Australia and New Zealand and is placing future orders with the European Economic Community countries? It was stated that this change was made for economic reasons. Is this another example of the EEC interfering in bilateral trade arrangements in order to dump highly subsidised primary products on the world markets? Furthermore, what economic pressure did the EEC use to bring about this change? 
-Last week I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry a question in regard to a Press report that Malta had cancelled meat imports from Australia. Can the Minister inform the Senate whether the Government has received further information which would clarify the situation? 
The rights of Aboriginals seems to be the subject of continual debate in this place. One wonders about the motives of the Opposition in bringing forward this subject every now and again. If it is not raising matters concerning Aboriginal settlements in Queensland it is talking about the land rights of Aborigines in the Northern Territory. 
I do not know what you are because if you had the interests of the Aboriginals at heart you would not be creating all this divisiveness within the community by continually stirring up these problems. 
You can say what we do.  Senator Keeffe  has been around enough of his State of Queensland to know that there is a growing white backlash against what is going on in the Aboriginal community. This is to be deplored because I believe that most Australians-- 
I find that in a great number of your supporters too,  Senator Keeffe. 
I notice that in some places they talk to me more than to you. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has answered all questions so far as the motion before the Chair is concerned and there is nothing left for me to reply to. I go to the general question mentioned by  Senator Cavanagh  today which has been mentioned many times in this place. It is the alteration to the Constitution way back in about 1 966. 
-Thank you. I know you have all the facts. Prior to the alteration of the constitution in 1967, section 51 read as follows: 
The Parliament shall, subject to this Constitution, have power to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Commonwealth with respect to . . . 
At that time placitum (xxvi) read: 
The people of any race, other than the Aboriginal race in any State, for whom it is deemed necessary to make special laws: 
That was deleted. At that referendum people voted for the Commonwealth to be able to make laws with respect to people of any race. It was not put to the people that large sections of 
Australia's land mass  should be alienated for special groups, whether they are Aboriginals or of any other race. Are honourable senators opposite suggesting that people of another race should be given large tracts of land? 
It is not a lot of rubbish, it is a fact. If that question is returned to the people now you may receive a different answer. The Opposition has accused the Government and the Minister of not carrying out its obligations. They have been carried out. What we have to do is to ensure that the land rights legislation which has been enacted by the Parliament- irrespective of whether the Government is right or wrong in our eyes or your eyes- is carried out for the benefit of the Aboriginal people. If it was not for all the stirrers who have been interfering - 
-Mostly the Labor Party people. You know better than I do who they are; they have stirred up all the people. There is no doubt that if the Commonwealth Government, the Northern Territory Government, the mining interests and the Aboriginalsthe Aboriginal traditional owners in particularcould be left alone to make arrangements in respect of compensation and royalties, there would not be any problem. 
-Senator Georges should realise that there are 14 million people in this country. 
-There are 14-odd million people who do not enjoy certain privileges that we have given to the Aboriginal people. 
If you look at the land you will see that those who have freehold title to the surface area do not have title to the minerals beneath the surface, except in Western Australia. We have given the Aboriginals the opportunity to obtain royalties and what have you for the minerals that are below the surface. Fourteen million other Australians do not have that privilege. Therefore, this Government is not acting against the interest of the Aboriginals. A lot of people in the community resent that particular privilege which has been given to a small section of the Australian community. I have always regarded Aboriginals as being Australians with all the rights and privileges of Australians, and with the responsibilities that go with the citizenship of this country. I do not regard them as something separate, as the Labor Party obviously does. 
Of course you do. Your statement with regard to the Aboriginals is that they are something different from the rest of us. That is not what most good thinking Australians believe. The Government has honoured its undertakings so far as the traditional owners are concerned, despite the doubts that certain members of the Labor Party have expressed.  Senator Chaney  has stated that any projected amendments to land rights legislation will not alter the real text and consideration of that legislation; it is to facilitate the workings of that legislation, particularly the negotiations between mining companies and Aboriginal land councils. A great number of difficulties has been experienced over the last year with respect to uranium mining. 
The Government understands why the Labor Party wants to gum up the works to stop agreement being reached between Aboriginals and the mining companies. The Labor Party wants the uranium left in the ground. Therefore its interest is not concerned with the royalties to be paid to the Aboriginals but with the fact that it does not want the Aboriginals to have any royalties at all. The Labor Party does not want the uranium mined. In that context it does not have any interest in the Aboriginal people. What is the Labor Party's view as to what constitutes the best interests of the Aboriginal people? Surely if the Aboriginal people are left to negotiate with either mining companies or with governments with respect to land or anything else, they are the best people to judge what is in their best interests, and not stirrers who go in to try to influence them, to bewilder them, and to draw red herrings across the trail. That happened in the Ranger negotiations with the mining companies. It was not until those stirrers were heaved out of the area that the land councils were able to get into decent discussions with the mining interests. They came up with an agreement that is certainly in their interests. It allowed the mining companies to proceed with the progress and development of this nation. 
Obviously the Labor Party has the same attitude to the mining industry as it has to any other industry, particularly our export industries. It does not want them. They are a damn nuisance in the community. However, we all know that the wealth and standards of this nation are decided by its export industries. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  There is no substance to the point of order. I am sure that  Senator Maunsell  will relate his remarks to the subject matter of the debate. 
I am relating my remarks to the mining industries, which the Labor Party is always attacking, despite the fact that they bring so much wealth to and provide so much employment for this nation. As I said in a debate on another subject, the standard of living of a family is determined by the income of the bread winner. The standard of living of a nation is determined by its bread winners, which are the export industries. For the life of me I cannot understand why the Labor Party is always rubbishing export industries, particularly the mining industry. I suggest that the best interests of this nation will be served if we assist the export industries of this country particularly the mining industries. In the Northern Territory where Aboriginals are concerned we should allow the mining companies and the Aboriginals quietly to negotiate rather than have the histrionics from members of the Labor Party and other people in the community who are seeking publicity. All that this will achieve is a divisive approach which will hold-up the negotiations. This will not be in the main interests of Aboriginal people. 
Ordinary Aborigines in north Queenslandparticularly Torres Strait islanders- are sick to death of all the stirrers around the place. It is amazing how many of them who have followed the Mickey Millers and the rest of the stirrers in the community have said: 'We realise that the best interests of our people lie in going along quietly, particularly with you people who are certainly doing something for us, and not just rabble-rousing and so forth'. There is no question in my mind as to whether we should reject this motion. It is without foundation. The Minister has replied to all the accusations made and I believe that it is time we got on with the business of running this Senate. 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications inform the House whether the Channel 9 group is prepared to provide the cricket broadcasts free of charge to the Australian Broadcasting Commission for those areas not covered by commercial television stations? If so, what is the cost involved and what are the technical difficulties in preventing the people of the outback from receiving a fair go with the viewing of major sporting events? Is the Minister aware that the reputation of the ABC as a truly national entity in the area of television and radio is under severe test by the general public? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. In view of the sharp increases that have been experienced lately in the price of aviation fuel and the prospect of these rises continuing in the future, has the Government any plans to extend refining facilities for the local production of aviation fuel from either indigenous or imported crude oil? 
-I would like to add my support to the motion. I had a long association with  Sir Charles.  He was a very great supporter of our party in Queensland, and even when he left this Parliament, he continued his association with the party. He was always very helpful to everyone within the party. As other honourable senators have said, he was highly regarded by most people in Queensland, not only in the Parliament but outside it, and in particular by the primary producers.  His  integrity and determination were well known and I suppose that those qualities were evident when he entered this Parliament. That was in 1943 when things were not running too well for the antiLabor parties in Australia. On that occasion Artie Fadden organised the anti-Labor parties in Queensland into one group. On almost the same day the Country Party started up in the bush. Charlie Adermann was its first candidate. He won the seat of Maranoa. He was the only one in the anti-Labor forces to win a seat in the 1 943 election. 
When he came to Canberra, at the first party meeting he challenged Artie Fadden 's right to stand as leader of the party. That action was typical of  Sir Charles  Adermann. I extend my personal sympathy to Lady Adermann and members of his family. We trust that in their sad bereavement on this occasion they will recall the fine qualities that  Sir Charles  had and the work that he has done for this nation. 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D on the particulars of proposed additional expenditure for the year 1978-79, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What is the present situation regarding the confiscation and sale of Taiwanese fishing trawlers caught poaching in the waters of the Great Barrier Reef? Has the Government officially protested recently to the Taiwanese Government about this illegal fishing? If so, what has been the response from the Taiwanese Government? 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee D and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs seen a report in the Press supporting previous accusations that the Soviet Union, through Swiss agents, has been buying large quantities of chrome from Rhodesia and reselling it to the United States at a considerable profit? In view of the fact that United Nations sanctions have been ignored almost entirely by the major powers, will the Minister ask the Foreign Minister to initiate moves in the United Nations to have these sanctions lifted, as they represent little more than a joke? 
During consideration of the estimates of the Department of the Australian Capital Territory by Estimates Committee D a great deal of confusion occurred in regard to the responsibility of the 
Canberra Showground Trust. Officers of the Department were unable to explain to the Committee and indeed to the Auditor-General the estimates of receipts and expenditure of that body satisfactorily. We do not say that it is the fault of the officers concerned, but the way this trust has been set up. For that reason we have suggested that the matter be investigated by a Senate committee. Therefore I move: 
That the Committee, having considered the report of Estimates Committee D, recommends that the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: The Canberra Showground Trust. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Because cattle properties in northern Australia rely heavily on helicopters to muster cattle for market and because one could expect people in remote areas to be last on the list to receive fuel when a shortage occurs, will the Minister request the oil  companies to ensure that adequate supplies of aviation gasolene are made available to this important export industry, particularly over the next few months? 
Is the Minister for Science and the Environment aware that a solar energy power station is to be set up under an agreement between the Australian National University and the New South Wales Government? What form will the plant take? When will it be completed? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources. If the United States Congress passes the Ways and Means Committee's recommendation that United States beef imports be restricted to 1 .2 billion lb, does this mean that the multilateral trade negotiations agreement entered into by  Mr Anthony  and the United States Administration will have to be renegotiated? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources seen a statement by the Saskatchewan Minister for Mineral Resources, in which he advocated the rapid development of the newly discovered uranium deposits in that province, saying: 'If we don't provide it you're going to get some banana-State government supplying it that doesn't have a non-proliferation agreement'? What effect will that development have on sales of Australian uranium in future years? Have the uranium producers in Australia sufficient long term contracts to safeguard our export situation, or have we, through procrastination and the actions of the knockers, lost for this country millions of dollars of export income? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry whether during the forthcoming visit of the British Minister,  Mrs Margaret  Thatcher, he will ensure that the agricultural policies of the European Common Market are once again the subject of a strong protest. I also ask that particular emphasis be given to the refusal of the European Economic Community to sign the International Sugar Agreement and to the dumping by the EEC of highly subsidised sugar on Australia's traditional markets. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware of problems associated with the distribution of distillate in far north Queensland because farmers are stockpiling to prepare for any shortage in the future? As on-farm storage is the most advantageous way to hold stocks for an emergency, will the Government ask the oil companies to ensure that adequate supplies are made available to this area so that remote cattle properties and communities associated with them will be able to obtain their supplies prior to the onset of the wet season? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for National Development aware that fishing vessels at Innisfail and Cooktown are tied up because of a lack of distillate? Additional supplies have been sent to the Cairns area to overcome shortages in the sugar industry. Could some of the additional stocks be diverted to enable the fishing industry in outlying places such as Cooktown to continue operations? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. As the amount of distillate actually delivered to all the oil companies in Cairns over the past few months was considerably less than the assessed requirements for the area and less than the amount used last year, will the Minister agree that the problem is not one of excessive stockpiling by farmers, as the oil companies allege, but is the result of a breakdown in distribution by some of these companies? Because the situation is still critical, particularly in the outback, and will not be resolved by the amounts scheduled to arrive by the end of November, will the Minister as a matter of urgency request the oil companies to secure immediately for Cairns an additional shipment of distillate from seas, preferably from those areas which supply New Guinea, Weipa, the Torres Strait and Darwin? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: What is the present position in respect of the United States Congress ratifying the International Sugar Agreement? 
Will the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry give urgent consideration to the protection of the natural breeding grounds of the black marlin when final negotiations take place with the Japanese in respect of long line fishing off the north Queensland coast? 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1979-80 and the departmental expenditure under the Advance to the Minister for Finance 1978- 79 together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources aware that extraction costs of uranium in Australia are lower than those of most of our known resources? For example, it is said that at $30 per lb we have 25 per cent of the world 's reserves, but that at $50 per lb our share drops to 8 per cent and at $100 per lb our share is almost negligible because uranium can be extracted from the sea for less. As the price of the fuel plays an important part in whether nations turn to the use of dangerous plutonium, will the Minister agree that this nation has a responsibility to supply the world with uranium at a reasonable price to ensure that the use of breeder reactors is kept to a minimum? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry: What is the present position in relation to plague locust hatchings in New South Wales and southern Queensland? Does the Australian Plague Locust Commission have the Army detachment under its direction? What future activities are planned for the Australian Plague Locust Commission? 
-by leave- I table additional information received by Estimates Committee D and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I wish briefly to rebut some of the arguments that have been put by  Senator Walsh.  (Quorum formed)  I thank  Senator Georges  for organising an audience for me. 
-I notice that he did not do it for  Senator Walsh.  It may be that he did not think his speeches are worth listening to. I want to answer some of  Senator Walsh's  statements. I think that we all know only too well that the Industries Assistance Commission was set up by Labor Government to pass the buck, so to speak, to pass its responsibilities to primary industry. Everyone knows that within a few months of the Labor Government's coming into office, many of the advantages that had been given to primary industry were taken away. Those advantages were given for the purpose of - 
I can name plenty of them, including all the depreciation allowances, the uniform petrol price - 
-by leave- I table additional information received by 
Senate Estimates Committee D and seek leave to have it incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware that it has become a standard practice of large professional sporting bodies in Australia to demand large sums of money, which may be regarded as unearned income, for exclusive television rights to sporting events? Is the Minister also aware that because of this practice many thousands of people who have little opportunity to watch these events live because of remoteness are excluded from watching them on television if the successful tenderer for television rights has limited telecasting facilities? 
Will the Minister ask the Government to give consideration to amending the Broadcasting and Television Act to enable the Australian Broadcasting Commission to participate equally with any of the commercial telecasters in the coverage of national events, particularly as the blacking out of the Melbourne Cup is the last straw as far as country people are concerned? 
 I ask the Attorney-General whether a decision has been made to appoint a Family Court judge who will be permanently based in Townsville. If so, when is the appointment likely to be made? 
As the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  said when commencing his speech, the whole of the Opposition's argument is based on its hatred of profits and its obsession with price control.  Senator Robertson  said that they are all socialists on that side of the House, so I suppose that explains it. Despite what  Senator Robertson  and other speakers on the Opposition side have said about justification of price rises, this matter of public importance concerns: 'The failure of the Government to use the Prices Justification Tribunal to control rising prices'. There is no question as to what is the Opposition's view of" the Prices Justification Tribunal or of some other tribunal. As I said earlier, it is quite obvious, on listening to the previous speakers, that the Opposition's obsession with price control and its hatred of profits is behind the whole of its argument. 
It is interesting to note that  Senator Robertson  got a little confused when he talked about what  Senator Durack  had said earlier. He said that  Senator Durack  blamed the Tribunal for rising inflation. The fact of the matter is that prior to the Whitlam Government coming to power the consumer price index increased at an average annual rate of about 6 per cent. But once the policies of the Labor Government took off- that was when the Prices Justification Tribunal was supposed to have all the teeth which the Australian Labor Party wants to see returned to it- the CPI rose on average in 1 973-74 by nearly 1 3 per cent and in 1 974-75 by 1 6 per cent. 

 - Senator Coleman had her time to speak. In 1975-76 the increase was coming back towards 1 3 per cent. Now that the Government has extracted all the teeth from the Prices Justification Tribunal, what has happened to the CPI? In 1977-78 the increase dropped back to 9.5 per cent and in 1978-79 it dropped back to 8.2 percent. 
-The honourable senator is blaming the PJT and claiming that because it has no teeth there has been an increase in the CPI. Let us get back to the argument that the Opposition is always putting forward in its hatred of the profit motive. There is no question that under the free enterprise system it is necessary to have high profits because, to start with, a profitable organisation will bring down costs. 
-The honourable senator talks about equitable profits. I ask her to let me finish my speech.  (Quorum formed).  It is unfortunate that  Senator Coleman,  who called for a quorum, could not entice any more of her colleagues into the House. As  Senator Robertson  said, they are all socialists. Certainly they would not want to be listening to what I have to say. 
Let me get back to what I was saying earlier about the Opposition's hatred of the profit motive. Efficient business enterprises require high profits. Let us face it; capital increases and expansion in industry require profits. At least the profits have to exceed what can be obtained by shareholders or other people in the ordinary money markets and the revenue-earning avenues such as interest paid by financial institutions. Competition in the market place is the best means of halting rising prices; there is no question about it. Highly profitable businesses using modern and efficient equipment and techniques bring down prices. In order to increase turnover, these successful businesses reduce prices. Competitors who want to stay in business have to become efficient themselves. 
Price fixing is the worst means of controlling prices. The tendency is that businesses which have to justify their profits or prices allow inefficiency to take over. The Opposition always wants a ceiling on prices to push profits down, but it adopts the opposite view in its attitude towards labour. It insists on a fixed wage irrespective of the work performed. Piece-work, which is one of the best means of getting efficiency into industry, is completely frowned upon by the Opposition except in those industries where it cannot do anything about it. Piece-work has been very effective in keeping down prices. The remuneration is based on the work performed. The Labor Party is also possessed with dargs. It wants to restrict what anyone can do but never wants to put restrictions on wages. In other words, the difference between the value of the work performed and the wages received is never taken into consideration. 
The Prices Justification Tribunal, in its present role, is not chasing every price increase of every business, as it was before. In its first year of operation I think it had to make 7,000 investigations. We are now ensuring that the Tribunal inquiries into price increases which may not be justified. The Tribunal is not now making 7,000 inquiries or chasing up, as  Senator Archer  said, the price of a box of matches. As far as I am concerned, this debate has been a waste of time. As was said earlier, the debate has been introduced purely because of the Opposition's obsession with price control and its obsession against profits. It has not brought forward any argument whatsoever to dismiss the fact that the consumer price index increased during the time that the Tribunal had teeth. The fact that the CPI rose in those early days and has come down when the Tribunal supposedly has lost its teeth more or less negates the complete argument put forward by the Opposition. I move: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-by leave- I table additional information which has been received by Estimates Committee D and seek leave for it to be incorporated in the Hansard record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. What is the present situation in respect of exports to Iran, particularly meat, livestock and wheat exports, with regard to, firstly, problems associated with discharging cargo at Iranian ports and, secondly, payment for those exports, bearing in mind the United 
States of America's decision to freeze Iranian investments in that country? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen a report that Thailand is prepared to take half a million Kampuchean refugees and to set up camps for them? As a positive and practical step will the Government consider offering to the Thai Government aid in the form of food for these people? Will the Government also consider asking other interested governments to join in making an offer to the Thai Government of assistance for this worthy cause? 
-by leave- I table further additional information received by Estimates Committee D. I seek leave for it to be incorporated in the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. 
Leave granted. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. With two leading international cricket teams, England and the West Indies, in Australia for the current season and Australia back to full strength, would the Minister agree that this could be the most interesting cricket season for many years? Will the Minister ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to make every endeavour to ensure that the people of the outback are not deprived of watching these important matches on television? 
